Documerit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
=iA 3Z277- -72
Rep,rt No. 8233-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
MAY 28, 1990
LA1 Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
lhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oMc6l duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori=ton



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                       -   Brazilian Nc J Cruzado (NCz$)
NCz$1.O0                            -   100 centavos
US$1.00                             -   NCz$l.l0 1/
NCz$l.00                                US$0.909
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
kW (kilowatt)                       -   1,000 W (Watts)
MW (Megawatt)                           1,000 kW
kWh (kilowatt hour)                 .   1,000 Wh (Watt hour)
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                     1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)                       .   1,000 V (Volts)
kVA (kilovolt-ampere)               =   1,000 VA (Volt-amperes)
T.o.e. (Ton. of oil equivalent)   -   3,560 kWh (35% efficiency)
Bbl (barrel of oil)                 =   0.15 T.o.e.
MVAr (Megavar)                      .   1,000,000 VAr (reactive volt-amperes)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1! Exchange rate prevailing in May 1989 was used for all calculations in
this report. Since then, the Cruzado has been devalued several times,
and in March 16, 1990 it was renamed the cruzeiro- The rate of
exchange on March 15, 1990 was US$1.00 = Cr$38.40.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYHS
BNDES              Banco Nacional do  Desenvolvimento (National Development
Bank)
CEMIG              Companhia  Energitica  de Minas  Gerais  (Minas  Gerais
state-owned utility)
CERJ               Companhia de Eletricidade  do  Estado  de Rio de Janeiro
(Rio de Janeiro state-owned utility)
CESP               Companhia Energetica de sao Paulo (Sao Paulo state-owned
utility)
CHESF              Companhia Hidro-Eletrica de Sao Francisco
(ELETROBRAS subsidiary in charge of generation and
transmission in the North-East)
CIER               Regional Interconnection Commission
CNE                Commissao   Nacional   de   Energia   (National   Energy
Commission)
CNP                Comissao  Nacional   de   Petr6leo  (National  Petroleum
Committee)
COELBA             Companhia  Energdtica   da   Bahia   (Bahia  state-owned
utility)
CONPET             Conservation and Preservation  of  Production and Use of
Petroleum Products
CONSERVE           Energy Conservation Fund
COPEL              Companhia  Paranaense  de  Energia  (Parana  state-owned
utility)
CPFL               Companhia Paulista de Forga e Luz (SAo Paulo state-owned
utility)
DNAEE              Departamento  Nacional  de   Aguas  e  Energia  Eletrica
(National Department of Water and Electric Energy,
electric sector regulatory agency)
DRELOR             Distribution Network  Rehabilitation  and Loss Reduction
Program
ELETROBRAS         Centrais  Eletricas  Brasileiras,  S.A. (Federally-owned
electric utility holding company)
ELETRONORTE        Centrais Fletricas do Norte do Brasil, S.A.
(ELETROBRAS subsidiary in charge of generation and
transmission in the North)
ELETROPAULO        Eletricidade  de  Sao   Paulo   (Sao  Paulo  state-owned
utility)
ELETROSUL          Centrais ElEtricas  do  Sul  do  Brasil S.A. (ELETROBRAS
subsidiary in charge of generation and transmission in
the South)
EMP                Master Plan for  Environmental Conservation and Recovery
in the Works and Services of the Electric Power Sector
ESCELSA            Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas, S.A.
(ELETROBRAS subsidiary in charge of distribution in
state of Espirito Santo)
ESIS               Energy Strategy and Issues Study
FND                Fundo Nacional de  Desenvolvimento (National Development
Fund)
FURNAS             Centrais Eletricas Furnas, S.A.
(ELETROBRAS subsidiary in charge of generation and
transmission in the Southeast and Center-West)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GGF                Global Guarantee Fund
RV                 High Voltage
IESS               Integrated Energy Strategy Study
LIGHT              Light   Servi9os   de   Eletricidade   S.A.  (ELETROBRAS
subsidiary in charge of distribution in the city of Rio
de Janeiro).
LPG                Liquid Propane Gas
LRMC               Long Run Marginal Costs
MIC                Ministry of Industry and Commerce
M of I             Ministry of Infrastructure
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MME                Minist4rio das Minas  e  Energia  (Ministry of Mines and
Energy)
PECO               Program for Economizing Fuel
PETROBRAS          Petr6leos  Brasileiros  S.A.  (Federally-owned petroleum
company)
PROCEL             National Electric Energy Conservation Program
PRODEL             Voluntary Program to Economize Diesel and Lubricants
PROEN              Program to Rationlize Energy
PSRP               Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan
RAP                Rate Adjustment Plan
RENCOR             Reserva Nacioaal de Compensacao de Remunera9&o (National
Compensation Reserve for Remuneration)
REVISE             Revislo Institucional  do  Setor  Eletrico (Power Sector
institutional Structure and Policies Study)
RF                 Reversion Fund
RGF                Global Reversion Fund
RIMA               Relat6rio de  Impacto  do  Meio  Ambiente (Environmental
Impact Assessment Study)
SEAP               Secretaria de  Abastecimentos  a  Pregos (Secretariat of
Supplies and Prices)
SEPLAN             Secretaria do Planejamento (Secretariat of Planning)
SEST               Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais (Secretariat
for the Control of Public Enterprises)
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
/~~~~~~~
i



BMA21L
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE ENERGY AND kOWER SECTORS .................. . . ....... *......... 1
A.  Introduction ............... ............ ......  ........ ...I
B.  Energy Sector       ...    ..     ..................................... .1
Enorgy Resources .....   ............... ...........1.......
Energy Supply and Demand  . ... # ....   ................... 2
Energy Sector Investments ........................   ... .2
Energy Pricing   . . ..             ................................ 3
Institutional Structure ...................... ......... . 4
Energy Conservation ..................... ................  5
Environmental and Social Aspects in the Energy Sector....6
C.  Power Sector ..................................... 7
Power Sector Issues       ....   ....................... ..........   7
Organization    ......... # ......      ................... 7
Institutional Reform ..........      ........................ 8
Growth of Demand .    ................ .................... .9
System Expansion Planning ................................  9
Electricity Tariffs . ....       ............................... 10
Sector Financial Performance .............12.............. 12
Debt Compensations by the Government       .. .   15
Electric Energy Conservation .................. *#* ..... 16
Environmental Aspects ........................ ........... 16
D.  C-overnment Policy in the Energy Sector ................. 17
E.  The Bank's Role .....        ..    ...................  ........... 18
Bank  Strategy .........................................  la
Bank Lending and Sector Work    .    .8......................... l
The DRELOR Program       ....... ............................. 20
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal and an appraisal
mlssions which visited Brazil during June 1989 and September 1989
respectively. The appsaisal team comprised Messrs. Larrieu (Task Manager),
Vietti (Sr. Financial Analyst), Bates (Principal Economist), Velez
(Economist), Waldrop (Financial Analyst) and Osorio (Power Engineer).



Page No.
II.  THE BORROWER AND POWER MARKET ................................ .-21
A.  The Bo5rrower                    .         ................... 21
Iutroduction ............. .                                 .    21
Background                    .. ............... 21
Organization and Management    .. .21
Financing Role   .. ...                     . ................. 22
Planning and Budgeting. . .                                         22
Training and Staff Relations   ...22
Accounting and Auditing    .. .23
Prospective Beneficiaries.                           .     .        23
B.   The Power Market               ......................... 23
Historic Power Market.. . 23
Future Power Market   .                     .24
Transmission and Distribution Losses  . .25
III. THE PROJECT ............ ......................................... 26
A.  General Information ..... . . .26
Background   ..... .26
Project Objectives                   ...26
Project Description                 . . .27
Project Cost        .....       ......28
Project Financing .          . ..................................... 30
Legal Arrangements                       .        .       . ... 30
Financial Framework                . . .31
Beneficiaries                 ...34
ELETROBRAS. . .  35
Procurement                   . ..36
Disbursement    .. .39
Project Risks                 ...39
B. Transmission Component    ..40
Background    ..40
Criteria for Selecting Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects...40
Project Supervision and Implementation .41
Environmental Aspects .42
Least Cost Solution ..43
Economic Justification .43
C.  Demand Management and Conservation .44
Introduction                .. .44
Program Description .....45
Program Costs   .                        .46
Benefits and Justification   .                  .48
Return on Investment    .                    .48
Project Files   ...........                       .48
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....49



ANNEXS
Page No.
Annex 1.1 Gross Domestic Production of Primary Energy ............. 51
Annex 1.2 Gross Domestic Consumption of Primary Energy ............ 52
Annex 1.3  Electric Power Tariffs in Brazil           ..     53
Annex 2.1 Power Market Forecast              ...... .. 72
Annex 3.1  1990-93 Transmission/Substation Expansion Program ....... 77
Annex 3.2  Investment Program ...................................... 82
Annex 3.3  Rates Adjustment Plan (RAP) ............................. 87
Annex 3.4 Financial Covenants and Financial Performance Ratios .... 89
Annex 3.5 Key Indicators of Historic Financial Performance   . . 92
Annex 3.6 Power Sector Electricity Revenues          .. .           94
Annex 3.7 ELETROBRASs Historic and Forecast Statements      ..  97
Annex 3.8 Estimated Disbursement Schedule    .      ............... 101
Annex 3.9  Project Executing Body       .................... 102
Annex 3.10 Performance Indicators ................................. 103
Annex 3.11 Reporting Requirements ................................. 108
Annex 3.1' Economic Analysis ....    ............................. llO
Annex 3.13 Demand Management and Conservation Programs ............ 113
Annex 3.14 Project File .....................................     ....... 121
Map 21996 South-Southeast System-Lucation of Pro4ect
Map 21997 North-Northeast System-Location of Project



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Guarantors               Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:           ELETROBkAS and several  state and federal utilities
which wil' be selected in accordance vith agreed
technical and financial criter.L
Amounts                  US$385 million equivalent
Termss                  Repayment in  15  years,  including  five  years of
grace,  with  interest   at   the  Bank's  standard
variable rate.
Relendina Terms:         ELETROBRAS will retain US$30 million to finance the
National  Electric   Energy   Conservation  Program
(PROCEL), and will relend US$355 million to the
other beneficiaries under the same financial terms
and conditions as the Bank loan plus an snual
administration fee equivalent to one half of one
percent (1/2 of 1Z) on the corresponding amounts
disbursed and outstanding. The beneficiaries would
besr th* frreAgn exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Obiectives and
Descrintions           The proposed  loan  will  support  the Government's
efforts  to  assist   and  rehabilitate  the  power
sector, by reinforcing the priority given to:
(i) investments in new transmission systems to
reduce risks of power shortages and resultant
economic losses; (4i) energy demand management and
end-use conservation, which will permit deferring
capital investments in some generating schemes;
(iii)  operating  efficiency   by  reducing  system
losses through the rehabilitation of existing power
network-; and (iv) resolution of urgent tectoral,
institutional and  financial  issues.   The project
measures    would    complement    the    ccntinued
implementation   and   monitoring   of  sector-wide
conditionality  contained   in   the  Power  Sector
(Adjustment) Loan (2720-BR).



- ii -
The project comprises: (i) a time-slice (1990-93)
of the transmission investment and rehabilitation
programs of several power utilities, including
construction  of   H.V.   transmission   lines  and
installation  of  transformer   capacity  at  power
substations; and (ii) Part A (1990 & 1991) of
PROCEL  being  implemented   by  ELETROBRAS,  which
includes works (installation of more efficient
public lighting fixtures, loss reduction schemes),
studies (load management, system loss reduction,
improvement of efficiency in industrial processes)
and research (improvement of electrical equipment
performance, use of improved insulation materials
and construction techniques for building/houses).
The project would be executed under the supervision
of ELETROBRAS through a project implementation unit
which  would   review,   select   and monitor  the
execution  of  the   sector  utilities'  time-slice
program defined under adequate technical, financial
and institutional criteria.
Risks:                   The  transmission   component   faces   no  special
physical risks, as similar transmission -works have
been successfully completed in the past. The main
risk   derives    from    financial   difficulties:
electricity tariffs and other prices had been below
adequati levels.   Financial difficulties are being
addressed  through   specific  measures  (regarding
tariffs,  equity   contributions   and  borrowings)
associated  with   the   selected  power  utilities
financial programs, which are designed to improve
the utilities' financial  performance.   Failure to
implement such measures may adversely affect the
utilities' finances and may result in delays in the
execution of the proposed project. To reduce this
risk, agreement was reached with the Govermnent and
ELETROBRAS  that  as   condition  of  Bank's  Board
approval,    loan      effectiveness      and    loan
disbursements,  as   applicable,   specific  tariff
actions and financial 'measures based on the needs
derived  from  the   beneficiaries  investment  and
financial programs should have been implemented.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                             USS million
Local      Foreizn         Total
A. Transmission ProPram
ELETROBRAS Group
ELETROSUL                       174.8        116.5          291.3
LIGHT                           336.3        224.2          560.5
Sub-Total                     511.1        340.7         851.8
Maior State Utilities
CERJ                             11.4          7.6           19.0
CESP                            186.0        124.0          310.0
ELETROPAULO                     349.6        233.0          582.6
C'EMIG                          397.1        264.8          661.9
COPEL                           119.2         79.4          198.6
CPFL                             91.5         61.0          152.5
COELBA                          183.1        122.1          305.2
Sub-Total                   1,337.9        891.9       2,229.8
B.  PROCEL                         38.3         26.2           64.5
Total Base Cost               1,887.3      1,258.8       3,146.1
Physical Contingencies          184.9        123.3          308.2
Price Contingencies             209.8        141.6          351.4
Interest During                  -           46.21/         46.2
Construction
Total Investment              2,282.0      1,569.9       3.851.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ million
Bank FY         1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual           45.021   80.0   110.0    90.0    60.0
Cumulative      45.0    125.0   235.0   325.0   385.0
Rate of Return:          Over  liZ  rate  of  return  (estimated  to  be the
opportunity cost of capital in Brazil) on the
investment programs of each utility, using agreed
tariffs as a proxy measure of benefits.
11 Of which US$15.0 million to be financed by the Bank loan.
V Including initial deposit of US$35 million in the Special Account.



I.  THE ENERGY AND POVER SECTORS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Bank's strategy in the  energy  sector in Brazil is to support
the Government in moving towards economically efficient energy pricing and
investment  policy,  taking   into  account  environmental,  macroeconomic,
regional and social considerations (para. 1.47). Specific elements in this
general strategy are: (a) basing the energy investment program on a
realistic demand forecast and the least-cost method of supplying the
demand; (b) bringing energy prices closer to economic costs, especially at
the  regional  and   retail   levels;   (c)   strengthening  energy  sector
institutions, and improving coordination among them toward the effective
execution of an integrated national energy policy; (d) wider use of market-
based incentives; and (e) increasing participation of the private sector.
Energy development in Brazil must take place in a manner consistent with
sound environmental and natural resources marnagement.
1.02     To implement this strategy, it is necessary to address a number of
key policy issues, in the areas of pricing, investment, institutional
structure, demand management and conservatior, and the environment. Such
insues, including the macroeconomic linkages, can only be addressed at the
level of the energy sector as a whole, and clearly require a long-term
perspective. The Electricity Transmission and Conservation Project would
address an important subset of the above issues, viz. financial and
institutional matters and energy  conservation.    The remaining issues are
being dealt with by the Bank in other ongoing and future lending operations
and through energy sector  work.    On  the Brazilian side, the Government,
through the National Energy Commission (CNE),is carrying out the Integrated
Energy Strategy Study (IESS), under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank. The IESS is scheduled for completion in May, 1990 to serve as an
important input for energy policy-making by the new President. The IESS
has already provided a valuable focus for the Bank's continuing dialogue
with the Brazilian authorities on the full range of energy issues and
policy. The Bank will continue to closely monitor the satisfactory
execution of the IESS.
B. ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
1.03     Brazil  is  endowed   with   substantial  energy  resources,  both
renewable and nonrenewable. According to the National Energy Balance, as
prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure (M of I), formerly the Ministry
of Mines and Energy (MME), the proven energy resources in 1987 included:
petroleum, 352 million tons of oil equivalent (toe); natural gas, 96
million toe; coal, 6,604 million toe; hydroelectric power, 271 million toe
per year. There are also substantial deposits of shale gas, peat and
uranium, but their economic potential is far less.



1.04     In addition, a significant  proportion  of the bagasse produced by
the sugar industry is utilized in producing 'heat and electricity for its
own internal needs -- in its sugar and alcohol ditstillation processes -- a
surplus  exists  which  could   be   applied  to  cogeneration  and  public
electricity supply. The Bank is supporting the study of this option by
providing financial resources through the proposed loan under PROCEL.
Eneray SUDR1V and Demand
1.05     Data on primary energy  production  and censumption are in Annexes
1.1 and 1.2. Primary energy consumption in Brazil increased at 5.3Z per
annum from 1970 to 1987, rising from 75 to 181 million toe and essentially
keeping pace with the growth of GDP during the same period. During
1970-1979, the growth rate averaged 6.42 p.a., while GDP grew at 8.6?,
implying an apparent income elasticity of about 0.7Z. Between 1980 and
1987,  energy  consumption  and   GDP   increased   at  3?  and  3.1Z  p.a.
respectively, with a consequent increase in the apparent income elasticity
to a little over 1. However, the price of gasoline, alcohol, LPG, domestic
electricity and, for most of the period, industrial electricity rose more
slowly in the 1980s than in the 1970s or even declined in real terms.
1.06     Primary energy production expanded by  5.4?, rising from 57 to 144
million toe between 1970 and  1987.    Imported  energy as a ratio of total
domestic energy demand increased from 24Z in 1970 to 37? in 1979, declined
to 16? in 1985, and then rose again to 21? in 1987. Petroleum imports,
which were 340 million bpd in 1970, peaked at nearly 1 million bpd in 1979
and then fell to a little under 500,000 bpd by 1987. Dependence on the
Middle East for oil imports fell from over 90? in 1979 to 802 in 1987.
1,07     The increase in  primary  energy  production  during the 1970s was
provided mainly by hydropower and, to a lesser extent, coal and sugar cane.
Between 1980 and 1987, the contribution of petroleum and sugar cane
increased dramadAcally, although hydropower continued to meet a substantial
part of the growth in energy demand.   The relative shares of the different
energy sources in final primary energy consumption evolved as follows:
petroleum rose from 34? in 1970, to 43? in 1978, and then declined to 33X
in 1987; fuelwood diminished steadily from 432 in 1970 to 17? in 1987;
hydroelectricity rose from 16? in 1970 to 30t in 1987; sugar cane expanded
from 5? in 1970 to 11? in 1987; and coal and gas, while still comparatively
minor in the energy matrix, made impressive advances, from 3.1Z and 0.2?
respectively in 1970 to 5.5? and 2.2Z respectively in 1987.
Eneray Sector Investments
1.08     During the 1980s,  more  than  half  of  all Federal investment in
State-owned enterprises was in the energy sector -- Petr6leos Brasileiros
S.A.  (PETROBRAS)   (22Z),   and   Centrais   Eletricas  Brasileiras,  S.A.
(ELETROBRAS)  (35Z).    Total  annual  investment  by  PETROBRAS  has  been
US$1.9-2.4 billion during the past three years, well below the levels in
the early 1980s (US$3-4 billion). The bulk of this investment goes to oil
and gas exploration and production.   In  addition to financing all of this
investment from its own resources or fvom borrowing on its own account,
PETROBRAS made annual net transfers of revenues to the Government of



US$2.6-4.2  billion.    Total  annual  investment  in  the  electric  power
subsector averaged US$4-S  billion  for  most  of  1977-1987.   While gross
internal cash  generation  equalled  55-602  of  the subsector's investment
requirements, the level of debt service was high, resulting in negative net
earnings.   After  taking  into  account  the  subsector's  other financial
commitments, the Brazilian electric  power  subsector has probably received
net transfers of US$5-6 billioa from the public sector in the last two-
three years, a drain which has escalated rapidly in real terms since the
1970s.    The  energy  sector  i,  likely  to  cortinue  to  account  for a
significant part of Brazi;'s public investment, as energy demand and the
economy grow.
Energv Pricing
1.09     As a general principle, energy prices need to reflect more closely
their scarcity value  or  opportunity  costs.    For non-tradeable forms of
energy, this value is the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of supply,
including geographical differences, in order to encourage efficient inter-
fuel substitution -- which will reduce the overall costs of energy consumed
in the country -- and energy  conservation.   This principle may have to be
tempered to meet: (i) the basic needs of low-income households, especially
in poorer regions such as the Northeast; and (ii) sector financial and
cost-recovery objectives. Efficient pricing and investment policies would
improve resource allocation within the energy sector; strengthen public
sector management, and help the macroeconiomy in terms of public investment,
external debt and debt service, the public sector deficit, the balance of
trade, and inflation.
1.10     In the electric  power  subsector,  with  Bank support (e.g. under
Loan 1300-BR - Northeast Power Distribution) Brazil has made considerable
progress in formulating a marginal-cost based tariff structure. However,
the basic tariff is nationally uniform which implies for the interconnected
systems some economic cross-subsidies from the North and North-East to the
highe.-cost South and South-East regions.   A more critical issue on tariff
levels is a financial one, since the high inlebtedness of the sector has
sharply  reduced  its  potential   for  self-financing.    Furthermore,  in
financial terms, the cross-subsidies flow in the opposite direction.
Higher  tariff  levels  are   needed  to  increase  resource  mobilization,
alleviate serious financial shortages and reduce the impact on the public
sector deficit (see para.  1.08).    Finally,  it  can be observed that the
electricity tariff structure provides a minimum level of consumption at a
tariff which is affordable to low-income consumers. Additional details on
electricity pricing are in chapter III.
1.11     In the hydrocarbons subsector,  Brazil  has taken reasonable steps
to adjust the level of prices fcr petroleum products, even during periods
of high inflation. At present, the average domestic price of a composite
barrel of oil products is above the border parity equivalent (adjusting for
transport costs to  the  final  consumer).    Howaver,  this price level is
achieved mainly by a high gasoline price, which cross-subsidizes other
petroleum products and also alcohol.    Naphtha, LPG, fuel oil, alcohol and
kerosene are subsidized relative to their economic costs; and while diesel
and gasoline are priced above economic costs, the latter is over-priced



- 4 -
relative to the former, which has caused some undesirable inter-fuel
substitution. LPG is subsidized primarily because of its role in the
budget of low-income families, although the low price may also have
encouraged its (clandestine) substitution for gasoline, as a vehicle fuel.
1.12     Like electricity, petroleum product prices are subject to a system
of uniform national retail prices, but the negative impact on resource
allocation is mirimal: where the subsidies per unit of product are high,
the absolute consumption is low (principally in the North and Center-West),
more significantly, the tax element in petroleum products prices is low by
world standards -- around 1OZ of the average retail price on March 1, 1989.
The need for higher taxes should be reexamined in light of the Government's
fiscal deficit.
1.13     The high level of international  petroleum prices in the 1970s and
early 19808 led to a national strategy that emphasized -- through
investment and pricing policies -- increased energy self-sufficiency via
the development of domestic energy resources. As a result, the electricity
sector allocated more of its investment resources to hydroelectric, coal
and nuclear generation than would have been the case if the sector had
adopted strictly least-cost investment programs. The economic costs of the
alcohol program to the economy were particularly high, since the economic
cost of production exceeds the opportunity value of alcohol (measured by
the economic cost of gasoline). The annual subsidy to alcohol is estimated
on this basis to be in the order of US$1.25-1.5 billion.
Institutional Structure
1.14     Energy  planning,  decision-making  and  policy  implementation in
Brazil nave been characterized by a lack of coordination and clearly-
defined goals. Two of the major players in the energy sector are large and
powerful  public   enterprises,   ELETROBRAS   and   PETROBRAS,  under  the
jurisdiction of  the M  of  I.    At  the  same  time,  there are numerous
privately-owned companies or individual entrepreneurs in subsectors such as
fuelwood, coal and alcohol, which are subject to different or no central.
control.   The  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Commerce  (MIC),  for example,
oversees  alcohol,  while   fuelwood   operates  under  private  enterprise
arrangements. While the Federal Government, through Secretaria de Controle
de Empresas Estatais (SEST) within the Ministry of Finance, in principle
approves the investment programs of all public utilities, to ensure their
consistency with the overall level of public sector investment spending, in
practice its efforts are handicapped by a shortage of staff. In addition,
the Government is typically swayed by short-term annual budgetary rather
than long-term objectives.
1.15     The situation with regard to  energy pricing is illustrative.  The
Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) and Comisslo
Nacional de Petr6leo (CNP), in the case of ELETROBRAS and PETROBRAS
respectively, have pursued different policies in establishing the prices of
electricity, petroleum products and alcohol.  The prices of natural gas are
established in yet a different way, according to different criteria, by the
individual States. Further distortions are introduced by SEAP, which must
approve all retail energy prices in light of the Government's anti-
inflationary policies, which are invariably in conflict with pricing
principles based upon economic cost.



-5-
1.16     In hydrocarbons, PETROBRAS responded well  to its mandate to lead
Brazil towards greater self-sufficiency, and has become a success story in
Latin America. PETROBRAS has a monopoly in several areas of hydrocarbons:
exploration and development; import and export; marine and pipeline
transport; and (virtually)  refining.    However,  it  is about 26Z private
sector vwned and displays a strong commercial orientation.  In consequence,
it is efficient and technologically advanced, with su.lcessful international
operations. Recent changes in the Constitution banned new risk co!ntracts,
but "farm-ins are permitted on existing  acreage.  Hence, there is still a
large presence of international oil companies in upstream oil operations in
Brazil and the private sector has invested more than US$l billion in
exploration and development activities.
1.17     As  far  as   the   electricity   sub-sector   is  concerned,  the
institutional structure served the nation well in the past. Following the
new Constitution, important changes are needed and takirg place, as the
respective roles of Federal and State agencies are redefined. (paras. 1.26
and 1.28).
Eneray Conservation
1.18     As energy costs, energy consumption/GDP and environmental concerns
rise, urgent attention needs to be given to the rational use of energy,
especially in industry. Various indices of energy intensity shce-v an upward
trend relative to the unit  value  of  output.   For example, the aggregate
final consumption of energy and of commercial energy, in t.o.e. per 1970
dollar of GDP, increased respectively from 0.288 and 0.235 in 1980 to 0.304
and 0.260 in 1986.    In  particular,  electricity  consumption per unit of
output in industry has risen sharply since 1980, as has the consumption of
both petroleum products and electricity per unit of agricultural output.
While the experience naturally varies  between different types of industry,
specific electricity  consumption  has  risen  in  a wide cross-section of
Brazilian industries since 1980.
1.19     In general, both price and  non-price  policy tools may be used to
improve energy efficiency.   Experience  from  a variety of countries shows
that the level and structure of energy prices is a critical element in any
effective energy demand management and conservation strategy. Notably,
energy prices can induce the desired entrepreneurial behavior, for example
with regard to the choice of type of fuel, technological process and
investments in energy saving measures (including, but not restricted to,
retrofitting). Technical methods, legislation, education and promotion are
also useful policy tools to induce energy conservation.
1.20     Brazil has  pursued  a  variety  of  approaches  to promote energy
conservation. In 1981, MIC launched an ambitious program promoting the
rationalization of energy use in  industry.   A Special Energy Conservation
Fund (CONSERVE) was established in the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
(BNDES) to provide free energy audits as well as conservation loans at
subsidized interest rates, to industry. CONSERVE was principally a program
to substitute petroleum products with electricity rather than a broad
program of energy conservation. Some progress has beon made but there is
still scope to improve the implementation of energy conservation measures.



1.21     Apart from CONSERVE, energy  conservation  measures in Brazil have
included  pricing,   advertising   campaigns,   improvement  of  industrial
processes and power  system  loss  reduction.    Although  energy prices in
general and electricity prices in particular have undergone a long-term
decline in real terms. there was some recovery in 1987 and 1988. The
subsidized  industrial  electricity  tariffs   for  the  promotion  of  oil
substitution ("Eletrotermia" loads) were discontinued as of December 31,
19F'- and implementation of long-run marginal cost pricing is proceeding
well. Recently, the Government launched a National Program of Electric
Energy Conservation (PR'CEL). PROCEL is targeted to stimulate electricity
conservation and it is being supported by the Bank through this loan
(paras. 3.51 through  3.58).    The  Bank  intends  to  support further the
PROCEL, through its electric power lending program. Other conservation
programs have generally been less successful, notably the Program for
Economizing Fuel (PECO), the Voluntary Program to Economize Diesel and
Lubricants (PRODEL) and the Program to Pationalize Energy (PROEN). Given
the importance of energy conservation and the plethora of programs, CNE has
proposed an umbrella agency to bring about some degree of consistency and
coordination. According to CNE's proposal, a Program of Conservation and
Rationalization in the Production and Use of Petroleum Products (CONPET)
would complement PROCEL and subsume other programs such as PRODEL. The
IESS (para. 1.02) will also reconsider Brazil's entire energy conservation
policy.
Environmental and Social Asoects in the Energy Sector
1.22     The  electric  power  sector  faces  important  environmental  and
resettlement  issues  in  the   construction  of  hydroelectric  generation
schemes. Major improvements have been achieved under the Power Sector Loan
(2720-BR) in the capability of the sector to address them (paras. 1.43 and
1.44). Other environmental and social issues facing the energy sector are:
(a) the depletion of forests, due to indiscriminate land clearing and
increasing charcoal production for the iron and steel industry; (b) air and
water pollution caused by the consumption of high-sulphur industrial fuels
and by alcohol producers; (c) the dispossession of sharecroppers in the
Northeast, due to the development of large sugar plantations for alcohol;
(d)  insufficient  compliance  with   existing  regulations  regarding  oil
drilling and control of work camps to protect existing Amazon Indians;
(e) potential environmental problems from open-cast coal mining in the
South; (f) air pollution related to the operation of coal-fired power
plants; and (g) environmental and safety aspects of nuclear power plants.
The environmental issues relating to the power sector are being monitored
by the Bank through the implementation of the Environmental Master Plan
(EMP) agreed  under  the  Power  Sector  Loan  (2720-BR).   Other non-power
environmental and social issues are being addressed by the Government with
Bank assistance through the proposed National Environmental Loan currently
under preparation and other operations.
1.23     PETROBRAS has  identified  environmental  concerns  as  one of its
highest priority areas. An environmental unit was recently established at
headquarters in Rio and environmental "cells, have been established at the
operating level in individual  refineries.    No  project  is allowed to go



forward without an environmental evaluation and every project proposal must
be sent to the appropriate State environmental agencies for comment and
approval. Aside from tackling the environmental and safety issues related
to the production, refining and transport of petroleum products, PETROBRAS
is making efforts to assist with reducing the air pollution caused by the
consumption of high-sulphur industrial fuels in the main cities, notably
Sao Paulo.
C. POVER SECTOR
Power Sector Issues
1.24     The power  sector  confronts  a  set  of  policy  issues, the most
important of which aret environmental protection, energy conservation,
demand management, sector finances, institutional reform, and optimal
investing (through improved balance between generation, transmission, and
distribution). The proposed loan would help the sector to address a
particularly crucial subset of these issues -- namely, sector finances
through tariff increases, optimal investments through increased funding for
transmission works, and energy conservation and demand management through
the implementation of a specific program (PROCEL) to optimize the use of
electricity. Other Bank loans are currently helping to address the policy
issues related to environmental protection and institutional refor4. With
respect to environmental protection, the Government is implementing and
extending the guidelines set forth in the Environmental Master Plan (para.
1.43); and the Bank is monitoring their implementation under Loan 2720-BR.
With respect to institutional reform, also under Loan 2720-BR, the
Government provided the Bank with preliminary findings on the Revislo
Institucional do  Setor  Eletrico  (REVISE)  (para.  1.28).   Completion of
REVISE and implementation of its recommendations is expected to occur once
the new administration (which took office in March 1990) concludes its
review.
Organization
1.25     The Brazilian power sector, one of the largest and most complex in
the world, is in general reasonably well organized although important
changes are  needed  and  taking  place.    The  past  50  years  have been
characterized by progressive nationalization and growing centralization,
resulting in the consolidation of a few large and hundreds of small
utilities into a relatively compact structure of state and federally-owned
utilities. The power sector is under the jurisdiction of the M of I. In
1962, ELETROBRAS was established under the M of I as a mixed-economy
corporation. It functions as a holding company (of four major power
generation subsidiaries: PURNAS, CHESF, ELETRONORTE and ELETROSUL and two
distribution companies LIGHT and ESCELSA) and as a sector development bank.
ELETROBRAS holds the 50Z interest of the Government in Itaipu Binacional
(the binational agency, with Paraguay, that operates the 12,600 MW Itaipu
hydroelectric facility on the Parana River) and owns minority stock
interests in the state-owned utilities. ELETROBRAS also analyzes expansion
plans for major generating and transmission facilities and coordinates and
supervises the interconnected public power system.



1.26     The state owned utilities operate  within the concessions of their
corresponding states. Origin, function, and organization are common for
them. They vere established by state decrees in the mid-1950s. They
acquired most of the other power utilities (private and cooperative) of
their respective states  and  have  grown  rapidly.    In general, they are
responsible for planning, building, and developing systems of generation,
transmission, and distribution of electricity, in their respective states,
under the overall  planning  coordination  of  ELETROBRAS.   General policy
directives are set by Administrative Councils elected by the respective
General Assemblies of shareholders.   The members of the Councils represent
the state governments, ELETROBRAS, private industry, and the managements of
the corresponding companies. The Council appoints a Board of Directors to
manage the company, consisting of the President and the directors of the
various departments (Administration and Finance; Distribution; Planning;
Operations;  Engineering  and  Construction).    The  organization  of  the
companies normally includes an independent Fiscal Council, elected by the
General  Assembly.      This   organizational  structure  permits  efficient
management; and these companies, which carry out programs of careful
recruiting, training, and placing of their work force, have achieved steady
increases in their respective ratios of customers to employees.
1.27     The DNAEE  is  the  regulatory  agency.    It  grants licenses for
generating plants; assigns concessions; approves expansion plans; and sets
tariff levels under the principle of service-at-cost plus an adequate
return on capital, and tariff structures on the basis of long-run marginal
costs (LRMC). In some areas, the approval of other Federal authorities is
also requireds e.g., that of the President for major licenses and
concessions. and of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for tariff increases.
Institutional Reform
1.28     Under Loan 2720-BR  and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory to the
Bank, the Government has carried out the REVISE Study to review the
institutional structure and certain policies of the electric power sector
includings (i) the  overlapping  functions  and  the undue concentration of
responsibility, and the need for a better definition of the roles and
degrees of autonomy of the various sector entities and concerned Government
agencies, both federal  and  state;  (ii)    pricing  issues, including the
problems experienced in implementing the scheme for equalizing the rate of
remuneration for all electric utilities, combined with a system of uniform
national tariffs at a time when the actual rate of return earned under
authorized tariffs is below the statutorily prescribed 101 minimum; and
(iii) the potential for increased participation of private interests in the
electric power sector.   It was  also  agreed  that  the Bank would have a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the findings and recommendations of
the REVISE, and that the Government would carry out a plan of action to
improve  the  operational   efficiency   of   the   sector   based  on  the
recommendation of the REVISE and taking into account the Bank's comments.
A draft report was furnished to  the  Bank  for  comments in early 1989.  A
revised version will be issued by mid-1990, after the new Government (which
took office on March 15, 1990), has had the opportunity to review the study
recommendations and propose  specific  action  plans.    The Government has
submitted to the Bank: (i) a formal request of a waiver in relation to the



- 9 -
submission to the Bank of the action plan for REVISE: and (ii) a
satisfactory justification on the delays of the study and explanation of
the current situation. It has also agreed to periodically exchange views
with the Bank on the progress of completing and approving the REVISE study.
Growth of Demand
1.29     In 1988, national  average  consumption  of  electricity was about
1.300 kWh per capita.   The  industrial  sector used 54Z of the electricity
consumed and the residential sector  21Z.   Electricity consumption rose at
an average annual rate of 11Z in 1975-80, and 72 in 1980-88, which is still
high compared to similar  countries.    Current  projections are for demand
growth at about 5.2Z p.a. The forecast of lower rates of growth reflects:
(i) Brazil's current economic constraints; and (ii) implementation of the
ongoing electricity demand management and conservation programs, which will
be further strengthened through the proposed loan.
System Exzansion Plannini
1.30     ELETROBRAS has the primary  responsibility for the coordination of
expansion planning in  the  power  sector.    Distribution  planning is the
responsibility of each individual  utility  company.   The participation of
ELETROBRAS in  the  global  assessment  of  the  adequacy  of  the level of
investments of  the  individual  utilities  ensures  a consistent approach.
ELETROBRAS is subject to the supervision of DNAEE in the preparation. of its
plans, and the plans themselves are subject to the formal approval of M of
I. Since 1981, SEST has exercised the responsibility for approving the
levels of investment of public utilities to ensure consistency with the
level of public sector investment spending (para. 1.14).
1.31     ELETROBRAS  has  sound  analytical   and  planning  capability  to
formulate a least-cost investment program for the sector. The Bank has
monitored this program and encouraged the power sector to seeks (i) a more
reasonable balance in the allocation of investment spending for generation
plants and for transmission and distribution networks; and (ii) a more £
economic mix of generation among fuel sources: hydro, coal, natural gas,
and,  most  recently,  nuclear.    In  late  August  1988,  the  Covernment
transferred to the power sector the responsibility for financing and
building two nuclear power plants, Angra II and Angra III. Construction of
AngrA II is at an advanced stage (70Z completed) while construction of
Angra III  is  just  beginning.    ELETROBRAS  has  provided a satisfactory
economic justification for inclusion of Angra II in the least-cost
investment program. However, the economic viability of Angra III has not
been  duly   demonstrated,   especially   in   relation   to  its  proposed
commissioning date (para. 3.02).    The  issue  of power system reliability
also has become increasingly important due to the sharp cutbacks in
investment, as has the rehabilitation of electric power transmission and
distribution facilities, especially in the smaller systems, where technical
losses are higher. The implementation of the components included in the
proposed project will contribute to improve system reliability and reduce
system losses.



- 10 -
Electricity Tariffs
1.32     In 1977, the Bank began  a  dialogue  on econcGic pricing with the
Government, starting with the training of a small, influential core group
of power sector staff in DNAEE and ELETROBRAS in the practical estimation
and application on long-run marginal cost (LRHC) based prices. Concurrently
this  group  initiated  a   comprehensive  study  of  electricity  tariffs,
supported by the Bank (under Loan 1300-BR) and assisted by Electricit6 de
France as consultants. The study was completed in March, 1.979, and the
first step to initiate tariffs based on the principles of LRMC was taken in
October, 1981 (by decree No. 86463).    To date, the LRMC tariffs have been
fully implemented for all high-voltage  consumers, who account for some 502
of total consumption.  Implementation  for remaining consumers is scheduled
for completion  in  1991.    In  terms  of  the  tariff  level, the average
published price of electricity (i.e., published tariffs plus related taxes)
is estimated to  be  close  to  LRMC.    However,  the  lags  in the tariff
adjustment mechanism, combined with the high rate of inflation, led to an
P-eerage electricity price billed (tariff plus related taxes actually billed
to consumers) for most of 1989 equivalent to only about 752 of the LRMC
(Annex 1.3, tables 6 and 7).
1.33     Already,  the  impact  of   LRMC   pricing   on  dema,,d has  been
significants it is estimated that 2100 MW of demand have been shifted from
peak to off-peak hours, reducing investment requirements by about US$3.1
(see figure 1 on page  11).    A  further  displacement  of 1000 MW of peak
demand is expected by the end of 1992, and 500 MW more by the end of the
19909 (worth a combined US$2.3 billion), as medium- and low-voltage
consumers are subjected to the new tariff structure. With regard to the
tariff structure, the prices for non-residential consumers exceed LRMC,
although the price actually billed for most of 1989 fell short by some 252
due to time lags.   In  the  case of residential tariffs, prices (including
taxes) are still below LRHC, while the effective price actually billed
falls short by more than 50?.   While  social argument can be made for some
subsidized electricity to low-income consumers, there appears to be no case
for the current  systematic  subsidy  to  all  residential  consumers.  The
structure of the residential tariff should, therefore, be re-examined to
define a reasonable degree of electricity consumption to satisfy basic
needs, beyon-; which all additional consumption would be charged at full
LRMC. Details on electricity tariffs are set forth in Annex 1.3.



FIGURE 1.  CONSERVATION IMPACT OF MARGINAL COST PRICING
PEAK
DAILY LOAD FACTR
1 A -    - *   *    82 -   73%
-*-87   8       3% .
1.3          -   91   =   90%                          198 (BEFORE IMFLEMENTNG
.%             -             i-MARGINAL COST PRICING)
12
1987 (AFTER IMPLEMENTING
THE BLUE TARIFF)
2 1.1                       _                             1991 (EXPECTED)
1.0-                                                   1  (EXECTED)
0.9-
0.8          *I*.
0-
0      4       a       12     iB      20      24
HOURS
PKiW46232



- 12 -
Sector FinanciaA Performance
1.34     The power sector has an important  role to play in the development
of Brazil; but for over a decade, its declining financial situation has
reflected the sffects of inadequate tariff increases on the part of the
Government and corresponding shortfalls with respect to important sources
of financing -- revenues and internal cash generation. Before 1978, the
power sector anjoyed a long period of robust financial performance because
the Government implemented a realistic tariff policy and provided adequate
equity contributions. After 1978, real tariffs and hence sector financial
performance declined, and borrowing as a source of investment financing
increased. In the early 19809, the Government introduced programs to
increase tariffs, but these programs did not reverse the deteriorating
financial trend due to defects inherent to the programs, delays in their
implementation, and precelence given to other strategic objectives.
1.35     In 1985, to  improve  sector  finances  and  to rationalize sector
investment expenditure, the Government, with the assistance of the Bank,
drafted a comprehensive Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan (PSRP), and in
1986, in connection with Loan 2720-BR, they agreed on a PSRP for 1986. As
a measure of its importance, tCe PSRP was embodied in a Presidential decree
(EM 114/86). The final PSRP reflected s"ctor financial targets which were
consistent  with   the   March   1986   Cruzado   Plan   for macroeconomic
stabilization. Among other measures, the Cruzado Plan featured economy-
wide price controls  and  a  freeze  on  tariff  increases; and consistency
between the Cruzado Plan and the  PSRP required the deferral of substantial
tariff increases to 1987 and subsequently.
1.36     During 1986-88, the sector's financial performance (as measured by
the return on remunerable assets), slowly improved, but by less than called
for in the original updated PSRP (EMs 008187 and 073/88). Due to financial
constraints,  actual  investment   le-els   were   below   forecast.    The
unsatisfactory performance of the sector reflected the policy of the
Government to defer improved sector finances in favor of other objectives
(such  as  reducing  inflation).      Throughout  this  period,  there was
continuous dialogue between the Government and Bank on the investment
program and the corresponding financing plan in connection with Loan
2720-BR and a proposed second power sector adjustment operation which never
materialized.
1.37     In June 1987, the  Bank  suspended  processing of the second power
sector  adjustment  operation  due   to   the   introduction  of  a  second
macroeconomic stabilization plan, the Bresser Plan, which, by freezing
power tariffs, voided new commitments (EM 008/87) to improve sector
finances. These new commitments had been made in connection with release
(December 1986) of the second tranche (US$250 million) of Loan 2720-BR; and
had served as the basis for appraising the second operation. Following the
expiration of this freeze, and while preparing a new PSRP, the Government
introduced substantial monthly tariff increases during the latter part of
1987, thereby increasing the average annual basic tariff by 26.6Z in real



- 13 -
terms over the  corresponding  level  in  1986.    However, even with these
increases, the actual performance in 1987 fell short of that expected in
the revised PSRP  (para.  1.40).    (According  to  sector authorities, the
urging of the Bank played a positive, if secondary, role in convincing the
Government of the need to raise tariffs in real terms).
1.38     In 1988, the Bank  renewed  its  effort  to process a second power
sector adjustment operation based on revised commitments reflecting a
slower  pace  of  financial   rehabilitation   (EH   073188);  but  due  to
disagreement with the Government with respect to including a proposed
nuclear power plant (Angra III) ir the expansion program of t.:te sector, the
Bank again suspended processing and then abandoned the effort.
1.39     The sector turned in a mixed  financial  performance in 1988.  As
shown below, the average level of basic tariffs increased over that of 1987
(by 11.62 in real terms), but the level of net cash generation was
adversely affected by higher operating costs, especially labor (as required
under the new Constitution) and higher-than-forecast levels of debt service
(due to the depreciation of the US dollar vs. other hard currencies and
higher-than-forecast   repayments   of    foreign-currency   debt).         In
circumstances of financial constraint, the sector invested US$6,187 million
(in June 1989 prices) or 89? of the forecast level. This was a substantial
achievement in as much as the sector had not received expected financing
from the World Bank (sfice  1986) or other financial institutions, although
it did generate substantial financing in the form of short-term loans and
arrearage with contractors.



- 14 -
1,40     The min Indicators of seator  financial performance for the yearo
1986-1988 show the f 'lowing evolution:
1985       19         17         1969
(stated In prices of June 1969, uair.0 the VC) I/
(I)   Avo. rev./kWh sold
(US *1ls)
Actual                  66.18      62.18      69.72       65.08
Forecast 1               --        65.78      76.70      89.8?
(11) Ave. basic teriff/
kWh sold
(US mills)
Actual                  46.19      42.75      54.12       00.42
For est                 --        40.66      62.84       71.70
(111)  Invoetmnt
Expenditure
(Use millon)
Actual                 6,874      4,901      7,682       6,167
Forecast                -         7,174      8,791      6,9U8
(iv)    Return on Remuner-
able Asset (U)
Actual                  8.4        4.6        6.4         7.7
Forecast                -          6.t        6.0         7.0
(v)    Self-financing (M) .
Actual                 -75.2    -109.7       -54.2       -89.4
Forec at                --        -47.8      -12.9       20.7
(vi) Concu_mr-baeed
financing (U)!/
Atual                  -45.1      -78.0      -87.6       -56.8
Forecast                --        -24.8       21.9        20.7
(vii) Total borrowing/
Investment (U)!I
Actual                 184.4      144.8       890.0       40.6
Forecast                ---        90.7       52.8       68.6
(vill) Adjusted debt-
service coverage)!/
Atual                    .44        .88         .S0        .48
Forecast                 --         .58         .62        .9P2
Rote of exchanges U31.00: NCZ81.U72.
For 1698, EU 114/86; for 1967, EM N8/87; for 19088, EM 078/80.
J Self-financing: net Internal cash generation divided by invostment
expenditures.
J Consumer-bxasd financing: the sum of not Internal cash generation and
other consumer-based  funding   divided  by  Investoont  expenditures.
'Other coneumer-based funding' includoe the sum of revenues from the
ICNS, Reversion, and the Compulsory Loan (a  Annex 8.6).
i Total borrowing/investmsnt: annual long-term borrowing divided by
corresponding investment expenditures.
& Adjusted debt-service coverage: gro" Internal cash generation divided
by debt service less the sum of refinancing loans ('roll over') and
Goverment contributions to cover debt-service obligat$ons.



- 15 -
1.41     In January 1989,  the  Government  introduced  a new macroeconomic
stabilization plan, the Summer Plan, which featured a tariff freeze lasting
for six months. As a consequence of this freeze, the real level of tariffs
as of June 1989 was 36.1! below the level as of December 1988. In July
1989, the Government reinstated the practice of monthly tariff increases
(which remains in force) (para. 3.14): and in August it formulated a
satisfactory tariff recuperation plan which it twice reformulated at the
request of the Bank (October 1989 and January 1990) to take account of the
rapidly increasing  rate  of  inflation.    Although  by  December 1989 the
Government had raised the real level ot tariffs by 28.52 over the level
prevailing in June 1989, the average annual level of tariffs in 1989
deteriorated as compared to that of 1988 (Annex 3.3). The Rate Adjustment
Plan (RAP), which includes a tariff recuperation plan, is satisfactory and
will achieve agreed financial targets, provided that monthly rates of
inflation do not exceed planned tariff increases (paras. 3.14 and 3.15).
Debt Compensations by the Government
1.42     In 1988, the Government and some of the power utilities engaged in
an exercise of mutual iebt reduction through acomDensationsn which improved
the balance sheets of the latter, i.e., reduced amounts mutually owed
without an actual exchange  of  cash.    This  situation had its origins in
power-tariff and cost-of-service legislation which provided that shortfalls
in earnings below the minimum return on remunerable assets could be added
to the rate base for tariff-making purposes and thereby be recovered over
time. (These shortfallF are considered to be a debt owed to the power
sector  by  the  Government).    In  essence  the  "compensations' were an
accounting exercise which was not reflected in the flow-of-funds statements
of the power utilities,  but  whl..  was  shown  on the so-called "Conta do
Resultado a Compensars or the "CRC" account of the cost-of-service
statement with DNAEE. Given the shortfalls of tariff levels over the last
ten years,  the  cumulative  earnings  shortfalls  were  large.  'While the
amounts on "CRC" accounts were growing due to low tariff levels, many of
the operating companies owed increasing amounts to the Government for
non-payment to the Global Guarantee  Fund  (GGF).   The GGF was designed to
transfer  revenues  from   the   financially  stronger  companies  (earning
remunerations above the average) to the financially weaker companies in
order that all companies should earn the rate of return on remunerable
assets common to the sector.
1.43     The background of the ecompensations,"  has its origin during 1987
-- that is, a crisis in the operation of the GGF. The main contributors to
the GGF, the power companies of the states of the South and Southeast, on
instructions of their sharehoiders, withheld payments to the Fund. This
action reflected dissatisfaction on the part of the states in the South and
Southeast with the low  level  of  tariffs.    To  remedy this problem, the
Government authorized the implementation of tariff increases; and power
tariff legislation was amended to require transfers only after individual
companies had earned a return on remunerable assets of 12Z. This scheme is
called Reserva Nacional de Compensacoes de RemuneragAo (RENCOR). Further,
negotiations for 'compensations' were undertaken by individual power
utilities with the Government to reduce debts owed to the Government with
corresponding reductions on  the  "'RC' account.    Iu  1988,  four of the
operating subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS reduced amounts owed to the Government



- 16 -
by almcst US$2.1 billion. In 1989, DNAEE, ELETROBRAS, various state power
utilities, and the Ministry of Finance negotiated another reduction through
compensation amounting to about US$4.1 billion.
Electric Energy Conservation
1.44     In December 1985, through "Portaria Interministerial" No. 1877/85,
the Government launched a program to establish policy measures, integrate
activities and secure financing necessary to implement PROCEL (paras.
3.51-3.58). The main objectives of the program are to rationalize the use
of  electricity   through   increased   power   system  efficiency,  reduce
electricity waste, and  optimize  resource  allocation.   Some progress has
been made in the areas of: (i) demand management, through efficient pricing
(para. 1.33); (ii) distribution network rehabilitation and loss reduction
with the Bank's support through existing Loans (2138-BR, 2364-BR, 2565-BR);
and (iii) specific conservation projects developed based on. the results
obtained from 2,400 energy audits perfoxmed within industrial consumers and
from 10,600 energy surveys within residential and commercial consumers.
Important complementary actions    included  the  education and advertising
campaigns undertaken by the sector though the distribution of over
2,000,000 energy saving manuals among consumers and intensive public
advertising cmpaigns through TV, radio and newspapers. These objectives
are being supported through the proposed loan.
Environmental Asnects
1.45     Since the mid-1970s, Brazil  has made significant progress towards
implementing environmental and social safeguards in the power sector,
especially with respect to the harmful side effects of large hydroelectric
projects on riverine ecosystems and human populations. By 1985, ELETROBRAS
and various regional utilities had created environmental units, carried out
studies, and in 1986 ELETROBRAS prepared a 'Manual for Studies of
Environmental Effects of Electric Systems' (the EMP). The power sector EM?
aims at minimizing adverse environmental and social impacts in the context
of ongoing and future generation projects by: (a) undertaking a large
number of environmental studies and impact evaluations at the inventory and
feasibility stages of  planning  for  power  projects;  (b) identifying :he
least damaging environmental and social options; (c) excluding power
projects with high environmental and social costs; and (d) assuring that
the highest environmental and social standards are adhered to in those
projects which are licensed for construction.    It has since served as the
basis for environmental studies in the various stages of planning and
implementation of electric systems.   The  studies proposed in the EMP also
provided the basis for preparing Environmental Impact Assessments (RIMAs),
which have been, since 1982, a fundamental legal requirement for licensing
the construction and operation of electric systems (power generation plants
and transmission lines), by relevant federal and state level environmental
agencies. While this manual became an effective first step for sector wide
progress in environmental management, ELETROBRAS and the regional utilities
soon recognized the need to follow it up in more depth, including social
questions.
1.46     In this context, since  1986,  ELETROBRAS started to implement the
guidelines included in the EMP in connection with Loan 2720-BR. The EMP
(available in the Project Files) consists of sections on: (i) national
H



- 17 -
environmental  policy,  legislation,   regulations,  and  guidelines;  (ii)
specific guidelines to improve environmental plannin, and operation in the
power sector, including criteria to assess environmental costs and benefits
related to the construction and operation of power projects; (iii)
preparation of environmental and social action plans on a project-by-
project  basis;  and   (iv)   measures   to  strengthen  the  institutional
capabilities of the Lector for implementing the EMP. Together with the
general federal guidelines for the preparation of RIMAs, the EMP provides
guidelines for the treatment of environmental, resettlement, and indian
matters. It is a dynamic instrument to assure and further improve the
environmental and social  performance  of  the  power  sector.   The EMP is
periodically updated. The implementation of the EMP has resulted in: (a)
an improvement in the environmental, resettlement and Indian assistance
programs, which have been carried out since 1986 by ELETROBRAS and the
Electric Power Sector Companies in compliance with its guidelines, (b) the
introduction of environmental considerations in the investment selection
process, and (c) the substantial strengthening of the environmental
analysis capacity of the sector institutions.
D. GOVERNMENT POLICY IN TEE ENERGY SECTOR
1.47     The sharp increases in international oil prices in the 1970s had a
serious impact on Brazil's economy and especially on its balance of
payments position, and profoundly affected the Government's energy policy.
Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum had increased in every year since
1970, reaching a peak of 851 of total petroleum needs in 1979 and making
Brazil the largest net petroleum importer among developing countries. In
consequence, a national energy strategy was articulated, with three basic
aimst (i) to improve energy conservation, including to reduce electricity
consumption and to optimize the power sector investment as well as other
measures to reduce certain uses of petroleu;. products, through inter-fuel
substitution; (ii) to increase the production and the proven reserves of
domestic oil and natural gas; and (iii) to maximize the utilization of
other domestic energy resources, in particular hydro and sugar cane
bagasse, for generating electric energy.   Tne strategy was translated into
several specific programs/policies.   In  terms of supply, greater emphasis
was  placed  on  investments   in  petroleum  exploration,  production  and
refining; hydroelectric and nuclear power plants; and alcohol production.
Some studies were conducted in alternative energy sources, e.g. vegetable
oil to replace diesel, but with no practical results. More recently,
natural gas production and use have been expanded. On the demand side, a
relatively low price has been set for alcohol and diesel, to encourage
their  substitution  for  gasoline,   while   a high  absolute  level was
established to cover the much larger financial costs; a relatively low
diesel price has been set to stimulate the diesel fleet, again in
substitution for gasoline, wood and coal burning were promoted in ceramics
and cement respectively to substitute for fuel oil; and tariff incentives
were provided for the consumption of hydroelectric power, at a time ,hen it
was in excess supply, again to reduce fuel oil use.
1.48     These  programs  and policies   succeeded  in  reducing  Brazil's
dependence on imported petroleum from 852 in 1979 to 472 in 1987 (paras.
1.06-1.07). However, this success was achieved at a price, since the



- 18 -
resources needed to increase the domestic energy supply required a major
increase in public expenditures, which contributed significantly to the
country's foreign debt, fiscal deficit and inflation (para. 1.08).
E. THE BANK'S ROLE
Bank Stratefy
1.49     The Bank's strategy in  Brazil  has  been  to support policies and
investments that encourage economic growth and social development in the
context of macroeconomic stability.   The  emphasis is on efficient natural
resource use and resource allocation, improved public sector management,
and anpropriate targeting and delivery of support to the poor. The energy
sector is a key element in this strategy: a secure and efficient supply of
energy is indispensable to economic growth.   As capital intensity and high
foreign exchange requirements characterize the sector, rational investment
and pricing policies are being promoted by the Bank, to lead to a more
efficient development and use of energy resources.
1.50     The Bank's strategy  for  the  energy  sector  is being elaborated
through its sector work Energy Strategy and Issues Study (ESIS), its
lending operations and its involvement in the IESS. Particular attention
is being given to the links between the energy sector and the macroeconomy.
This work has shown that the key policy issues, including the macroeconomic
linkp'es. can only be addressed at the level of the energy sector as a
whole; and that they require a far-sighted approach, extending beyond the
scope of any single Bank operation.
1.51     The Bank will support the  Government in its sector objectlves and
maintain the dialogue with the power sector during a difficult political
and economic period. Bank involvement in the power sector will reinforce
the priority given tos (i) increasing investments on new transmission
systems which are substantially delayed in their implementation causing
serious risks of power shortages and resultant economic losses; (ii)
deferring capital investments in some generating schemes and achieving
electricity  savings   by   implementing   energy   demand  management  and
conservation measures; (iii) improving operating efficiency by reducing
system losses through the rehabilitation of existing power networks; and
(iv) the resolution of urgent sectoral issues on institutional and
financial aspects. These measures would complement at a project-specific
level,  the  continued   implementation   and   monitoring  of  sector-wide
conditionality  in  the  Power  Sector  (adjustment)  Loan  (2720-BR).   In
particular, they will consolidate the gains achieved in the past in the
power sector and progress further in achieving efficiency by providing
financial support to investment operations which will be processed, each of
them focusing on the one or more key elements which support and enhance the
objectives defined under Loan 2720-BR.
Bank Lendini and Sector Work
1.52     Since 1949, Bank loans to the Brazilian power sector have totalled
US$3.6 billion. The earlier loans financed mainly hydroelectric plants and
associated transmission facilities; however, since the late 1970s, most



- 19 -
have been  for  transmission  and  distribution  projects.    In 1986, Loan
2720-BR was made to assist the Government in rehabilitating the sector
(para. 1.22).   Besides  financing  high-priority investments, Bank lending
has sought to promote rationale tarift policies, to monitor sector
finances, and to help strengthen sector coordination and planning. The
Bank has also made efforts to act as a catalyst for mobilizing additional
external resources for the sector; these efforts, however, have been
hampered by unresolved issues related to the Brazil's external debt.
1.53     The proposed operation  would  be  the  tenth loan to ELETROBRAS.1
ELETROBRAS has acted basically as a financing agency to channel the
resources to the executing agencies.   No  PPAR on these loans has yet been
issued. ELETROBRAS' performance has been satisfactory in all operations,
except when its role was expanded as the Bank delegated its functions of
appraisal and supervision of the beneficiaries of Loans 2138-BR and 2364-BR
(para. 1.56).    The  proposed  loan  includes  a  series  of  measures and
conditions which are expected to greatly improve ELETROBRAS' role as
intermediary (paras. 3.39 and 3.42).
1.54     During the past three  years  in  connection with Loan 2720-BR, by
working with Government and sector authorities, the Bank has assisted the
Government in its efforts to: (i) rationalize the sector investment
program; (ii) rehabilitate the sector financially; and (iii) increase the
sector capacity to deal with environmental and social issues. With respect
to (ii), progress has been less than expected (paras. 1.36 - 1.39).
1.55     In 1986, the Government,  in  connection with Loan 2720-BR, issued
the EMP, setting forth environmental protection guidelines which are
currently being implemented through project-specific Environmental Action
Plans. Since 1986, in the context of continuing dialogue with the Bank --
but without new Bank loans to the power sector -- the Government arranged
for adequate staffing of agencies (Federal, state and sector), charged with
enforcing the guidelines, including the carrying out of RIMAs (paras.
1.43-1.44). Such actions constitute a remarkable response to the problems
of protecting the environment. The consistent use of the guidelines in the
planning and design of large projects in the Amazon region has led to
introduction of measures to ameliorate their negative effects on the
environment or the local Amerindian population, i.xcluding the re-design of
projects and consideration of reducing the scale of projects.
1.56     Twelve performance audit  reports  on  power sector projects2 have
been distributed to the Executive  Directors.   These reports conclude that
despite construction delays, cost overruns in some cases, and the beginning
of a deteriorating financial trend in the late 1970, Bank-financed projects
1/  1300-BR (05|76);  1538-BR  (05/78);  1939-BR  (01/82); 2138-BR (05/82);
2364-BR (12/83);  2365-BR  (12/83);  2564-BR  (08/85); 2565-BR (08/eS);
2720-BR (07/86).
2/ Sec H 75-646 of September 4, 1985; Sec M 77-532 of June 28, 1977;
Sec M 789-34 of January 16, 1978; Sec M 79-82 of February 12, 1979;
Sec M 79-756 of October 23, 1979; Sec M 79-757 of October 23, 1979;
Sec M 79-905 of December 29, 1979; Sec M 81-532 of June 22, 1981
Sec M 84-632 of July 9, 1984; Sec M 85-697 of June 7, 1985;
Sec M 85-1343 of July 3, 1985; Sec M 86-327 of March 24, 1986.



- 20 -
have been substantially successful.    In  general, these reports emphasize
the important and positive role played by the Bank in the Brazilian power
sector.
1.57     There has been only one lending operation in hydrocarbons, the Sao
Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project in 1988 (Loan 3047-BR). Some
hydrocarbons sector work was also carried out, including the Oil and Gas
Sector Review of 1983 (Report 4816-BR) and the Public Sector Investment
Review of 1985  (Report  6600-BR).    Loan  3047-BR  permitted  the Bank to
establish a significant starting role in the development of natural gas,
principally at the retail level, and broadened its involvement in issues
related to general energy sector policy, planning and implementation.
However,  for  further  progress   with   the  policy  dialogue,  a  direct
relationship with PETROBRAS, the key player in the hydrocarbon subsector.
is planned, starting with a Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing project
which has been already appraised.
Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Loss Reduction Program (DRELOR)
1.58     The Bank  is  currently  financing  distribution  expansion works,
power network rehabilitation and loss reduction programs - DRELOR - for
various  state-owned  utilities  through   Loan   2164-BR.    Most  of  the
corresponding subprojects are expected to be completed with delays of two
to three years. The reasons for the delays are in line with those which
apply to the whole power sector, namelys (i) low tariff levels led to low
internal  cash  generation;   (ii)   the   Federal  Government  experienced
difficulties with the former revenue transfer mechanism; (iii) the state
governments provided counterpart funds at lower-than expected levels; (iv)
the smaller beneficiaries experienced delays and difficulties in securing
the cofinancing needed to complete their individual subprojects; (v) the
beneficiaries experienced large arrears in a-counts receivable; and (vi)
the processing of procurement matters was substantially delayed. (Starting
in 1987 there has been substantial improvement in the processing of
procurement matters). Additionally, ELETROBRAS was not able to provide the
expected level of advice,  supervision,  and  support, particularly for the
less-developed companies, some of which appear to need to strengthen their
technical staffs to implement their subprojects adequately. In late 1987,
ELETROBRAS appointed a full-time coordinator and assigned additional human
resources from other ELETROBRAS departments, reactivating project execution
and improving supervision and procurement monitoring. Purthermore, under
the proposed loan ELETROBRAS has agreed to establish a project implementa-
tion unit (para. 3.42) which will be also responsible for monitoring Loan
2364-BR.   At  the  request  of  the  Bank,  ELETROBRAS  recently submitted
satisfactory programs reformulating the implementation and disbursement
schedules and financing plans of the subprojects of the various state-owned
utilities.
1.59     ELETROBRAS is carrying out an  agreed Action Plan (AP) to complete
DRELOR by June  30,  1991.    The  AP  includes reprogramming, approval and
implementation of the investment plan (physical targets and their timing);
and corresponding financing scheme (reallocation of a portion of the
undisbursed balance of Loan 2364-BR, contributions from ELETROBRAS and the
respective states, self-generation of the utilities and other sources).



- 21 -
II. THE BORROWER AND POWEd MARKET
A. THE BORROWER
Introduction
2.01     The borrower would be ELETROBRAS,  which would onlend the proceeds
of the proposed loan for the power transmission subprojects to federal and
state utilities, under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus
an annual administration fee of one half of one percent (1/2 of 1X) on the
corresponding amounts disbursed  and  outstanding.    The  project would be
executed under the supervision of ELETROBRAS, which as intermediary, will
be responsible for selecting the different beneficiaries and sub-projects,
subject to Bank approval, and for monitoring project implementation.
Background
2.02     ELETROBRAS was created in 1962 by  Law No. 3890-A as a vehicle for
consolidating existing public utilities, centralizing management of the
sector and encouraging orderly regional expansion and long-term growth.
ELETROBRAS  is  a   omixed   economy"  corporation   operating  under  the
jurisdiction of the M of I, and responsible for the planning, financing,
coordination and supervision of the operation and expansion of the
Brazilian power sector.
2.03     By law, at least  51  percent  of  the company's voting stock must
always be owned directly or indirectly by the Brazilian Government, which
currently holds 99.8 percent of total company shares and 100 percent of
voting stock.  In accordance  -with  its  charter, ELETROBRAS must apply the
resources allocated to it for the development of the electric energy sector
of Brazil, coordinate the activity of and render financial, technical and
administrative assistance to its subsidiary and associated companies, and
implement the national electric energy policy under the guidelines issued
by M of I.
Orianization and Management
2.04     ELETROBRAS is governed  by  an  Administrative  Board of Directors
comprised of the Prerident (appointed by the President of the Republic of
Brazil); five Directors who are elected at the General Shareholders meeting
for a term of three years and who head up the various departments of the
company (Coordination, System Operations, Economics and Finance, Planning
and Engineering, and Corporate Management); four Counselors, elected for a
term of three years, who are associated with public power companies under
federal concession and have experience in technology, finance or business
management; and two Counselors, again elected for a term of three years,
one representing public bodies other than the Federal Government and
another representing private shareholders.    An Executive Board, comprised
of the President and the five Directors, has responsibility of making
policy recommendations to the Board and managing the day-to-day activities
of the company. The organizational sLructure of ELETROBRAS is considered
to be adequate to serve the company's needs.



- 22 -
Finauclna Role
2.05     Because of its function  as  holding comp ny. financial agency and
development bank for the Brazilian power sector, ELETROBRAS plays a pivotal
role in the development of the sector. It finances projects of subsidiary
and associated companies. ELETROBRAS, thus becomes heavily dependent on
sector based resources for its  finances.    This tends to make ELETROBPAS'
financial conditions mirror the trends in the finances of the sector.
2.06     ELETROBRAS raises funds from four sources, as follows:
(a)  Statutory Resources.   ELETROBRAS  receives  and distributes funds
from two statutory sources, the Compulsory Loan and the Global
Reversion Fund (GRF).
(b)  Government Funds.   There  are  two  sources  of  funding from the
Federal Government: its reinvestment of ELETROBRAS' dividends and
special budgetary appropriations.
(c)  Internally Generated Funds.    Internal  sources  of funds inclutde
dividends  paid  on  its   investments  by  its  subsidiaries  and
associated companies, and interest and principal from loans
advanced to its borrowers.
(d)  Borrowings.  ELETROBRAS raises  both domestic and foreign currency
loans, by onlending or investment in power utilities. Annual
borrowings targets for ELETROBRAS are established in accordance
with the sector budget approved by SEST.
Planning and Budzeting
2.07     ELETROBRAS has long been  at  the  center  of sector technical and
financial planning, both in the short-term (through the budgeting prooess)
and the long-term. Since 1981, however, ELETROBRASt responsibility for the
budgetary process has been reduced with the centralizing of decision-making
in SEST (an agency of the Secretariat of Planning - SEPLAN). Besides
budgeting  and   related   financial   planning,   ELETROBRAS  has  primary
responsibility for the coordination of medium and long-term planning in the
power sector and preparation of system expansion plans. Planning functions
are carried out satisfactorily.
Training and Staff Relations
2.08     ELETROBRAS' staff is competent and well trained.  At present, some
difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff exist because, in order to
fight inflation, ceilings for salaries of top management of government-run
entities have been established and salary increases havre not kept up with
inflation. The Federal Government has also established a zero-growth rate
in the number of personnel of ELETROBRAS (currently 1,982). ELETROBRAS
will therefore be obliged to improve the productivity of its staff.



- 23 -
2.09     ELETROBRAS has a  comprehensive  and  up-to-date training program,
for personnel of all Brazilian power utilities. This training program has
also been extended to other South American power companies, members of the
Regional Electric Integration Commission (CIER).
Accountint and Auditing
2.10     ELETROBRAS's accounting  system  is  satisfactory.    The Internal
Auditing Department, which reports to the President, carries out an
adequate program of financial audits and follow-up on past recommendations.
ELETROBRAS employs as its external auditors the firm Price Waterhouse,
whose performance has been acceptable to the Bank. In addition, the Fiscal
Council, appointed by the Shareholders' meeting, carries out external
control duties in accordance with Brazilian law.
Prospective Beneficiaries
2.11     The prospective beneficiaries of  the  Bank loan are the following
state utilities: CESP, ELETROPAULO and CPFL all operating in the state of
Sao Paul.o; COELBA (Batiia); COPEL (Parana); CERJ (Rio de Janeiro); and CEMIG
(Minas Gerais).  ELETROBRAS subsidiaries  which would benefit from the loan
are LIGHT (Rio de Janiero) and ELETROSUL (generating utility). Serring the
more well developed states of Brazil, the prospective beneficiaries are
among the larger, better organized, and financially stronger state-owned
utilities.    Origin,  function,   and   organization  of  the  prospective
beneficiaries are described in para. 1.26.
THE POER MARKT
Historic Power Market
2.12     The proposed beneficiaries of the  Bank loan supply electricity to
nine states located primarily in the South, Southeast and Western regions
of Brazil: Mato Grosso (North and South), Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande
do Sul, Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catarina, So Paulo and Bahia (Northeast
region) with 38Z of the Brazilian territory and a population of 97 million
(67Z of  Brazil's  total).    The  aggregate  gross  yearly  generation and
installed capacity of the above  regions  is about 1,750 kWh/inhabitant and
430 watts/ inhabitant respectively,  which  are  considered higher than the
indicators  for   the   whole   country   (1,460   kWh/inhabitant  and  340
watts/inhabitant).
2.13     ELETROSUL (federal utility) and CESP  (utility of the state of Sao
Paulo)  are  responsible  for   power   generation  and  they  provide  the
electricity consumed in the areas of their concessions through bulk sales
at high voltage levels (500 kV, 440 kV, 345 kV, 230 kV, 115 kV) to the
state-owned utilities and municipal  companies.    CEMIG (Hinas Gerais) and
COPEL (Parana), which also generate a considerable amount of power within
their concessions, sell electricity (both own-generated and purchased at
bulk from the federal utilities) to their consumers through their extensive
distribution networks at high and low voltage levels. The other utilities
(COELBA, ELETROPAULO, LIGHT, CERJ, CPFL) are mainly responsible for
distributing electricity within their concessions.



- 24 -
2.14     Increase  of  total   electricity   supply   varies  widely  among
concessions.    As  illustrated  in  the  table  below,  electricity supply
increases were high (7.6? p.a.) in concessions such as COPEL's (Paran6)
because of industrial and agricultural growth. In other c'ncessions, such
ae tie ones of LIGHT and ELETROPAULO, which serve mainly the cities of Rio
de .aneiro and Sao Paulo, electricity supply increased at a lower pace (5Z
and 4.22 p.a. respectively), mainly due to the greater saturation of their
power markets as these  areas  are  more  developed.    Annex 2.1, Tables 1
through 5 illustrate in detail the evolution of the beneficiaries' power
market.
Actual Power Market
Average
AnnuaI
1980                      198S             Increase
S las    Lose"  Deand    Sales   Lossos  Demnd   Sales DOmand
owh      Gwh    Mw       osh      owh     w       X      X
CEMIG       17,876   1,469   2,900   28,874   2,867   4,400    5.9   5.4
CERJ        8,011    as8    eon       5,048    680    0G      6.7   5.0
CESP       89,861   2,388            62,668   8,263           3.7
COELBA      8,566    424    700       6,142    644   1,100    7.1   6.1
COPEL       6,415    491   1,00      9,727    738   1,7W9    7.6   6.6
CPFL        7,981     68   1,5gm     12,678    024   2,800    5.9   5.7
ELETROPAULO  84,760   2,760   6,ooo    48,459   8,416   7,700    4.2   8.2
ELETROSUL    8,246    S5W            12,410    770             5.2
LIGHT       14,084   1,841   2,400    20,680   2,128   3,400    6.0   4.5
2.15     The composition of the  proposed beneficiaries' eleztricity supply
by  categories  has  changed  in  general  during  1980-1988.   Residential
consumption has increased its share by about 2Z (in the case of CPFL from
21.32 in 1980 to 252 in 1988) reflecting thus: (i) actual regional birth
rates; and (i$) migrations to large urban centers. Industrial consumption
has decreased its share by about 4? (in the cases of CEMIG and COELBA from
77? in 1980 to 72? in 1988 and f;-om 452 in 1980 to 37Z in 1988
respectively) reflecting the current economic problems of Brazil, which
have adversely affected the expansion of the industrial sector.
Future Power Market
2.16     The Brazilian power  utilities  prepare market forecasts employing
unified methodological guidelines which were issued in 1976 by DNAEE. The
power market forecast of the beneficiaries for 1989 - 1995 were prepared on
the basis of moderate targets for expanding electricity coverage to the
population, realistic assumptions about the possibility of implementing
large industrial projects, and modest increases in electricity consumption
due to current economic perspectives. Market projections were jointly made
by ELETROBRAS and their subsidiaries or the distribution companies, based
on:  1i) extrapolation  of   historical   electricity  consumption  trends;
(ii) econometric correlation between electricity consumption and socio-
economic indicators (income, population), and (iii) evolution of existing
and future industrial loads.    The  market forecast in the areas served by
the beneficiaries are adequate and they are consistent with the power



- 25 -
market projections for the country as a whole and expected economic growth
in the regions served by them.    The supply forecast and system losses are
summarized below.
Power Market Forecast
Average
Annual
1989                      1995              Increase
Sales    Losse   Demnd    Sales    Loss  Demand   Sales Dmand
owh      owh    mw        Q h     G h      W        X      X
CEMIG       29,728   2,689   4,600    42,776   8,88Z   6,499    6.3   6.2
CERJ         5,181   1,082    900      6,992    995   1,299    4.9   6.5
CESP        49,897   2,899            86,561   2,724            2.1
'02EA        6,59     766   1,100    19,040   1,920   1,709    7.8   6.8
COPEL        9,971    T48   1,800    14,899   1,117   2,690    6.9   6.1
CPFL        12,698    844   2,390    17,093   1,997   8,699    5.1   4.8
ELETROPAULO  49,059   3,676   8,400    68,944   4,789  10,499    4.8    8.6
ELETROSUL   14,699    905             20,899   1,869            5.8
LUNT        21,389   2,189   8,809    27,265   2,727   4,899    4.1   4.5
2.17     The proposed beneficiaries'  total  electricity supply is expected
to increase during 1989-95 at annual average rates ranging from 42 in the
more developed areas, to 72 in less developed areas, such as Bahia
(COELBA),  due  to:    (i) the  expected  commissioning  of  ne-. industrial
undertakings; and (ii) COELBA (as well as other beneficiaries) were not
able to provide service to potential new consumers (suppressed demand)
because  of  financial   constraints.         The   market  forecast  for  the
beneficiaries is adequate as it is in line with the Brazilian sector
projections and with the country  economic projections for the same period.
The composition of the beneficiaries' electricity sales structures are not
expected to change substantially during the period. Details of forecast
electricity sales, requirements and demand are included in Annex 2.1,
Tables 1 though 5.
Transmission and Distribution Losses
2.18     The share of transmission and distribution losses has decreased by
about 12 (from 82 to 72 of supply) mainly due to the installation of
voltage  and   power   factor   compensating   equipment.          The  proposed
beneficiaries' total transmission and distribution losses during 1988 were
in general within acceptable levels and in line with commonly accepted
levels for utilities in developed countries.   Except for utilities such as
CERJ (State of Rio de Janeiro) and COELBA (Bahia); whose system losses were
about 17.52 and 10.52 of total supply respectively, system losses averaged
about 71.   System  loss  levels  should  decrease  during 1989-1995 due to
better  *itilization  of  the   transmission   systems  and  improvement  in
distribution systems, in particular through the implementation of the
electricity conservation program under the project. An important factor to
achieve this objective would be the adequate and timely implementation of
the beneficiaries investment programs in transmission and distribution.



- 26 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. GENERAL INFORMATION
Background
3.01     In January 1986, because  of  the  financial difficulties faced by
virtually all of the power utilities, and because of the economic importance
of the sector, the Government requested the assistance of the Bank in a
sector rehabilitation program. Such assistance materialized in the form of
the Power Sector Loan (Loan 2720-BR, US$500 million), an adjustment loan
which the Government used to finance equity contributions to individual
power utilities. The loan was approved and fully disbursed in 1986 against
general ivrports.
3.02     T'he Bank also  planned  to  process  subsequent investment loans to
help finance sector expansion.    In  addition,  to maintain and extend the
gains achieved in the financial, institutional, and environmental policies
of the sector during 1986-88, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the
Governuent asnd the sector while preparing a proposed second power sector
adjustment operation. However, the processing of this loan was discontinued
because of disagreement with the Government on the construction of the Angra
III nuclear power plant. Subsequently, the processing of a proposed
Environmental Reform and Energy Conservation Adjustment Loan was also
discontinued due to deteriorating macro-economic conditions.
3.03     Despite substantial tariff increases, debt service compensation and
some of the agreed equity contributions during 1987 and 1988, the levels of
investment in transmission works fell short of targets mainly due to sector
financial constraints. These targets were set under the Power Sector Loan
and they aimed at correcting the imbalances in the composition of power
sector investments during the late 1970's and early 1980's when about 63Y of
the total sector investment was allocated to generation projects and only
222 to transmission works.    To  remedy  these investment imbalances and in
view of the limited access of the sector to financial markets, the
Government requested in June 1989 financial assistance from the Bank for the
implementation of the 1990-93 trarsmission program included in the expansion
plans of various sector utilities.    The  project will assist the sector to
meet the target levels of investments in transmission works which, as
originally set, will amount to about 301 of the total investments (Annex
3.2, Table 5).
Proiect Obiectives
3.04     The principal objectives of the  proposed loan are to: (i) optimize
investment in the power sector through increased funding for high priority
transmission works; (ii) improve sector finances, primarily through tariff
increasest (iii) expand energy conservation and demand management programs
under the National Electric Energy Conservation Program (PROCEL) and
(iv) improve sector institutional arrangements through the implemontation of
the REVISE. These measures would complement the continued implementation
and monitoring of the sector-wide conditionality in Loan 2720-BR. The
project will also help maintain the Bank's dialogue with the power sector
during a difficult political and economic period. This will permit the Bank
to monitor  closely:  (i) the   beneficiaries'  operational  and  financial



- 27 -
performance. through review and approval of their investmexut programs and
financing plans; (ii) measures to strengthen their institutional, technical,
and financial capabilities; (iii) the implementation of energy conservation
measures to achieve power loss reduction and improved electricity usage
through  PROCEL  (see  para.  3.54  for  a  description  of  PROCEL);    and
(iv) measures to address a subset of the most urgent sectoral issues on
institutional and financial aspects, including implementation of: REVISE
(para. 1.28); and financial measures to improve the performance of the
proposed beneficiaries (paras. 3.14-3.19).
Proiect Descrimtion
3.05     In previous investment lending  to  the  power sector, the physical
scope of the projects was narrowly defined and proceeds of the Bank loans
were allocated to one or exceptionally to very few beneficiaries. Before
1980, most of these loans financed the construction of large hydroelectric
power stations; after 1980, they supported specific transmission and
distribution works. Furthermore, specific amounts from the proceeds of the
Bank loans were allocated to each beneficiary. In general, implementation
of the above projects took about six to seven years. and proceeds of the
Bank loans were disbursed  during  up  to  eight  years.    The slow pace of
disbursements has raised serious concerns both within the Government and the
Bank regarding the efficiency of the transfer of Bank resources and the high
cost cf financing as a result of both delays in project implementation and
excessive commitment fees.
3.06     Based on this experience,  a  broader  conceptual approach has been
formulated in the proposed loan. Essentially this operation would finance a
time-slice (1990-93) of the transmission investment programs of up to nine
power utilities in order to support the construction of new transmission
lines and power substations.   Having expressed interest in participating in
the Project, as many as nine operating companies are expected to benefit
from the proceeds of the proposed loan being allocated to this project
component. No specific amounts have been allocated to benefit each the
potential beneficiary. The specific project components will be implemented
by the strongest and most capable ones (potential beneficiaries ares
ELETROSUL, LIGHT, CESP, ELETROPAULO, CPFL, CEMIG, COPEL, COELBA and CERJ).
The use of Bank resources would be related to the ability and efficiency of
each beneficiary. The utilities to benefit from the Bank loan, as well as
their transmission works to be financed with proceeds of such loan, will be
selected  in  accordance   with   comprehensive   technical,  financial  and
institutional criteria (paras. 3.20  and  3.40).   These selection features,
together with Bank's financing of a part of the associated civil works
(para. 3.30) should accelerate the transfer of Bank resources, thereby
reducing the disbursement period and lowering the financial costs while
enabling  the  Bank   to   continue   addressing  effectively  power  sector
objectives:  financial,  technical,  institutional  and  environmental.   In
addition, the proposed loan will help finance Part A of PROCEL.
3.07     The proposed project includes the following components:



- 28 -
(a) 1990-93 Transmission Prosram: Construction and rehabilitation of
about  11,400  circuit-km  of   high  voltage  transmission  lines;
construction of new substations and expansion of existing ones
adding an aggregate of about 25,400 MWA of power transformer
capacity and 5,400 MVAR of power reactors/capacitors banks. These
facilities comprise the 1990-93 investment targets of the nine
utilities. The Bank loan will finance equipment, materials and
civil works, for about 82 of the total programs' cost. Details of
the beneficiaries' transmission programs are included in Annex 3.1,
Tables 1 through 5.
(b) Part A of the Electric Energy Conservation Programs (PROCEL)t This
program will be implemented by ELETROBRAS during the period 1990-91
and includess (i) studies related to co-generation, furnaces, and
improved power uses in buildings; (ii) purchase and installation of
about 100,000 units of efficient public lighting fixtures; (iii)
purchase and installation of about 500 MVAr of distribution
capacitor  banks  to  reduce   system   losses;  (iv)  purchase  of
laboratory  and metering  equipment;   and  (v)  training  on  the
application of energy conservation technology and practices. The
Bank will finance the studies and equipment included in PROCEL
programs. Details of PROCEL are in paras. i.51-3.58.
Proiect Cost
3.08     The proposed program for  1990-93  comprises a four-year least cost
transmission expansion program of the nine power utilities, as set fortn in
the latest review of the Plano 2010, the sector's long-term expansion plan.
About US$340 million equivalent, of the proceeds of the loan would be used
by the sector utilities to purchase equipment and materials and to secure
civil work contractors to construct the different works included in their
1990-93 transmission investment  programs.    About US$30 million equivalent
will be used by ELETROBRAS in connection with PROCEL. About US$15 million
will finance interest during construction on the Bank loan during the first
two years of project implementation.   The estimated project cost, including
physical and price contingencies as well as interest during construction, is
US$3,852 million, of which US$1,570 million, or about 412, is the overall
foreigr  exchange  currency  component.      Details  of  the  beneficiaries'
investment programs are in Annex 3.2,  Tables  1 through 5, and a summary of
expected costs is given below:



- 29 -
Proiect Cost
USS million
Local        Foreign        Total
ELETROBRAS Group's Transmission
ELETROSUL                          174.8          116.5        291.3
LIGHT                              336.3         _24.2         560.5
Sub-Total                        511.1         340.7         851.8
State Utilities' Transmission
CERJ                                11.4            7.6         19.0
CESP                               186.0          124.0        310.0
ELETROPAULO                        349.6          233.0        582.6
CEMIG                              397.1          264.8        661.9
COPEL                              119.2           79.4        198.6
CPFL                                91.5           61.0        152.5
COELBA                             183.1          122.1        305.2
Sub-Total                      1,337.9         891.9       2,229.8
PROCEL                                38.3           26.2         64.5
Total Base Cost                  1,887.3       1,258.8       3,146.1
Physical Contingencies             184.9          123.3        308.2
Price Contingencies                209.8          141.6        351.4
Interest During Construction       -            46.2          46.2
Total Cost                       2,282.0       1.569.9       3,851.9
3.09     The cost estimates  were  prepared  by  the utilities' planning and
construction staff. They are based both on preliminary and detailed design
and comprehensive bill of materials and equipment as well as detailed
evaluation of the corresponding civil works and erection costs. These
estimates were calculated utilizing constant May 1989 prices. They include
taxes and import duties as applicable (about 1OZ of the base costs).
Physical contingencies are about 1OZ of the base costs, which is sufficient
given the nature of the works and the degree of accuracy of the above
estimates. It is assumed that periodic local currency devaluations would
compensate for differences between the projected US dollar and local
inflation rates. However, construction costs have risen more rapidly than
devaluation  recently,  and  project   costs  will  be  carefully  monitored
throughout project implementation. Price contingencies have been calculated
utilizing the Bank's latest forecast of price increases (O.D. 6.50, Annex B
- November 1989): 4.9Z p.a. for 1990-93.



- 30 -
Proiect Pinancing
3.10     The Bank loan amounting  to  US$385  million is equivalent to about
252 of the project foreign exchange (direct and indirect) component. A
portion of the Bank loan equivalent to US$340 million would help finance the
Transmission Program and about US$30 million of the Bank loan will support
the implementation of the conservation measures included in the PROCEL. The
remaining costs would be financed as followss (i) US$1,936 million (502)
through  internally-generated  funds;   (ii)   US$131.2  million  (32)  from
Government contributions; (iii) US$400 million (112) from ELETROBRAS; and
(iv) US$1,000 million (262) from other sources (commercial banks, supplier's
credit, FND and possibly official ex ernal cofinancing).
3.11     The proposed Bank  loan  includes  US$15.0  million  to finance the
interest during construction and other financial charges during the first
two years of project implementation in order to alleviate the heavy
financial burden imposed on the beneficiaries and ELETROBRAS by the legacy
of inadequate tariffs, the implementation of the ongoing expansion program
and the present limited  access  to  other  financing.   The following table
summarizes the expected sources of fundst
Financing Plan
US$ million
Local   Foreign
Sources  Sources   Total    2
Beneficiaries' Internal Cash Generation   1,935.7        -  1,935.7      50
State Government Contributions               131.2       -    131.2       3
ELETROBRAS own-resources                     400.0       -    400.0      11
IBRD Loan                                        -   385.0    385.0      10
Other Loans                                1.000.0     -    1,000.0      26
Total Funding                       3,466.9   385.0  3.851.9  100.0
Legal Arraniements
3.12     The borrower  of  the  Bank  loan,  ELETROBRAS,  would retain US$30
million of the proceeds to help finance the PROCEL program being implemented
under its Coordination Department. With the remaining 922 or US$355 million
of the loan, ELETROBRAS would make subsidiary loans to the beneficiaries,
under the same conditions as the Bank loan plus an annual administration fee
of one half of one percent (1/2 of 12) on the corresponding amounts
disbursed and outstanding.   The  beneficiaries  under the transmission sub-
project would bear the interest and foreign exchange risks of the loan.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with ELETROBRAS that as a
condition of disbursement for each beneficiary, a satisfactory subsidiary
loan agreement between ELETROBRAS and the beneficiary would have been
signed.   The  proceeds  of  the  Bank  loan  to  each  b;neficiary would be
determlned  once  beneficiaries  and   subprojects  have  been  selected  in
accordance with the criteria in paras. 3.39-3.41.



- 31 -
Financial Framework
3.13     in 3uly 1989, after discontinuing  price cotitrols ,,ee para. 1.41),
the Government outlined the policies, measures, and objectives which would
constittite the financial framework for the beneficiaries for 1990-92.
Central to this framework are the policies of the Governmert on tariffs (the
Rate Adjustment Plan -- RAP), debt service "rolled over", and equity
contributions 1nd debt service capitalized and/or compensated (which would
involve budgetary allocations on the part of the Federal Government or the
governments of the states).  The  RAP  was reformulated in October and early
December, 1989 to take account of the very high inflation of late 1989 and
early 1990.
3.14     Rate Adiustment Plan (RAP).   Tariff levels, as measure3 by average
revenue per kWh sold, are an important indicator for assessing the financial
performance of the sector and of the individual utility. To assess the
financial performance of the sector during high inflation, ELETROBRAS
developed a model for calculating monthly levels of average revenue per kWh
sold (which takes into account forecast/actual market data, consumption
structure per category, tariff per category,  day  of the mornth on which the
increase is enacted and  percent  of  increase).    Annex 3.^ shows that the
Government, through a program of monthly tariff adjustment", increased the
level of tariffs in real terms by 26.6S annually in 1987 and 11.62 in 1988.
In the last quarter of 1988, tariff levels achieved a ten-year high In real
terms. Although the structure of tariffs continued to be based on LRMC
principles, there was a 39Z erosion in the real level of tariffs between
December 1988 and July, 1989, due to the imposition of price controls. In
July, the Government announced its intention to reinstate its program of
monthly tariff increases and to recover the level of 1988 and then maintain
in real terms.
3.15     By  implementing  real  monthly  tariff  increases,  the Government
expects to reach a target tariff l3vel of NCz$103.40/MWh (or TJS$54/MWh sold)
stated in prices  of  July  1989.    Achievement  of  this  level would be a
condition of effectiveness. The current tariff level is 902 of the target
tariff level. The Government also intends to align the structure of tariffs
with LRMC by increasing tariff levels in real terms for certain categories
of consumers. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that a tariff level
of at least US$54/MWh will be maintained as a 12-month average after the
Bank loan becomes effective, and as an annual average in 1991 and
thereafter.
3.16     'Roll-over" Policy.  "Roll-over" -- the rescheduling or deferral of
debt-service payments on loans denominated in foreign currency -- is an
important  source  of  financial   relief   for  the  sector  under  current
circumstances of limited resources and increasing investment needs. The
Government  has  been  managing   'roll-overd policy  under  public  sector
budgetary practices -- tbat is, by annually establishing through legislation
the percent of foreign-currency debt-service payment to be covered during
the year. For fiscal 1990, legislation establishes coverage at 10O and
752, respectively, of the annual foreign-currency debt service owed by
federal and state power utilities.    For  1991  and 1992, similar bills are
expected.



- 32 -
3.17     Eauitv Contributions. Debt-Service Compensations and Budietarv
Policies.   The  Federal  Government  does  not  foresee  specific budgetary
allocations for equity contributions in the Federal utilities. However,
equity contributions may be required to comply with covenants of "adjusted
debt service coverage" agreed with the Bank in connection with the proposed
loan. Should this be the case, ELETROBRAS, the major shareholder and
creditor of the Federal utilities, would convert into equity a portion of
the debt service owed by its subsidiaries to meet agreed standards of debt
service coverage.
3.18     There  are   no   uniform   approaches   concerning  the  budgetary
allocations by the state governments to the state power utilities. To deal
with these uncertainties, there will be provision under legal arrangements
between ELETROBRAS, the utilities, and the state governmer.ts for state
equity contributions sufficient to permit the state power utilities to meet
agreed standards of  "adjusted  debt-service  coverage".   Because the state
governments are still discussing the level and allocation of the ICMS
(Imposto de Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servigos) and have expressed no
final decision on allocating its proceeds, the state utilities are not able
to forecast the level of equity contributions from that source with the same
degree of certainty as formerly.3
3.19     The above financial framework, including the RAP. should enable the
project beneficiaries to perform satisfactorily and to execute their sub-
projects in a timely manner. By November 30 of each year, there would be a
review of the financial framework as part of the dialogue between Government
and power sector with the  Bank.    It  is expected that such dialogue would
lead  to  adjustment  of   the   main   parameters   in  light  of  changing
circumstances.
3.20     Financial  Criteria  for  Selecting Beneficiaries.    Prepared  by
ELETROBRAS, the Manual for Selecting Beneficiaries and Sub-projects (see
paras.  3.39-3.41)  sets   forth   the   financial  criteria  for  selecting
beneficiaries -- a set of common conditions for all potential beneficiaries,
plus sets of specific conditions for three categories of utilities:
generating companies, companies contributing to RENCOR, and companies
receiv'.ng RENCOR allocations.    A  summary  of  the financial conditions is
given in the paragraphs below.
3.21     The  common  conditions  are   compliance   with  respect  to:  (a)
commitments with other IBRD or ELETROBRAS loans; (b) Article 5 of Decree
2432/88 and approved by Legislative Decree 35/89 (which require liquidation
of arrearage in connection with RENCOR (para. 3.22), RGF, and electricity
bills);  (c)  adequate  management   of  working  capital,  especially  the
collection of public sector electricity bills and payments to suppliers and
contractors; and (d) timely compliance with reporting requirements.
3/ The ICMS takes the place of an old tax, the IUEE - Imposto 1jnico de
Energia Eletrica. Under the prior Constitution, the proceeds of the
IUEE were collected by the Federal Government and then distributed to
the utilities (60Z), and the balance to states and municipalities for
investment in the state  utilities.    Under  the new Constitution, the
states receive the proceeds of the ICMS for state general expenditures.



- 33 -
3.22     The specific conditions imply different performance standards based
on the beneficiaries financial characteristics. Under the present financial
organization of tE.e sector, as established by RENCOR, the generating
companies of ELETROBRAS support the financial performance of the state
utilities because the differential between  bulk   and retail tariffs favors
the latter. This policy is aimed at permitting the state utilities to
achieve higher, legal rates of remuneration, thereby facilitating the
operations of the mechanism which transfers funds within the sector. Given
the uniform national tariffs system and the mechanism for transferring
financial resources, utilities contributing to RENCOR rather than receiving
RENCOR allocations, are expected to have relatively better financial
performance.
3.23     As  in  prior  projects  (Loans  2564-BR,  2565-BR,  and  2720-BR),
individual beneficiaries would be selected based on a balanced assessment of
current and projected financial performance with reference to four key
financial  ratios:  (a)  the  rate   of  remuneration  (that  is  return  on
remunerable assets as defined and calculated under Brazilian law); (b) a
ratio of 'adjusted" debt-service coverage -- to be achieved by the major
shareholders converting enough debt into equity or mak.ng sufficient capital
contributions to permit the beneficiaries to achieve agreed coverage
targets; (c) a ratio of debt incurred in one year to corresponding capital
expenditures, by which beneficiaries agree not to borrow more than a
percentage of investment expenditure; and (d) a ratio of total long-term
debt to total net fixed assets,4 which also restricts the beneficiaries
borrowing. (A more detailed description of these covenants and related
definitions is in Annex 3.4).    Below  is  a  summary  of the key ratios of
financial performance set forth in the Manual:
4/ "Total net fixed assets" means the sum of fixed assets, construction
work-in-progress,  and   deferred   charges   to   fixed  assets,  less
accumulated depreciation and amortization.



- 34 -
Categories of Beneficiaries
Key Ratios of                            Companies con-    Companies re-
Financial                 Generating    tributing to        ceiving RENCOR
Performance               Comnanies      RENCOR             allocations
(a) Rate of
Return on
Remunerable
Assets (Z)              6 to 8           10 to 12           a to 10
(b)  'Adjusted"              not less        not less           not less
Debt-Service            than 1.1 in      than 1.5           than 1.5
Coverage                1990 and in-
Ratio (X)               creasing
annually
thereafter
(c)  Debt/Capital            not higher      not higher         not higher
Expenditure (Z)         than 65          than 70            than 65
(d) Total Deot/
Total Net Fixed         not greater     not greater        not greater
Assets (Z)              than 67          than 67            than 67
Beneficiaries
3.24     Historic Performance:    The  financial  performance  of  the power
companies is mainly determined by the Federal Government, which sets tariffs
levels, authorizes investments and borrowing, provides "roll-over" financing
for debt-service, and manages the revenue-sharing mechanism (RENCOR). In
these circumstances, utilities have a limited margin for affecting their own
performance. Moreover, the generation and transmission companies perform
differently from the distribution ones, especially as the Government is
currently operating the RENCOR in a manner which favors the latter. The
performance of the distribution companies also differs depending on whether
they are serving concentrated or extended markets.
3.25     Annex 3.5 illustrates  the  financial  performance of the operating
companies which are expected to be beneficiaries of the proposed loan. In
1988, the sector annual average tariff level, US$54/IWh, permitted these
operating companies to achieve a satisfactory financial performance, as
measured by: (a) return on remunerable assets; (b) adjusted debt-service
coverage; (c) ratio of annual debt to corresponding capital expenditures;
and (d) ratio of total debt to total net fixed assets.
3.26.    Outlooks  As measured  by  the  average  revenue  per kWh sold, the
financial performance of the sector deteriorated in 1989 as compared to 1988
because oft (i) a freeze on the level of tariffs during the first half of
the year; and (ii) very high and accelerating monthly rates of inflation
during the last half of the year; (iii) the low level of Government equity



- 35 -
contributions; and (iv) the limited amount of borrowing available to the
sector. In connection with preparation of the proposed Project and to
address the financial problems of the sector, the Government, in discussions
with the Bank, has formulated a financial framework (paras. 3.14 to 3.19)
for the power sector that would enable the project beneficiaries to perform
in a financially satisfactory manner. The main component of this framework,
RAP, had to be reformulated in October 1989 and January 1990 to take into
consideration the accelerating monthly rates of inflation. Notwithstanding
the implementation difficulties attending RAP, the sector target tariff
level of US$54/MWh -- which was attained in 1988 and which is required to be
attained as a 12 month average (after the Bank loan becomes effective) and
as an annual average in 1991 and thereafter -- is expected to be
satisfactory from the point of view of the beneficiaries -- that is, it
would enable them to cover their operating costs, debt service, and a
reasonable portion  of  their  investment  program.    Annex  3.6 sets forth
details on the basic tariffs and other elements constituting average revenue
per kWh sold. During negotiations, the Government agreed with the Bank to
review annually, by November 30, the adequacy of this tariff level.
ELETROBRAS
3.27     Role  and  Operating  Structure:        The  financial  situation  of
ELETROBRAS, as sector holding company and bank, must be analysed differently
from that of the power sector utilities (Annex 3.7). ELETROBRAS main assets
are "Loans and other Financing Granted" (58t of total assets), permanent
assets (Stock of Subsidiaries) (40?); and current assets (21). Total debts
amount to about 45? (43? long term and 2Z current) of total assets; net
equity, about 55Z.   Revenues  have  been  mainly  derived from interest and
commitment fees on loans and Other Financing Granted (60Z), dividends (about
3Z) and Equity Adjustments (372) (non-cash capital gains resulting from
assets revaluation in its subsidiaries).
3.28     Historic Performance:  ELETROBRAS has traditionally enjoyed a sound
financial performance; its banking operations have been managed cautiously
and within prudent exposure  limits.    The  results  of its holding company
activities have followed the fluctuations of the power sector and the
macroeconomic  situation.    Consequently,  earnings  have  deteriorated  in
comparison with the prosperity of the mid-1970's, although partially
compensated by the Equity Adjustments by which the stock held by ELETROBRAS
maintained a strong appreciation.    ELETROBRAS' operating results have been
satisfactory in the last five years, except in 1987, when the negative
impact of CHESF and ELETROSUL performances (mainly due to accounting
adjustments and monetary corrections of assets i- operations) resulted in a
global loss. There is no evidence to substantiate the claim by some that
ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries are favored as borrowers.
3.29     Outlook:  The financial  tramework  set  out  (paras. 3.14 to 3.19)
will allow ELETROBRAS to perform at satisfactory levels, even though the
RENCOR does not favor its subsid.aries (para. 3.22). To ensure satisfactory
performance, during negotiations, the Bank obtained the following agreements
from ELETROBRAS: (a) to seek Bank concurrence for borrowing if: (i) its



- 36 -
ratio of total coverage (the sum of gross internal generation of funds plus
interest and financial charges divided by the sum of debt service plus
dividends) is less than 1.1; or (ii) its ratio of long-term debt to equity
is greater than 602 to 40?; and (b) to carry out its operations in
conformity with a ratio of financial investments (other Financing Granted by
ELETROBRAS divided by its total outstanding debt) of not less than 1. A
more detailed description of these ratios and related covenants is included
in Annex 3.4.
Procurement
3.30     Items eligible for  Bank  financing  include  foreign exchange and
local costs oft (i) equipment and materials such as power transformers,
reactor and capacitor banks, substation ancillary equipment (switchgears,
circuit breakers, switches, PTs, CTs), conductors and structures for
transmission lines and substations; (ii) civil works and erection contracts
associated with the installation of the above equipment and materials; and
(iii) items included in the PROCEL, such as studies, laboratory instruments
for testing and metering, high-efficiency public lighting bulbs, capacitor
banks and telecommanded load control equipment.
3.31     Except for the  purchase of laboratory/metering/telecommanded load
control equipment and contracting consultant's services to be procured in
connection with PROCEL, proceeds of the proposed loan would only be
available to finance bid packages with an estimated value above US$1.0
million. Bids for erection and civil works with an estimated value of
above US$5.0 million as well as all bids for the supply of equipment and
materials would be awarded under ICB procedures in accordance to Bank
guidelines. Bids for erection and civil works with an estimated value of
less than US$5.0 million would be awarded under LCB procedures approved by
the Bank. These procedures were reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank.
Eligible foreign firms will be allowed to participate in the LCB process.
In connection with PROCEL, international shopping and direct purchase
methods in accordance with Bank guidelines would apply to the procurement
of equipment (laboratory, metering instruments and telecommanded load
control equipment). Bank guidelines would apply to the contracting of
consultants, who would carry out the PROCEL studies. Bids for capacitor
banks and public lighting under the PROCEL should be grouped in order to
form bidding packages valued at least US$500,000.
3.32     As in previous  power  loans  and  for  purposes  of evaluation of
proposals, Brazilian suppliers  of  equipment  and  materials  with a local
aggregate value of at least 50S of the price of the goods will be given a
margin of preference of 15 or the applicable import duties, whichever is
lower. In the case of the erection and civil works contractors, no margin
of preference would be applied.    The  Bank has agreed with ELETROBRAS and
the power utilities on the contents of standardized bidding documents both
for the supply of equipment and materials and for securing erection and
civil-works contractors under ICB and LCB. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with ELETROBRAS to mandate the use of such bidding documents.



- 37 -
3.33     LCB is not expected to  affect  the  economy and efficiency of the
project because: (i) given that the works to be procured under LCB are
relatively small and technically simple,  it wvuld be unlikely that foreign
contractors would be attracted to bid on such works; and (ii) given that
there is a sufficient number of well-qualified local contractors, there
would be strong local competition. Documentation (bidding documents, draft
contracts, evaluation reports and award recommendations) corresponding to
all bid packages subject to ICB and to be financed with the Bank loan will
be subject to prior Bank review. Regarding LCB procurement for civil works
financed by the Bank, the first two procurement documentation packages will
be subject to prior Bank review.
3.34     The following table  summarizes  the  procurement arrangements for
the project:



- 38 -
USII ILION
Procurement Method
I      ---------------------------------------------------------           TOTAL
ITEM                    iCe 1/       LCB2/         IS 8/        DP 4/       Other 6/       COST
TRANSMISSION SUB - PRO4JT
a) Substation Equipment          115.0        554.4          -             -            -           666.4
and materials                (115.0)       (0.0)          -             -            -         (118.;)
b) Transax;sion Lines            100.0        769.8          -             -            -           889.3
Equipment and Mateial,       (100.0)       (0.0)          -             -            -         (100.0)
c) Civil and Erection             88.0       2,147.8         -             -            -         2,202.8
Contract.                    ( 8.0)       (70.0)          -             -            -          (128.0)
Sub - Total               270.0        8,471.2        0.0          0.0           0.0        8,741.2
(270.0)      (70.0)        (0.0)         (0.0)        (0.0)       (840.0)
PROCEL
d) Laboratory and Load             -            -           7.0           2.            -             9.2
Control Equipment               -                       (8.0)         (1.2)          -            (7.2)
a) Studieo 6/                      -            -            -             -            4.8           4.8
(4.8)        (4.8)
f) Capacitor Banks                11.0          10.8         -             -            -            21.8
(11.0)         (0.0)        -             -            -          (11.0)
g) Public Lighting                 6.0           6.5         -             -            -             12.8
(6.0)         (0.0)        -            -             -           (6.0)
h) Other Prorme                    -             18.0        -             -            -             15.0
-            (0.0)        -             -            -            (0.0)
i) Training                       -             -            -             -             1.7          1.7
Sub - Total                 17.0           81.8       7.0          2.2            6.8          64.8
(17.0)          (0.0)     (6.0)         (1.2)         (5.8)       (0.I0)
TOTAL PROJET                      2d7.0        S,S03.0       7.0           2.2           6.S       8,805.7
(287.0)         (70.0)     (6.0)         (1.2)         (8.8)       (870.0) 7/
NOTE:
1/ SCB * International Coepetitive bidding.
2/ LCD a Local Competitive Bidding.
S/ IS I International Shopping applicable only to the purchxe. of laboratory and
metering equipment under PRICEL.
4/ OP * Direct Purchase applicable only to the purchase of laboratory and
metering equipment under PROCEL.
6/ Other a Contracting conaultants servicee under Bank guideline./*cholarehipe abroad.
6/ Include. the following studie;: Load Managesent (QS6 0.7 million); Furnace, (MS 1 million);
Power Sector/Public/Comerciel Building. CUS  1.6 million); Cogeneration (QJ8 1.8 million).
7/ This figure exclude. an allocation of US11 18 million from the Bank loan
to finance interest during construction during the first tao years of projoet implementation.



- 39 -
Disbursement
3.35     The loan is expected  to  be  fully  disbursed in about five years
(1991-1995, Annex 3.8), a disbursement period which does not correspond
with the Bank's standard disbursement profiles. Two innovative features of
the  operation  are   expected   to   lead   to  rapid  !nplementation  and
disbursements (i) the project would consist of priority works to be
constructed simultaneously by several power utilities to be selected based
on the criteria of institutional capacity and financial strength; and
(ii) Bank funds would finance both goods and materials and associated
erection and civil works, thereby avoiding implementation delays due to
lack of counterpart funds.    The  four-year implementation period has been
used to calculate project price contingencies.
3.36     Proceeds  from  the  proposed  loan  would  be  disbursed  against
expenditures which should be submitted to the Bank fully documented for
contracts valued more than US$500,000 equivalent. Other expenditures would
be  disbursed  against  statements   of   expenditure  (SOE)  certified  by
ELETROBRAS. The loan proceeds would be applied to:
(a) 100 2 of expenditures for erection and civil works contracts,
procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 10OZ of foreign expenditures for imported goods, or 1002 of
the ex-factory cost for local goods, purchased through Bank ICB procedures;
(c) 1002 of foreign expenditures for imported laboratory, metering and
telecommanded load control equipment and training; and
(d) 1002 for consulting services and related expenditures.
To accelerate implementation, two Special Accounts would be opened: one at
the Central Bank for payment of local expenditures (CESA) and another at
commercial bank abroad to cover foreign expenditures (FESA). The initial
deposit into each account would be US$20 million and US$15 million
respectively. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1995.
Prolect Rlsks
3.37     The transmission component faces  no  special  physical risks.  The
project implementation unit established within ELETROBRAS should ensure
timely implementation of the subprojects included in the beneficiaries
expansion plans.    ELETROBSRAS  and  the  beneficiaries  have been adversely
affected by the financial problems of the power sector. These problems are
being addressed through a program of tariff increases, capitalization, debt
roll-over and cost reduction measures which are to be agreed in the context
of the proposed project (paras 3.14 through 3.19 and 3.23). Failure to
imUlement or insufficient action on the above matters could however,
negatively affect institutional performance and/or result in program and
proje:t delays.



- 40 -
B. TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
Backaround
3.38     The transmission  component  is  an  integral  part  of  the sector
investment program which was prepared on the basis of the long-term
expansion plan, Plano 2010, a comprehensive planning study completed in
1988. The Bank has reviewed both the Plano 2010 and the details of the
beneficiaries expansion plans and (except for the nuclear program - Angra
III), they were found to be sound least-cost development programs. The
investment programs were defined on the basis of criteria accepted by the
Bank and the power sector.   The  criteria includes (a) maintaining the same
basic least-cost expansion sequence for generation projects recommended in
the Plano 2010; (b) giving priority to the completion of transmission and
distribution projects required to transfer and distribute the energy
generated by projects now being commissioned, and to construct the new
networks required to improve system reliability; (c) postponing and scaling
down some schemes included in the generation plans (mainly coal and
nuclear); and (d) implementing energy conservation measures (PROCEL) in
order  to  defer  some   scheduled   investment  and  enhance  power  system
efficiency.   The  beneficiaries'  expansion  plans  have  been adjusted and
reduced to reflect the market requirements during the forthcoming four years
and to reflect realistically the beneficiaries' ability to finance their
expansion program. Agreement was reached that the beneficiaries would not
enter  into  contractual   arrangements   regarding  the  implementation  of
generation and transmission projects costing in excess of US$200 million
until their technical, economic and financial justification had been
confirmed in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Criteria for Selectina Beneficiaries and Sub-Proiects
3.39     ELETROBRAS, through the  Project  Implementation Unit (para. 3.42),
will be responsible for carrying-out detailed analysis and assessment of all
the criteria and conditions necessary for the selection of both beneficia-
ries and sub-projects. Rigorous and objective eligibility criteria has been
established to select beneficiaries and subprojects. The selection will be
based on the individual utility's: (i) ability to properly implement
projects; (ii) adequacy of its financial situation and expected performance
(para. 3.23), and (iii) economic and technical soundness of its investment
program.   The  criteria  and  conditions  are  compiled  in  the Manual for
Selection of Beneficiaries and Sub-Projects, which was reviewed by the Bank
and found adequate.
3.40     The main  eligibility  criteria  for  the  selection of subprojects
include: (a) conforming with the least-cost alternative within the context
of the beneficiaries' and sector least-cost investment plans; (b) being a
priority work within the beneficiary and sector expansion plans, based on
market/supply   requirements,   quality/reliability   of   supply,  regional
interconnections; (c) meeting accaptable technical and economic standards;
(d) cost and scope not to be different from the reference cost and scope
included in the sector expansion plan; and (e) submission of acceptable
Environmental  Impact  Statements   (RIMA's)   including  implementation  of



- 41 -
measures to mitigate adverse impacts derived from the construction of
transmission  works.    The  RIMA's  should  be  prepared  in  accordance to
prevailing Brazilian legislation (para. 3.43).
3.41     The main eligibility  criteria  for  the selection of beneficiaries
include: (a) financial capacity, which will be assessed mainly on the basis
of agreed financial performance (para. 3.23), (b) compliance with the
financial convenants established under prior Bank loans (para. 3.21); and
(c) institutional capability, which will be assessed on the basis of the
utility  arrangements   for   project   administration,  implementation  and
monitoring as well as on existing experience in engineering, construction,
procurement,  finances  and   project   supervision.    During  negotiations
agreement was reached with ELETROBRAS ont (i) the contents and utilization
of the Manual for Selection of Beneficiaries and Subprojects; (ii) the
specific quantitative and qualitative assessment parameters based on the
criteria described above for selecting beneficiaries and subprojects and
applied in a fair and objective manner; (iii) its commitment to supervise
properly the implementation of the project; (iv) review and approval by the
Bank of the beneficiaries and subprojects selection; and (v) that as a
condition of loan effectiveness that at least 5 beneficiaries and their
corresponding subprojects have been selected based on the agreed criteria
included in the Manual.
Proiect SuDervision and Imilementation
3.42     The project would  be  executed  under  the  overall supervision of
ELETROBRAS, which as intermediary will be responsible for selecting the
different subprojects and beneficiaries as well as for monitoring the
implementation of the different project components. It will also supervise
the implementation of the conservation program (PROCEL) and the completion
of the projects under Loan  2364-BR.    ELETROBRAS has agreed to establish a
high caliber Project Implementation Unit which would be responsible for the
above tasks.    Having  analyzed  data  corresponding  to  the  selection of
companies and subprojects, ELETROBRAS would send its recommendations to the
Bank for approval. The Unit is to be managed by a competent project manager
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by
full-time specialists in the areas of technical, economic, financial,
institutional, procurement, project supervision and monitoring; and loan
administration  matters.    Annex   3.9   includes  the  unit  arrangements.
ELETROBRAS has submitted appropriate documentation reflecting: (i) detailed
arrangements for this unit, including descriptions of the functions and
responsibilities of each position; and (ii) details setting forth procedures
and processes. During negotiations agreement was reached with ELETROBRAS on
the above matters and that it would maintain the implementation unit in a
manner satisfactory to  the  Bank.    A  condition  of  effectiveness of the
proposed loan is that the project implementation unit be fully operational.
3.43     The  beneficiaries'  engineering  departments  expect  to  complete
shortly the final engineering designs for their corresponding subprojects as
well as the final bill of materials for the purchase of equipment,
materials,  and  construction  works.    The  utilities  are  utilizing  (as
required) specialized services from consulting engineering firms and/or



- 42 -
specialized individual experts currently under contract with them. The
technical staff of the utilities are very competent and it is expected that
project final  designs  would  be  prepared  adequately.    In accordance to
established practices, the beneficiaries are likely to contract both
international and regional-based contractors for construction works which
have vast experience in these  type  of works.   Installation of very large
and/or sophisticated equipment would be done by the suppliers under the
supervision of the beneficiaries.   Installation  of other equipment such as
control, protection and distribution panels, required for substation control
rooms would be carried out hv force account. Both installation of equipment
and construction works would be  under  the supervision of the corresponding
construction departments of the beneficiaries. With the above arrangements,
it  is  expected  that  the   project  would  be  adequately  completed,  as
demonstrated in the successful implementation of complex ongoing projects.
3.44     Procurement, manufacturing,  installation  and  construction of the
different works in the project are expected to be carried out during the
period September 1990 - December  1994.    The  corresponding key dates are
summarized belows
Activity                                 Period
Issuance of bidding documents            September l990 - December 1992
Contract awards                          March      1991 - June     1993
Commissioning of works                   January   1993 - December 1994
Project execution will be  monitored  against  target  dates included in the
project implementation schedule to be agreed once projects and beneficiaries
are selected in accordance to the Project Manual (paras. 3.39 - 3.41).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with ELETROBRAS to comply with
performance indicators to monitor operational, financial and managerial
performance. The tinancial indicators are included in Annex 3.4 (para.
3.23); the  technical  indicators  are  included  in Annex  3.10.  Starting
December 31, 1990, ELETROBRAS will submit quarterly progress reports on the
project  and  beneficiaries   in   accordance   to  the  detailed  reporting
requirements included in Annex 3.11.
Environmental Aspects
3.45     The subprojects included in the beneficiaries' 1990-93 transmission
expansion plans do not present major environmental problems. Some of the
transmission lines will be constructed utilizing existing right-of-ways as
they  are    additional  circuits  (but  to  be  constructed  in independent
structures)  to  existing  transmission   lines.    For  transmission  lines
connecting new consumption centers, line routes are considerably distant
from urban centers. Most of the substation works are extensions to existing
ones, therefore not presenting any additional environmental or aesthetic
problems. The new substations would be constructed with due regard to
environmental and aesthetic criteria in accordance with prevailing Brazilian
regulations.    The  beneficiaries  of  the  proposed  loan  will compensate
property owners as required by the national legislation. Clearing of right-



- 43 -
of-way would be kept to a minimum and natural drainage patterns are not
expected to  be  affected.    The  project  selection  criteria (para. 3.40)
include specific provisions for preparing adequate Environmental Impact
Assessments (RIMA's) as required by each individual project and in line with
Bank's environmental policies.
Least Cost Solution
3.46     The  transmission  expansion  programs  of  the  beneficiaries  for
1990-1993 were planned on the basis of their corresponding: (i) power market
forecasts; (ii) system load flow studies; (iii) system stability analyses,
and (iv) system contingency evaluations based on probabilistic methods. The
results of the above studies, which were carried out in accordance with
unified planning criteria used by the power sector, indicate that the
proposed project  should  be  implemented  as  promptly  as  possible.   The
expansion of existing substations and construction of new substations as
well as the addition of high voltage transmission lines are justified
because of the necessity to serve additional system loads, to transfer the
energy generated at the power plants to the consumption centers, to reduce
system losses and promote electricity conservation, and to improve current
levels of system reliability and quality of supply.
3.47     The selection  of  the  proposed  transmission  line configurations
(voltage level, structures, conductor sizes, span lengths and routing) is
based on economic comparison with other possible configurations. In each
particular case, the beneficiaries select the alternative with the lowest
present value (least cost solution) at a discount rate of 11Z net (the
opportunity cost of capital in Brazil). Furthermore, substation capacities
(power transformers, capacitors, reactors) and their lay-outs have been
established to minimize investment and operational costs over the facility's
useful life, taking due consideration both to substation load requirements
and to applicable technical standards currently being used in the sector.
The selection of the proposed facilities and their configurations is
adequate.
Economic Justification
3.48     Rates  of  return  were  calculated  on  the  1990-1993  investment
programs  for  each  of   the   beneficiaries   and  they  include  all  the
corresponding investments in generation, transmission, and distribution
facilities necessary to meet electricity demand (Annex 3.12). The economic
net  cost  streams   include:   (i)   capital   investments  on  generation,
transmission,  sub-transmission,   distribution   and   general  investments
(buildings, furniture, etc.) to be made by the beneficiaries and; (ii) costs
of operation and maintenance related to the capital investments including
the energy purchased  from  others.    Since  benefits  of the beneficiaries
arising from their investment programs cannot be quantified with precision,
the use of a proxy is required. Therefore, the economic net benefit streams
were measured by the forecast revenues from the incremental sales of
electricity, attributed to the facilities included in the corresponding
investment programs, on the basis of the implementation of the tariff
program agreed with the Government and ELETROBRAS as a condition of



- 44 -
effectiveness of the loan  (para.  3.15).    This  estimate of benefits is a
minimum measure of the consumer's willingness to pay for electricity
services, which has already been demonstrated since the average tariff level
covenanted for loan effectiveness is the same as the level that prevailed in
1988.
3.49     The rates  of  return  of  the  beneficiaries  1990-1993 investment
programs utilizing the above tariffs are summarized belowt
Utilities                  Rate of Return (%)
CEMIG                             16
CERL                              32
CESP                              12
COELBA                            16
COPEL                             17
CPFL                              33
ELETROPAULO                       27
ELETROSUL                         10
LIGHT                             17
3.50     The above results confirm that,  with the planned tariff increases,
the rates of return of the utilities 1990-1993 investment programs would be
above the opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in Brazil (about llS). The
above rates of return do not fully measure consumer surplus and the social
benefits of residential and public uses, or the indirect benefit to industry
and commerce, whose production and employment depend on reliable electricity
supply. Thus, these rates of return are deemed to be a minimum measure of
the benefits derived by the project.    If revenues based on current tariffs
(November 1989) are used as a proxy for benefits, the IRR is below the OCC,
indicating that tariffs should be raised for economic efficiency reasons.
This is fully consistent with the conclusion reached in para. 3.15, that
tariff levels should be increased to ensure sector financial viability.
C. DEKAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION
Introduction
3.51     In December 1985, through  'Portaria Interministerial" No. 1877/85,
both the ministries of Mines and Energy and of Industry and Trade launched a
program to establish policy measures, integrate activities and secure
financing  necessary  to  implement   PROCEL,  a  comprehensive  electricity
conservation plan under the overall management of ELETROBRAS. The main
objectives of the program are to balance electricity consumption (by
enhancing efficiency in its usage), and electricity supply (by improving the
power system resource allocations and operational patterns) and to reduce
both marginal and average investment  costs.   These objectives are expected
to  be  achieved  through  the   implementation  of  adequate  policies  and
legislation, provision of necessary financing, and establishment of an
adequate core framework to develop the demand management and conservation
programs. Of paramount importance is to set adequate electricity tariffs
which convey proper price signals in order to encourage adequate investments
both on the supply and demand sides.



- 45 -
3.52     Because  of  the  inadequate  support  available  in  the  past  to
implement the policy reforms and measures included in the PROCEL, as well as
the financial constraints imposed on the power sector as a result of the
current macroeconomic difficulties of Brazil, PROCEL has been implemented at
a slower pace than  originally  scheduled.    At  the same time, significant
progress has been made through the  design of new tariff structures based on
long run marginal costs and through the implementation of basic low-cost
conservation measures. Meanwhile the Government also has been pursuing a
comprehensive distribution network rehabilitation and loss reduction program
with the Bank's support through existing Loans (2138-BR, 2364-BR, 2565-BR).
Based on the initial success of these actions, the Government and the sector
are placing increased priority on demand management and conservation (DMC)
programs  to   complement   supply   planning   options.       Programs  under
consideration  include:  continuous   support   for  economically  efficient
pricing; programs on load management; improvement of construction and
equipment standards; energy audits of all consuming sectors; support for
increased energy efficiency in industrial processes; transmission and
distribution loss reduction programs; and broad educational and information
dissemination programs. In addition, privately owned cogeneration projects
are under study as part of a broader policy initiative to extend the realm
of alternatives in energy supplies, specifically from biomass fuels such as
bagasse.
3.53     The limited funding available  for  DMC  has restricted progress in
this area. Additional financial support is needed to implement these low
marginal costs, energy supply savings  programs.   These programs range from
short-lead-time, rapid-payback activities which could be classified as 'good
housekeeping' to significant capital investment programs in such areas as
industrial drive motor replacement. All of the programs included in the DMC
provide significant energy efficiency improvements (demand reduction) at
marginal costs which are below the costs of the system LRMC of supply. The
PROCEL  sub-project  is   based   on   the  establishment  of  comprehensive
conservation policies and on specific programs to be implemented under the
overall supervision of ELETROBRAS and with the participation of state-owned
utilities. The programs include actions related to load management, energy
efficiency, loss reduction, and cogeneration. During negotiations agreement
was reached with ELETROBRAS to carry-out the measures and actions included
in Part A of PROCEL in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including the
provision of funds for execution of PROCEL.
Proaram Descriotion
3.54     The proceeds of the Bank loan  being  allocated to Part A of PROCEL
will help finance the DMC programs which are to be implemented during 1990
and 1991. A summary of the components included in Phase I is given in the
following paragraphs. Detailed description of these programs is included ir.
Annex 3.13.



- 46 -
(a)  Load Management (LMP).  This program includess (i) consolidation of
thle electricity pricing system based on long-run marginal cost
(LRMC) and improvement of the average system power factor -
reactive power - (indirect LWM); and (ii) implementation of pilot
programs for load management through centralized telecommanded load
control schemes; decentralized telecommanded load control schemes
and devices especially designed to restrict demand (direct LMP).
The telecommanded load control equipment and devices to restrict
demand are to be financed with proceeds of the Bank loan.
(b)  Energy Efficiency - This program  is  addressed to enhance the end-
use of electricity by industrial and commercial consumers through
studies and complementary actions and it includes the following
programss  (i)  electrical   furnaces;   (ii)   public  sector  and
commercial  buildings;  (iii)   public  lighting;  (iv)  laboratory
equipment and training; (v) energy audits; and (vi) industrial
demonstrations and information dissemination.
(c)  Loss Reduction - This  program  includes  the installation of about
5,000  MVAr  capacity  of   capacitor  banks  through  distribution
networks belonging to different Brazilian power utilities.
Cd)  Cogeneration - This program  includes studies on cogeneration using
residual biomass fuels such as bagasse from the sugar/alcohol
production process.
Program Costs
3.55     The proposed DMC programs  are  part  of  the 1990-91 Part A PROCEL
investment  plan.    Its  estimated   cost,  including  physical  and  price
contingencies, amounts to about US$64.5 million.   Proceeds of the Bank loan
amounting to US$30 million will be allocated to assist ELETROBRAS to finance
it. Details of the cost estimates are given in the following tablet



- 47 -
1990-91 Part A of PROCEL
USS million
IBRD      ELETROBRAS
Financing    Financing    Total
a) Load Management
- Programs on reactive power                  1.0            0.3        1.3
- Pilot Programs (load control schemes)       2.2            1.0        3.2
- Studies                                     0.7            0.0        0.7
Sub-Total                             3.9            1.3         5.2
b) Energy Efficiency
- Electrical Furnaces                         1.0 1/         5.0        6.0
- Public Lighting (100,000 units)             6.0            6.5       12.5
- Power Sector Buildings                      1.0 1/         6.5        7.5
- Public and Commercial Buildings             0.6 1          1.5        2.1
- Energy Audits                               0.0            1.7        1.7
- Laboratory Equipment                        5.0            1.0        6.0
- Training                                    1.0            0.7        1.7
Sub-Total                            14.6           22.9        37.5
c)  Loss Reduction (500 MVAr)                   10.0           10.0       20.0
d)  Cogeneration Study                           1.5            0.3        1.8
Total                                30.0           34.5        64.5
1/ Studies



- 48 -
Benefits and Justification
3.56     All of the above programs provide significant potential for savings
in peak capacity, energy or both.   As an aggregate, it is expected that the
actions included in PROCEL will result in electric energy savings of about
3,940 GWh per year after 1992 (equivalent to about US$1,300 million for the
installation of about 900 MW of additional generating capacity). Details of
the above benefits as well as of the quantification of derived savings are
included in Annex 3.14.
3.57     The DMC component is  in  line  with  both  Bank5    and Government
strategies to develop and implement schemes which enhance system efficiency.
In fact the Bank loan will support and consolidate fundamental policy shifts
in the power sector recognizing the importance of demand management/
conservation as a cost effective alternative to building new power supply
facilities.
Return on Investment
3.58     The internal rate of  return  of  the PROCEL programs on electrical
furnaces, public lighting and power sector buildings is estimated at about
641
Proiect Files
3.59     Annex 3.14 includes a list of the documentation utilized to process
the above project and to prepare the SAR.
5/ In particular, the Bank has financed several power projects which have:
(a)  improved  the  power   systems'  efficiency  and  promoted  energy
conservation through project components aimed at reducing power system
losses; and (b) improved power load management by establishing upgraded
as well as new Load Dispatch Centers in order to enhance the quality of
power supply by improving voltage levels, system power factors and
continuity of service.



- 49 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01         During negotiations, the Bank agreed with the Goverranent and/or
ELETROBRAS, on the following major conditionss
(a)   For Effectiveness
(i)      Rate Adjustment Plan (RAP): The Government shall have taken
all necessary actions to comply with the terms of the RAP
by increasing tariffs sufficiently to reach the target level
of US$54/MWh (para. 3.15);
(ii)     Beneficiary and Sub-Proiect Selection: ELETROBRAS shall have
selected at least five beneficiaries and their respective
sub-projects on the basis of: 'a) agreed criteria set forth
in the Manual for Selectin of Beneficiaries and Sub-
projects; and (b) the specific quantitative and qualitative
assessment parameters included in the selection criteria
which should be applied in a fair and objective manner.
The Bank shall have reviewed and approved these selections
(para. 3.41);
(iii)    Proiect Implementation Unit: The Project Implementation
Unit shall have become fully operational in accordance to
agreed: (a) detailed arrangements as shown in its organogram
and as set forth in complete descriptions of the functions
and responsibilties of each position; (b) procedures and
processes; and (c) technical staffing (para. 3.42);
(b)   For Initial Disbursement to Each Beneficiarv
Ui)      Subsidiary Loan Agreements: ELETROBRAS shall submit to the
Bank a signed copy of a satisfactory subsidiary loan
agreement between ELETROBRAS and the beneficiary (para.
3.12);
(c)   During Proiect Implementation
(i)      Rate Adiustment Plan (RAP): The Government shall take all
necessary actions to comply with the terms of the RAP by
maintaining the target tariff level of US$54/MWh as a
twelve-month average after effectiveness and as an annual
average in 1991 and thereafter (para. 3.15);
(ii)     Annual Review: Not later than November 30 of each year,
the Government shall exchange views with the Bank on the
financial performance and condition of the sector (para
3.26);
(iii)    Beneficiary Selection and Sub-Proiect Selection: ELETROBRAS
shall carry out the Project based on: (a) the contents and
utilization of the Manual for Selection of Beneficiaries
and Sub-Projects; (b) the specific qurintitative and



- 50 -
qualitative assessment parameters included in the selection
criteria which should be applied in a fair and objective
manner; (c) its commitment to supervise properly the
implementation of the Project. The Bank shall review and
approve the selected beneficiaries and gub-projects (para.
3.41):
(iv)     Proiect Implementation Unit, ELETROBRAS shall maintain the
Project  Implementation  Unit,  fully  operational,  in
accordance to agreed: (a) detailed arrangements as shown
in its organogram and as set forth in complete descriptions
of the functions and responsibilties of each position; (b)
procedures and processes; and (c) technical staffin, (para.
3.42);
(v)      Standard Bidding Documents: ELETROBRAS shall utilize and
cause the beneficiaries to utilize satisfactory standardized
bidding documents for procurement of goods and civil works
in all procurement financed by the Bank loan (para. 3.32);
(vi)     Borrowint by  ELETROBRAS:  ELETROBRAS  shall  seek  the
concurrence of the Bank for borrowing if: (i) its total
coverage ratio is less than 1.1; or (ii) its ratio of debt
to equity is greater than 601 to 40Z (para. 3.29);
(vi(i)    Financial Performance of ELETROBRAS: ELETROBRAS shall take
all action required to maintain a ratio of financial
investment (loans and other financing granted divided by
total outstanding debt) of not lower than 1 (para. 3.29);
(viii)   Proiect   Limitation:   ELETROBRAS   shall   cause   the
beneficiaries, through the corresponding subsidiary loan
agreements, not to enter into any contractual arrangements
regarding the implementation of new generation and
transmission projects costing in excess of US$200 million
until the projects, respect.ve technical, economic, and
financial justifications have been confirmed in a manner
satisfactory to ELETROBRAS and the Bank (para. 3.38);
(ix)     Financial Performance of the Beneficiaries:  ELETROBRAS shall
cause  the  beneficiaries,  through  the  corresponding
subsidiary loan agreements, to carry out their respective
operations in conformity with agreed operational, financial,
and managerial performance indicators and shall submit
quarterly reports, starting December 31, 1990, in accordance
to agreed reporting requirements (paras. 3.44);
(x)      PROCEL: ELETROBRAS shall carry out in a satisfactory manner
the works, studies and other components included in Part
A of the Electric Energy Conservation Program (PROCEL)
(para. 3.53).
4.02        With the above agreements, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan to the Government of Brazil for US$385 million equivalent, under
terms and conditions applicable to Brazil.



fB.rIW11Y TRXDN aEATlON MD COVATIO  PRO.J8T
Cre  Domtic Produetion of Primrv Enerov
TOE TO_*Rmds
SWC                                170    1971   1972    1973    1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1900    tool   1902    1983    1984   1985    1966    1987
@4O-RDNArAE NEOY                    10256  10551  10461   10481   11587   11328   11408   IS100  11818  1227S  1S830   16529  21464   25560   32487   36930  37611   S7823
Petrolsum                         8009   8818   8158    0296   8648   856M   8S44   8025   8002   8262   9083   1067S  12984   16595  23216   27493  28784   2846S
Natural Cas                        1153   1074    11.^   1076    1357   1482   1498    1649    1763   1732   2011    2257   2763    3660   4471    4986_  5186    5272
Steam Coal                         S99    641    644    589    815    729    934    1071    1324    1876   1463    1884   2153    2308    2605   2572   2448    23S8
metallurgical Coal                 445    S28    527       520    717    547    632    755    829          906    978    713    718        787    821    887       a3     625
Uranium                              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   2846    2269    1374      992    360    1130
RBIAMlE ENERCY                      47008  48340  S1328   53175  36117  58165  60485   64898  66881   72494  78064   78762  b8047  89876   98708  103954  103217  106559
!,Vdroelectricity                 11542  12528  14697   16788   19047  20968  24045   27109   29796   33308  37388   37922  40928  43928  48312  51729  52902  53785
Wood                             81789   31809  32012  S1S20  32191   32789  81372   30409  29367   29814  30607   29809  29127   29727   32677   32138  81772   0710
Sugar Cane Dernvatives            35S6   3773   4221    4561    4535   4105    4662   6417   7166    8067   9081    9955  11844   15056   16842   18589  16796  20221
Other Renewblee                    221    230    298    306    344    358    406           463    552    805    998   1076   1148    1165   1377    1498   1747    1843
TOTAL                         S7344  S8891   61689  6S656  67654  69488  71898   75898  78699  84769  91594   94291  104511  115445  131195  140884  140828  144382
Percent
SOLRCES                              1970   1971   1972    1973   1974    1975   1976    1977    1978    1979   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985   1986   1987
NN4-~A^LE BNCY                      17.9   17.9   17.0   16.5   17.1   16.3   15.9   15.2   15.0   14.5   14.8   16.5   20.5   22.1   24.8   26.2   26.7   26.2
Petroleum                         14.0   14.1   13.2   13.0   12.8   12.3   11.6   10.6   10.2    9.7    9.9   11.8   12.4   14.4   17.7   19.5   20.4   19.7
Natural Ga                         2.0    1.8    1.8    1.7    2.0    2.1          2.1    2.2    2.2    2.0    2.2    2.4    2.6    3.2    8.4             8.5    3.7     3.7
Steam Coal                          1.0    1.1    1.0    0.9    1.2    1.0    1.8          1.4    1.6    1.6    1.6    2.0    2.1          2.0    2.0      1.8    1.7    1.6
Metallurgical Coal                 0.9    0.9    0.9       0.8    1.1    0.8    0.9        1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1    0.8    0.7          0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6       0.4
Uranium                            0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    2.7      2.0     1.0    0.7    0.3    0.8
r^BBtABLE ENRY                      82.1   82.1   88.0   88.5   82.9   83.7   84.1   84.8   85.0   85.5   85.2   88.S   79.5   77.9   75.2   73.8   73.3   73.8
Hylroelactricity                  20.1   21.3   23.8   26.4   28.2   80.2   S3.4   35.7   87.9   39.9   40.8   40.2   89.2   38.1   36.8   36.7   37.6   87.3
Wood                               55.4   S4.0   51.9   49.5   47.6   47.1   43.6   40.1   87.3   85.2   33.4   81.6   27.9   25.7   24.9   22.8   22.6   21.3
Sugar Can* Derivatives             6.2    6.4    6.8       7.2    6.7    5.9       6.5    8.5      9.1    9.5    9.9   10.6   11.3    18.0   12.5   13.2   11.9   14.0
Other Renwablee                    0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.9    1.1    1.1    1.1                 1.0    1.0      1.1    1.2    1.3
TOTAL                          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0



3h2lL
ELTMC1TY TRA MISSION ND C3NSIVATION PRDJECT
Cross Domstic Coneumtion of PrlinrS  Engr
TOE Thomueed
S6O5cEs                            1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1077   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
NOWRIEBIEMALE E90Y                27567  29057  34410  40557  42725  47411  50831  53047  58B46  61616  606S0  58957  60433  59550  64810  66947  71517  74160
Petroleum                       25060  26425  31710  37866  39793  43994  46794  47902  53406  85577  54319  52478  51856  50905  54124  54579  58081  593S1
Natural " a                       169    254    311    260    519    571    627   1083    924    982   1123   1068   1462   2007   2480   3096   3550   4047
Steam Col                         600    606    638    613    628    650    S97    725   1150   1097   1195   1794   2193   2163   2198   2472   2931   2607
metallurgical Coal               1738   1772   1761   1818   1785   2196   2813   3337   3867   38S9   4013   3617   376B   4475   6008   6800   695S   7231
Uranium                             0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0   1154        0      0       0       0    814
REEABLE BERY                      47088  48340  51228  S3175  56117  58165  60485  64398  66881  72494  78064  78762  83047  89876  98708 103954  103217  106559
Hydroelectricity                11542  12528  14697  16788  19047  20983  24045  27109  29796  33808  37383  37922  40928  43928  48312  51729  52902  53785
Wood                            31789  31809  32012  31520  32191  32739  31372  30409  29367  29814  30607  29809  29127  29727  32677  32138  31772  30710                     t
Sugar Cane Derivativoes          3536   3773   4221   4561   4535   4105   4662   6417   7166   8067   9081   9ss  11844  15056  16342  18389  16796  20221
Other Renmables                   221    230    298    306    344    358    406    463    552    805    993   1076   1148   1165   1377   1498   1747   1843
TOTAL                        746515  77397  85638  93732  98842  105576  111316 117445  125727  134009 138714  137719 143480 149426  163518  170901  174734 180719
Psrn
SO1CES                             1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1078   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1W6   1987
NON-RENEABLE ENEROY                36.9   37.5   40.2   43.2   43.2   44.9   46.7   45.2   46.8   45.9   43.7   42.8   42.1   39.9   39.6   39.2   40.9   41.0
Petroleum                        33.6   34.1   37.0   40.0   40.3   41.7   42.0   40.8   42.5   41.S   39.2   38.1   36.1   34.1   33.1   31.9   33.2   32.8
Natural Cas                       0.2    0.3    0.4    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.9    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8    1.0    1.3    1.5    1.8    2.0    2.2
Steam Coal                        0.8    0.8    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.6    0.9    0.8    0.9    1.3    1.5    1.4    1.3    1.4    1.7    1.S
metallurgical Coal                2.3    2.3    2.0    1.9    1.8    2.1    2.5    2.8    2.7    2.9    2.9    2.6    2.6    3.0    3.7    4.0    4.0    4.0
Uranium                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3    0.5
R91EAE ENBiCY                      63.1   62.5   59.8   56.7   56.8   55.1   54.3   54 8   53.2   54.1   56.3   57.2   57.9   60.1   60.4   60.8   59.1   59.0
Hydroelectricity                 15.5   16.2   17.2   17.9   19.3   19.9   21.6   23.1   23.7   25.2   26.9   27.5   28.6   29.4   29.5   30.3   30.3   29.8
Wood                             42.6   41.1   37.4   33.6   32.6   31.0   28.2   25.9   23.4   22.2   22.1   21.6   20.3   19.9   20.0   18.8   18.2   17.0
Sugar Cane Derivatives            4.7    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.6    3.9    4.2    5.6    5.7    6.0    6.5    7.2    8.3   10.1   10.0   10.9    9.6   11.2
Other Renemables                  0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0                   .
TOTAL                        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  ieo.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Soureo Bfraail WE. National nerev Balance. 1988



- 53 -
ANNEX 1.3
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ELECTRIC POWER TARIFFS IN BRAZIL
1.       The marginal cost pricing of electricity is an area of the
Brazilian public policy where considerable analytical work has been done
and progress made on implementation. The Bank began a dialogue on economic
pricing with the Brazilian Government in 1977, commencing with the training
of a small group of power sector staff in the practical estimation and
application of long run marginal cost (LRMC) based prices. Consequently,
over the last decade or so, former pricing policy based on rather arbitrary
accounting costs has been gradually replaced--as agreed under several Bank
loans--by a marginal cost based tariff structure. Impressive results in
electricity conservation have been achieved including most notably, a
dramatic improvement in the shape of the power system load curve, as a
result of the application of peak load pricing (see main text, para. 1.33).
This has resulted in substantial investment savings (see Annex 3.14,
Section A). Currently, the tariff structure is being redefined to reflect
the system's marginal cost structure even more closely, while tariff levels
continue to be influenced significantly by financial, political and social
considerationit. This Annex describes and analyzes power tariffs in
Brazil, focusing on: (i) the historical background of the present system;
and (ii) the pricing criteria underlying the current structure.
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
2.       Until 1974, power tariffs varied among regions mainly according to
the accounting cost of supply.  The tariff structure consisted basically of
arbitrarily allocated fixed charges associated with capacity costs and
energy charges associated with operating costs. Rate levels were based
exclusively on financial, political and social considerations.
3.       In 1974 the Brazilian government made tariff levels and structures
uniform throughout the country, regardless of local differences in supply
costs. The Global Guarantee Fund (GGF), financed through a surcharge of up
to 2Z on assets in operation of all utilities, was used to ensure that all
companies earned the minimum legal rate of return on remunerable assets
(102). In 1981, because of deteriorating tariffs, revenues shortfalls, and
sub-legal returns on remunerable assets since the late 1970s, the
Government changed the GGF role: financial resources were transferred to
ensure that all companies earned the rate of return common to the sector
(see para. 28).
4.       Also in 1974, tariff increases began to be differentiated in
favour of domestic consumers. In 1979, this policy was complemented and
reinforced with the introduction of a system of increasing block rates for
residential customers. This policy has been updated several times since
then, each time either creating new consumption blocks or widening the gap



- 54 -
Electric peor Notne I 8resll Fe e.*. P   2
between the different block rates, and always in such a way that small
consumption levels have been favoured in relation to larger ones. As a
result of the continuous application of this policy, the relationship
between the rates charged to different consumer categories has been changed
drastically. The average residential tariff, for example, is today only
about one third of the sector average tariff, whereas it used to be almost
twice as large during the first part of the 1970. (see Tables 1 and 2). I/
5.       Beginning in 1976, power tariffs began to decline in real terms.
Under the Influence of government programs that specifically treated
utility pricing as an anti-inflationary tool, power tariff increases began
to be routinely lower than the cost increases that made them necessary (see
Tables 1 and 2).
6.       Furthermore, this declining trend was accentuated even more in
December, 1982, when the power sector changed its billing system. The
original billing system in which a new set of tariffs is applied to all
consumption being billed inmediately after its promulgation was changed to
a syetem in which consumption is prorated and one part is billed using the
former tariffs (the part that is assumed to have been consumed b, re the
date of promulgation of the increase) and only the remaining part is billed
using thee new tariffs. The application of the original system always
resulted in average tariffs slightly larger than those written into the
decrees. For example, during the period 1976-1982, 'power tariffs billed'
(PTB)--the power tariffs actually billed to the customers--were about 62
higher than the 'published power tariffs, (PPT)--the power tariffs
published in DNAZe's *Porterias'. On the other hand, because of the length
of the billing cycle--the systems' required time for reflecting a whole
tariff increase in all bills, the application of the new system always
results in PTB that are lower than the PPT. In the case of Brazil where
almost 60 days pass before the whole increase is reflected in all bills,
and where inflation has remained at such a high levels for most of the
years under analysis, the change in the billing system has resulted in a
significant additional subsidy to all customers of the electrical sector,
and further weakned its own finances. During the period 1983-1989, for
example, PTB were only 902 of the power tariffs written into the decrees.
In 1989 (from January to September), a period when inflation has
accelerated, the billing cycle effect has reduced PTB to about 742 of their
published value. (Table 2 shows the evolution of Brazilian PTB.)
7.       The use of power tariffs as an anti-inflationary weapon and the
change in the billing cycle produced a progressive deterioration of the
sector average tariff. Since the declining trend began in 1976. the
average PTB has lost 302 of its real value (272 when the comparison is mad.
between the periods 1974-1976 and 1987-1989). as may be seen in Table 2.
1/ The comparison of electric power rates with other countries also
illustrate the sharp decline of Brazilian residential rates, both in
absolute and relative terms. According to ELETROBRAS' international
comparison of 22 selected countries, Brazil had the third largest
residential tariff in 1973 but the lowest one in 1988. See ELETROBRAS
(1988), Co.paracao InternDcional de Tarifas de Energia Eletrics
197311988, Dezembro.



E#VXITZ84 OF BAZILIAN PUDS PH        TARIFFS (U5$6/M1H)  1/ 2/                                                                                                                                             IAE:
W* esoa Ma, 1969  3/                                                                                                                                                                                      S1-Oct4
C      N l  s   U   N  E               C    A  T    E   C   o    R  
YEAR    --
Al         A2           A3          U          As         A 4/      81C3SrH  31<81<100   101<1(8o  201(n31(00  018>001           0l41          62          e3         gm          8 4/      (AnD) 4/
1Q74        20.09       23 43       30.13       40.17      113.e2       30.87      107.13      107.13      107.13      107.13      107.13      107 13      113 82      113.82       16.74      101.14       57.z.
1975        26.16       28.80       39.27       47.13       25. 67      37.36      120 43  1*   43         220.43      120.43      120.43      120 43      12- 43      125 67       34.04      114 07       66.1l
1976        24.10       29.66       S7.07       46.34      123.34       3677   n14.92          114.92      114.92      114.92      114.92      114 92      7e 7o      12  34        36.22      107 6e       63.3(
1977        24.69       28.W9       38.9        46.76      114.36       36.77      106. 6      106.86      106.6       106.56      106.6       106.56 8f     8 a7      114.36       32.49       99.78       60 44.
1976        24.36       29.04       39.35       47.76       6".5S       36.61       97.43       97. 43      97.4,       97.43       07.43       97 43      6V 70       105 86      31.85        91.S1       s7 44
179        26.17       29.60       40.77       45.64       63.89       36.24      6e.76         9.6e       n.6.0                   99.60D      93 74       cJ 46      107 71      84.0         90.22       W6.48
196         23.63       29.79       41.03       46.20       63.22        6.62       5.32        63.69       63.19       05.41       63.41       76 67       52 26      111.00      34.04        81.70       63.65
1981        30.70       33.33       48.06       83.87       70.52       43.23       41.85       77.76       77.76      100.53      100.83       73 96       52 85      111.21      a3.4s        so.35       57.15
192        29.64       34.16       45.27       32.96       66.31       42 02       36.53       70.69       70.69       93.95       95.95       69 66      52 64       108.70       34.60       75 94       54.74
19e3        28.w9       32.95       42.82       48.47       63.12       39 43       33.48       64 77       64 77       67.91       67.91       64 ol       47 30       99 se       31.76       69.58       50.74
1964        28.04       32.34       42 01       47.3        64.30       38 61       31.26       6l.86       61.58       82.76       82.76       60 56       45 41       96.23       30.48       66. 44      49.1
1905        29.49       34.01       44. to      3.21        66.82       41.18       26 69       W339        53.39       63.04       63e04       S5.03       42 50       97.35       So 77       63.35       49.4
196         31.00       33 75       46 43       83.63       72.35       43.29       21.79       44.83       46.67       76.81       78.21       48 11       37 &5      102.16       27.39       59 92       49.50
1967        34.94       40.30       56 96       60.66       81.54       49.18       19.79       31 46       60.00      106.42      123.84       62.32       49 52      113 07       27 66       72 43       57 OIL
1966        3S.03       37.67       62 91       69.82       60.62       52.03       15.74       40.s3       W0.4"      111.70      12B.99       56 93       64 32      116.29       32.66       70.69       89.07
1909 s/     28.27       32.24       54.S4       60 83       63.51       43.01       12.33       32.06       39.33      9W.i3       114.07       47 06       51 92       ss.e3       28 12       39.63       50.5<
1/ Source:  0A' Port4r.
2/ Power to,iffs EXCLLOE teee  and coup.loory loans.
3/ 6xengsno rate. US88 00 . 1C21.1008
4/ Weihted *eerae bd or the pe,contmal partic.pation in the fit.kt of each coanu_r cat.epry
S/ Estoatoe bl.4d on tr.nff ap pro,d until Septebe  20D  1989.
EVOUJLUrI  OF BRAZLIAN P0W  TARIFFS 1L1.ED (US/WM)  2/ 2/                                                                                                                                                 TAM
US$ as of mty. 1999  3/                                                                                                                                                                                   31-oct-S8
C  O  N   S  U N    E  R               C    A  T    E  G     o     R  Y
YEAR   -------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------------- - - - - - -- - -- -        _ - --- - ------ - -.---_--- - --------        -- - --------- - ------- - - - - - -
Al         A2          A3          A4          As         A 4/      81(3866    31(81<100  1010141200 201(<81(O0  81>3l3          81 4/         B2          B3          84         8 4/      (A#9) 4/
1974        24.86       29 03  .  37.32         49 7S      141 00       38.24      132.70     12.70       1  .70      12.70       132.70      132.70      141 00      141.00       20.73      125.28      70.6e
1975        30.21       33.23       45.31       54.37      144.99       43.10      13.95       138.95      1,1.95      11.95       138.95     1i6.95       138 95      144 99       39.27      131.61       76 2.
197s        25.99       31.98       39.96       49.97      131.93       39.65       23 94      123 94      12394       12.94       In.9S4       3.94        es 66      131. 93      37.9    0 l        13  63 3.
1977        26.23       30.38       41 42       49 71      121.5l       39.06      113.22      1S3.22       WM3.23     113.22      113.22      113.22       73.18      121.51       34.52      106.02       U4 r
1978        21 95       So 95       41.03       50.91       69.6e       39.2S      103.82      1S.62       106.62      1O3.62      108.82      103.82       67 as      112. W       33 94       97 U4       61.2.
279         27.13       29.68       42.28       47.32       66.25       37.50       71n.0      103 46      105.48      108.46      106.48       97.21       63 73      111 6       36.34       93.S6       se. 
1908        26.81       30 91       42.38       47 94       6S 60       S3.21       57.40       67 o0       67.06       66.63       GB.63       61.63       54.25      113.19      3S.33 84 78             5s  1
1961        32 76       37 73       51.33       57.52       73.30       46.16       44.69       630.6       63.03      107.        107.13       81.13       66 44      118.75       37.66       63.7"       6l 4.
1982        31.02       35.75       47 39       ss 45       69 41       43.96       38.24       73 99       7S.99      100.44      100.44       73.15       14 06      113 78       36 22       79 40       57 7
1983        28.17       32 48       42.20       47 77       64.18       36.67       32.9e       63.6        63.84       66.6e       a6.6s       6es o       46 62       98.15       31.30       60.58       80 .
1964        26.39       30 45       39 5s       45.04       60.53       36.54       29 43       s7.97       s7.97       77.91       7. 91       57. 01      42 76       9o s5       20.69       62.63       46.2-
1968        28.74       33 is       43 07       49 92       67 09       40.14       26.02       82.04       e2.04       60.94       60.94       ss."        41 43       94 89       20 99       61 73       48.2'
1906        27.06       31 21       40 54       46 o        63.15       37.79       19.02       39.13       89.67       67.08       63.27       42.00       32.34       89 18       23.91       52.31       43.2.
1987        31.85       36 73       51 92       55.31       74.33       44.83       16.04       46.91       54.70       96.64      111.32       36.61       45 14      104 89       25.23       66.02       62 7t
1988        28.62       32.65       54.52       60.e1       69 67       45 09       136.4       36 47       43.78       96.60      111.78       49 34       52.27      1oo 79       28.32       61.26       al 1.
1989 S/     20 84       23 77       40.21       44.85       50.52       33.19        9.09       28.64       29.18       70.13       64.11       34 72       38.23       73 61       20.73       43a98       37.:..
~~--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -    ----- -   -   -  -- -  -   -  ---    -  -  _ -    - -    -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -  -- - - - - --- - - -
1/ So..Ce  O4AEb Porte',.e
2/ Po-, t...ff. EXCL.DE to..a ond coow.lery lon.
3/ E.ehn.g  rato  L118 00 . NCZSI 1008
41 We,gted *nera64 blsed on the p*,er*tqol pe't-pv8t-on  - the m,k,t of asch cen8-u  caStegory
5/ Eatet.. ....  OFd P. t-1f  soppOed  Sot. I Spt.eb  20. 1989i
4..



- 56 -
Electrlc Po"er Rates In Brazil                                 AUX 1.8, Page 4
8.       In 1987, to protest the low level of tariffs, the power companies
of important states in the South and Southeast regions, as instructed by
their respective owners, refused to contribute to the GGP. The Govirnment
responded to this crisis by creating a new transfer mechanism (the National
Conpensation Reserve for Remuneration--RENCOR), which restricted the
demands that could be placed on the financially stronger companies--i.e..
no transfer of financial resources was required of any company if its
return on remunerable assets was below 122. In addition, it was also
agreed that the rates of remuneration of the four major ELETROBRAS
subsidiaries would be less than the legal minimum (102) target level
formerly used in establishing their bulk supply tariffs.
9.       A policy initiated in 1987 of tariff levels recuperation collapsed
in 1989, after an initial success (see the main text, paras. 1.36 to 1.40).
As shown in Table 2, the estimated 1989 PTB (US$37.24/MWH) is significantly
lower than the observed average for the period 1987-88 (US$51.971JWH),
which in turn compares satisfactorily with the observed 1984-86 average PTB
(US$45.92). However, even the observed 1987-88 average PTB is smaller
(842) than the level observed from 1981 to 1983 and much smaller (only 66Z)
than the level observed from 1974 to 1976. In addition, the significant
increase of real investment costs in the electrical power sector has
widened the gap between current tariffs and economic costs. This fact and
the substantial losses made by the sector during those periods in which the
differential between costs and tariffs was much wider, helps to explain the
difficult financial situation of the Brazilian power sector.
Prices, Taxes and Compulsory Loans
10.      Brazilian electricity bills include: (i) a basic component that
results from multiplying the metered consumption by the corresponding basic
tariff; (ii) a consumption tax; and (iii) only for industrial consumers, a
compulsory loan to the power sector. Until January 1989, the electricity
consumption tax was a federal tax (the Imposto Unico de Energia
Eletricam--IUEE), uniformly applied in the whole country.  Beginning in
February, 1989, it has been a state tax (the *Imposto a la Circulacao de
Mercaderias e Servicose--ICMS) that varies from one state to another. The
compulsory loan is an obligatory investment scheme under which industrial
consumers using more than 2,000 KWH per month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds
(20-year maturity yielding 62 annual interest and revalued through monetary
adjustments).. industrial customers are elegible for discounts that are
directly proportional to the customer's electricity consumption. These
discounts may be as high as 98?. 2,
11.      As shown in Tables 3 and 4, 'published power prices" (PPP), the
average published cost of electricity to the customer--i.e., the price that
results from dividing revenues resulting from published tariffs, taxes and
compulsory loans by consumption--and 'power prices billed' (PPB). the
average cost of electricity actually billed to the customer--. i.e., the
price that results from dividing revenues resulting from tariffs, taxes and
2/ The repayment of compulsory loans and their corresnonding interest
charges are negligible, because of high inflation ates and the
monetary adjustment mechanism.



ElRltb oF OmnumsAt  E DLM           FIVE  PRICES I/ V/                                                                                                                                                  TAUS 3
UJ1 so of ,ty 190s 3/                                                                                                                                                                                 31-  es-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                             ____-    -   _-  __- -    __- ____- .__- __- -- -,_-- -__------------------------------
c   o  l4  s  u        E  R            C  A  T    E  c  o  R    Y
V>R~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ----    __-_______                         ----_-----           ------------------------------------------------------- --
Al         A2          A3          A4          As        A 4/      bAldIN     VIM<=           101<8CK2tl  201<01000 91)>300MM  el 41         Er          W.          4         B 4/      (A.8) 4/
_   _    -__    _-----_   --   _  _  ----. -- _ ___ . _--- _----_ _-- -- -**-*¢- . . ----- .---          --- ------- ------- ---   --- ------  ------- --   ---- ------  
1974        3985        45.38       30.42      e2.5s      tsu.e E00.9S            Loe.78     INe."       IN9."       INs."       l3e 44     s3  07      11a 42      'ls EC,     1- is       la 35       74.22
e9n         47.33       62.e1      40.2e       N0.U       IS6. 5       58.2n      WM.        IN. 4S      1S.43       IW 4S      l53 43      U47 16      1X2 eP      16C CS      34 '7      140 66       ee.17
ion         *2.SD       47.ea      s06.2       e4.Je      V.e          5 3.S3    111.2b      u 1.se      ul1.3e      Ul.f9       U4s.59     135 ee      7-s OP       . F4(4     34 94      128.2B       St 62
e977        40.4e      44. S       4e. e        2. 65    1u4.88        s2.0e     107.03      .eAs        181.03      1SI.0S     131.es      127 oD       CU I e     I"4 ee      32 63      229 f6       n7.49
197e        ".Os        49.71      46.71       e7.45      101.17       U. 7B      97.4S       U7.I        WAI4       UVAI       17.41       121 Sf       6a  (l     141 4f      31 es      125 37       7e.13
s979        44.08       *7.20       5o.e2      e4.36       97.1E       54.14       es.48     U7.67       W2.67       UW.67        W7.67      116 13      tl 42      141.29       34.16      112.22      7s.e2
sseo        40.72        4. 73      4e.19      es.20       90.ee       u1.2e       u8.40     10e.16      10erdse     1o.40       109.40      9e 17       5, :.1     134.53       34 os      99.35       6e.2s
29e3        4e.e "      S,7         se.oo      7-0.01     10teu        59.84       41.ee      102.eD     102.9       la. 254S   12.43        96.15       52 83      141 12       35 "4     10o 07       7 .so
aee2        46.S2       $1.01       54.59      e8.62       97. 39      67.07       So. Be     94.7e       94.7B      120.02      120.1 el     o 25       !11 t4     13- C0       3-4 -A     94 95       71.Te
19es        40. I       " 44.       48.52      eo.os       eJ6.62      50.e2       3a.44      e2.80       e2.eo      105.72      105.72      7S.36       47 0       12C, 9e      3' 1s      e3.e5       e3.01
1er4        311.52      42.el       47.17      Bfe. 3       3. es      4B.93       s1.2B      77.97       77.97       eB*eew      "e.41      73 69       4- E41     its so       30 48      79.26       60.ao
19e6        99.92       44.43       49.31      t . .64     98.06       $1.25       26.70      e9.42       N. 42       ". 07       "9.07      67 94       42 Ml      Ile 59       30 n7      76 00       60.53
Mee         42.4S       47.18       52.0e      eU.27       9s.44       u4.sa       21.7e      e2.42       es.26       04 40       95.B0D     62 2n       37 os      123 2%       27 39      73.8D       ea.es
19s7        44.S4       49.70      4I. so      7C.09       9Be0       se.26       19.79       u5.92       74.4e      u2.es      1M.6.        73 97       4 953     132 4l1      27 68       e.3.e4      e7.e5
ees         4s. "       47.72      e7.41       7e.9s       97.50       e1.48      15.74       F4.99       B4.52     11s.7s      1U3.04       6e.25       60- 32    133 l 7      32 68.      el 78       6e.09
e99s/s    42.e8         47.1       es.01       79.92       84.e3       e1.10      12.5e       41.22       49.97      116.04     137.21       57 72      Ut 7tj    121.29        32.90       ns 2        65S8B
_   ---- _       _      _   .__----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -- -_ -_ _                   _ -_ ---------- ------------------ ---- ---- .------ ----------------- -_-
I/ Soure: DWE    Pb*rtei..
2/ Por orie.. VCW  b_ic tariffs tooo and  _Mlory lae.
s/ Exhs "rrto: US1.00 * MI.reee
4/ Woiotd *vter    bood an the poreentul p.aticip*tion in the tret f  *eac coew  r caee
S/ Etim   based rm  Xtaiffs wrorved "tn6 I S ptore 20, 19e9.
Ewmm          oF MMMAM PWR  PRICE  lULED  I/ 2/                                                                                                                                                         TABLE 4
USO as of O4y. 1909 3/                                                                                                                                                                                31-O.v-M
C  o  Of  S  U  N  E  R                C  a  T    E  C  D  R    Y
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -__ -     _- __ - __ - __--- -  _--_-_--_----------- - ------ ---------- ----- - -
19eT        49.s7       5e.21       s7.e9       77.4e     11s7.81)     es.ls 1          In2,  12.74      12.74       12.74       172.74      Iu4.es      40.50      187. OD      2l.25      asW.ss      e .l4
19715       M-. el      eo.0        " 4e.7       9. 77    192.27       e7.23      139.91      177.02     177.02      177.02      177.02      le9 78     139.34      192.27       40.11      162.29     seR2.e
19"e        4.6.e       ss.ee       41.65       69.41     1W.5P5       a7.84      u.0x       1S2.N9      1W.69       152.e9      a2.e9      34U.S2       as.28      1e6. 7       37 6es     u.34        ee.c2
19n         42.9W       47.5 LB     4.92       ee.a?      Xb.94        es.ss      11u.n      1U0.07      140.07      14e o7      140.07      1114.4      73.50      1ss st4      34.a?      12.35       02.34
29Te        4e.92       Ss.90        s.90o      71.e7     1D7.e1       59. "4     10s.2      15. 7e      135.7e      inS.76      135.76     UM.e3        a7.68      ISO 7        33 94      Uq2 94      ea.25
1979        4s. r       4e.e7       s1.e7       66.74     IOD. 75      ee.u1       n1.oX      12.39      1W.S9       uW.30       132.3C      U0f         es e9      U46 sl       35e5 s      16.s7      711.73
19eD        42.95       46. "       50.01      ea.51       94.29       bS.29       a7.e6     112.24      112.24      11u.ss      113.5S     1O e.        e4 is      U39 6'       35.ss      lOS.10      71.91
so9 5.u           s4.se       so.eoD     74.7e      107.S2       e2.es      44.7S      109.77      209.77      ina.        I ae93     1e2.ee       so 41      150 Go      37.e4      109.es       7e.34
1902        4e.49       56.90       a7.14      71.es       U09f        eo.s8       a0.24      99.22       ". k       us.e2       us.62       9s.42       s40 DS        "4 03     36.25       99.3s      73.23
lerd        as.seB      40.90       *7.e2       -9.        e.n         49.09       s2.s"      81.42       $1 L42     104.20      U04.20       7.24       4e.62      lig 24       31 29      e2.45       e2.10
1se4        ae.2e       40.as        4. 40     54.91       78.73       46.07       29.4a      73.40       7S.40       S3.09       9S.09      69.a7       42.7s      I08 e2       2a 69      74.U        se.7n
lea5        se.so       4a.ss       4e.07?      eo.0e      es.e4       4e. e       2e.8       e7.e7       a.a7        se.se       96.se      ee.2s       42.AS      l13 65       29 w       74.09       59.01
s96         a7.04       41.19       45 4e      as.s        e s.57      47.43       19.02      34.49       55.22       e2.41       83.63      "4.se       32.34      U07.60       23 'DI     64 42       aJ.aoD
29e7        40.42       45.3t       We.14      es. e9      90.S is     5.11        U8.04      60.U0       a.ee       1U2.03      124.71      67 43       45.15      uo 70        25.23       76 4s      el.es
1*9         So Jes      *X.ae       58.42      es.42       e4.50       bs.2e       13t.e4     47.es       Ss 91      108.9e      Lo.s97      59. is      52 28      115 42       2e 32      70.es       sg.ee
loee S/     31.3s       a4.N        47.e4      50.93       e2.42       45.05        9.2e0     se 40       3e.s4       e4.e3      U0l.17      42.S6       "Ale        69 44       2 .26      53 4e   4.21
_ _   _   _ - - - _ _ - _ - - - -.- - _  - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ - - - - _ _ _ _  - _ _ _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _  ----------_  _   ---------------    -  -   ----   -  ---  -    ---------  -------------
S/ Sorsre: WME's Porsori6.
2/ Ame Prices DCADE b eic farifft. be.e _  nd compulsory low.
S/ Escage  "be: 1.15tl.OO * M=1.1OC
4 Weighted * ermv b*4164 an the p re ntul prarticiPstien in tho _rth*t of each crnw_, Caegtotryr.
S/ Estiate b*@ d en tsImpWa vproedr unti I Seotemb*r 20. 19es. 8v



- 58 -
Electric P.,.. Raes In Brazil                                  ANEX 1.a, PageO
compulsory loans billed by consumption--ha'.e evolved along the same path
followed by power tariffs (published and billed). However, as shown in
Table 5, the fiscal load (the sum of taxes and compulsory loans only)
attached to tariffs exhibits a decreasing trend from 1974 to 1988. The
participation of the basic tariff component in the average price of
electricity went from 72? in 1974 to 852 in 1988, regardless of the
decrease in real tariffs discussed earlier. Furthermore, because part of
the revenues collected through taxation ware transferred to the power
sector, this policy reinforced the negative effects of tariff reductions.
thus aggravating the financial situation of the sector.
12.      It is expected that even keeping the compulsory loan participation
constant at its 1988 (lowest) level of about 5, the powers transferred by
the new Constitution to the states to.set electricity taxes, will increase
the share of the fiscal load in the final price to a percentage of about
30? in 1989. However, it is not yet clear what part of this increase, if
any, will be transferred to the power sector.
13.      On the other hand, the new fiscal load structures are relatively
simple and homogeneous. Most structures being currently applied by the
states have a unique rate--generally equivalent to 172 or 252 of the bill,
subject to two or three exceptions--generally residential and rural
consumption up to 30 or 50 KWH/hh-m. Only & few states have opted for more
complex fiscal structures that include, for example, different taxes for
electricity used by an industry as an input and electricity used by the
same industry in Pother* uses, or a whole set of tax brackets that varies
with the amount of electricity consumed.
PRICING CRITERIA 3/
14.      The Brazilian electric power tariff policy, as explicit or
implicitly stated in the most recent literature on the subject 4/ , aims at
achieving four general objectives: economic efficiency, financial
equilibrium, regional homogeneity, and social equity. Economic efficiency
is included by defining a tpriff struvture that reflects the system's LRMC
structure. Financial equilibrium is established by setting tariff levels
based upon the principle of service-at-cost plus an adequate return on
capital invested. Regional homogeneity is assured by establishing uniform
national tariffs, regardless of regional cost differences. Social equity
is taken into account by applying increasing block rates to residential
3/ The regulation of electricity rates ir Brazil is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) which exercises its authority
through the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e.Energia Eletrica (DNAEE).
However, since 1981 DNAEE's responsibility has been greatly redLced by
transferring the authority for final tariff approval to the Secretaria
de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica (SEPLAN).
4/ See, for instancet the 1934 Water Code, with its amendments: Decree No.
86.463 Octoher 13. ]Q9I: R1itt (1986 and 1988), DNAEE (1985 and 1988),
and REVISE (1988a, 1988b and 1989a).



eV8UJtXU OF BAZILIANd PUA  TARIFS Alt A P8CD AETA  OF WAZILI*4 PWS PRtICES                                                                                                                           TAK.E S
____   -------------__----_ _ -----_ -*------_______ _ _-------------------     --------------------  -   --
C O N S  U   E R                      C A T E C O  R Y
YE,k    ---      -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -    _   -   -   -  -   -    _   -   -                                        -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ __-
Al         A2          AS         A4          A         A S/      81cc4  s 3141100   10141a<00  2011lcc  81)0a0o4           el 3/         82         83          84           3/     (4.3 3/
1974           s0         52         100          U          75          61        1OD          77         77          77         77          el        100          7S        IO0          80         72
175             5         55         1O0         6a          75          64        loo          78         78          78         76          82        1o0          75        100          el         74
1976           57         62         100         72          79          69        too          e1         a1          el         82          85        100          79        100          04         78
977            61         64          ea         75          79          71        100         *1          81          1l         el          84        100          79        100          me         78
197           65          60                     71          65                    t 100       78          76          n          76          80        100          75        100          so         74
197959                    61          e2          71         6           67        100         78          76          78         78          e1        10           76        loo          e0         74
1960           63         67          e5         75          70          72        ICO         78          7e          78         78          80        1OU          63        lo          82         r
1961           65         69          86          77         70          73        100         7n          76          so         00          79        100          79        100          60         7'
192            64         67          83         77          6e         73         100         76          75         80          00          78        10D          79        1oo          e0         78
196            71         74          so         81          7s          78        100         76          78          as         as          82        100          82        loo          83         el
1984           73         76          89         82          77         79         100         79          79          84         84          a2        100         as         1O0          04         82
1968           74         77          90         83          78         so         100         77          77          84         84         8l         100          83        100          82         82
198            73         76          s9         82          77         0o         loo         72          72          81         82          77        100          a3        100          81         6
1967           79         el          92         87          82         84         1oo         78           l          es         09          04        200          07        100          86         as
1960           75         79          93         e8          es         aS         1oo         74          78          89         90          s3        100          87        100          66         el
1989           B6         68          84         76          el         74         1oo         78          79          es         as          82         85         82          85          82         77
I'
,.



- 60 -
Electrle Power Rates In Brazil                                 A*= 1.0, Pse 5
consumption and subsidizing rural customers, public lighting and water
companies. Since these objectives often conflict with one another, it has
been necessary to accept certain trade-offs among them. These trade-offs
have changed through time to reflect changes in the relative importance
attached by society, to each objective.
15.      Currently, the Brazilian electric power sector has both an uniform
tariff structure and uniform tariff levels. 5/ The tariff structure is
being redefined (as agreed under several Bank loans) to reflect the
system's marginal cost structure, while tariff levels continue to be based
mainly upon financial, political and social considerations.
Long Run Marginal Costs and Economic Efficiency
16.      Econom.ic efficiency is a main objective of electricity pricing in
Brazil since 1977, when the development of a new tariff slstem began
through an agreement of technical cooperation between DNAEE and ELETROBRAS,
with the participation of all power utilities, with Bank jupport under
provisions of Loan 1300-BR, and Electricite de France (IdeF) consultancy
services. This study was completed in March, 1979 and an improved and
updated version was received by the Bank in September, 1981. The first
step to implement marginal cost based tariffs in the Brazilian power sector
was taken by the issuance of Decree No.86,463 on October 13, 1981. 6/ Since
then, implementation of marginal cost pricing has been advancing
progressively, following a better understanding of the principles in the
power sector, and a radical change of attitude towards its acceptance and
use.
17.      With the beginning of the implementation of LRMC based tariffs,
rate levels began to be adjusted progressively in the direction of marginal
costs. One of the first results of this policy application, was that
relatively larger increases were authorized for the energy component than
for the demand component, which produced higher average tariffs for
consumers with larger load factors. Currently, most consumers connected at
high and medium voltage levels are already paying marginal cost based
tariffs.
Methodology
18.      The marginal cost pricing methodology being used is based in the
approach developed bv EdeF and includes the definition of a set of
5/  The only exception    tn. .spilica.ion of tariffs 15t higher in isolated
systems.
6/  Decree No.86,463 sayb tnat DNAEE should distribute the cost of service
between a demand (KW) and an energy (KWH) charge. in such a way that
each group of consumers pay for the fraction from which it is
responsible. It also authorizes DNAEE to establish hourly, seasonal or
user-related differences in the tariffs, as well as to change metering
and billing practices.



- 61 -
Electric Power Rot.. in Brazil                                 AMEX 1., Paeg 9
reference tariffs that closely reflects the calculated LRMC structure. 7/
By considering the power sector as a single unit (^empresa virtual unica"),
the Brazilian power sector adopted a modified methodology that suppressed
all regional costs differences and produced a unique set of reference
tariffs for the whole country. The resulting tariff structure
distinguishes between bulk supply tariffs and tariffs to final consumers,
which in turn are divided into three groups according to the voltage level
at which they are connected to the system. In addition, each group and its
related set of tariffs is identified by a specific color: blue, green and
yellow.
Bulk Supply Tariffs
19.      Bulk Supply Tariffs (BST) are applied to all energy and power
being bought and sold between electric power companies. During the last
decade, BST have been about 402 to 502 of its economic cost. 8/ A process
of gradual implementation of BST based on marginal costs began in Janeiro,
1989, and is expected to be completed in January, 1990--at least from the
point of view of the structure. Currently, BST are about 602 of their
economic cost.
20.      It is expected that the introduction of marginal cost based
tariffs for the bulk supply of electricity, will help the Brazilian power
sector tot (i) make planning and operations activities more coherent; (11)
reflect in the bulk supply prices the economic consequences of decisions
regarding the administration, planning, and operation of the different
companies: (ii) distribute among the different companies involved the
benefits resulting from these transactions; and (iv) create incentives for
private investment--through the provision of rational reference prices for
private generation.
Blue Tariff
21.      The Blue Tariff is the set of tariffs to be applied to the largest
consumers, i.e. those demanding a maximum power equal or larger than 500
KW. These tariffs are specifically designed for consumers with high load
factors, connected to high (69 KV or more) or medium voltage levels (2.3 to
44 KW). They are hourly and seasonal tariffs, with demand charges for peak
and off-peak hours and energy charges for dry peak, wet peak, off-peak dry,
and off-peak wet hours. bmplementation of the Blue Tariff began in 1982 as
an option available to selected customers, was made mandatory for them in
1986 and was completed in 1987. Currently there are more than 6,000 of
these consumers, responsible for about 502 of all electricity consumption.
and paying about 402 of all revenues collected by the sector.
7/ See DNAEE (1985) for an excellent presentation of this methodology and
its application to the Brazilian Power Sector.
SI See REVISE (nd), p.21.



- 62 -
Electric Powr Res In Srezll                                   AM  1.8, Poge 10
Grtee Tariff
22.      The Green Tariff is the set of tariffs to be applied to medium
size consumers, i.e. those demanding a maximum power equal or larger than
50 KW, but smaller than 500 KW. The Green Tariff is an intermediate step
between the more elaborated hourly and seasonal Blue Tariff and the
conventional systems in the Yellow Tariff. Consumers in this category,
usually connected to medium voltage levels (2.3 to 44 KV), have two
optionst (i) a conventional two-part tariff (with charges for energy and
power), basically designed for consumers unable to adjust their load; and
(ii) a hour-seasonal tariff (with a relative low demand charge applicable
only to off-peak hours, and strongly differentiated energy charges for dry
peak, wet peak, off-peak dry, and off-peak wet hours), designed for
consumers who have the potential to improve their load factors but may
experience difficuLies in making it permanent. A process of gradually
implementing the hourly and seasonal version of the Green Tariff began in
1988, and is scheduled to be completed in 1991. Meanwhile, consumers
classified in this category are being billed with the two-part version-
-which is also a marginal cost based tariff. Currently, nearly 50,000
consumers classified in this category are responsible for about IOZ of all
electricity consumption and pay about 152 of all revenues collected by the
sector.
Yellor Tariff
23.      The Yellow Tariff is the set of tariffs to be applied to small
consumers, i.e. those demanding a maximum power smaller than 50 KS.
Consumers in this category will probably be differentiated by final use, as
followst residential, public lighting, rural and others. Residential
consumers will be charged based on a system of block tariffs with
increasing energy charges; public lighting based on a single tariff; and
rural and others based on a conventional tariff with an unique energy
charge. However, those customers able to adjust their loads will be given
the option of a hour-differentiated tariff with energy charges for peak and
off-peak hours, especially designed to encourage savings during those hours
at which demand is larger. Consumers in this category will be the current
30,000,000 consumers (of which 25 millions or more are residential)
connected at low voltage levels, which are responsible for about 402 of all
electricity consumption, and pay about 452 of all revenues collected by the
sector.  Implementation of the Yellow Tariff is scheduled to begin in
January 1990, and be completed in 1991.
Existing Tariffs
24.      The relationships between LRMC and what has been defined as the
average 'published power price" (PPP) (see para. 11) and the average "power
price billed" (PPB) (see para. 11), as of September 19, 1989, is shown in
Tables 9 and 10 for each consumer category and for Brazil as whole.
Overall, the average PPP is already in line with LRMC (see Table 6).
However, the tariff adjustment mechanism whi a exists in Brazil, combined
with the high rate of inflation, means that the average PPB is only 652 of
the LRMC (see Table 7).



RGINAL COSTS AM PULISNED PRICES AS OF SEPTEMBER 19, 1989  1/ 2/                                                         TABLE 8
31-Oct-89
CONSUMlER CATEG¢RY                       6MHBER OF CONSUM S 8/ ANIWAL CONSUWTION 4/ MARGINAL AVERAGE DEVIATION
COST   PRICE 6/ FROM MC
CODE           TYPE               VOLTAGE LEVEL          No.           X        0           1      US$/ M3H  USS/MIN     x
Al     Mainly Industrial                     230KV            89        0.0    21,881       10.8    44.76    40.74       -9.0
A2     Mainly Industri  al            138KV to OMKV          4B8        0.0    42,188       21.3    48.40    44.46       -8.1
A3     Mainly Industrial               a0mV to BSKV          904        0.0    10,371        5.2    50.90    52.29        2.7
A4     Mainly Industrial              2.8KV to 2SKV       76,701        0.8    46,728       24.8    63.99    69.90       40.6
As    Industrial & Others              Undergroung           997        0.0     1,222        0.8    69.07    110.69      60.1
A           Average           High & Medium Voltge        79,077        0.8   128,868       82.6    54.32    83.00       18.0
e1        Residontial             First 80K13/month    4,044,855       13.6       888        0.4   106.92    30.29    -71.4
e1        Residential            31 to 100(KH/month    7,668,664       25.6     8,061        8.1   104.86    38.90    -67.6
e1        Reidential            101 to 2001(H/month    8,865,484       29.2    14,772        7.5   102.20    43.91      -67.0
81        Residential           201 to 3001(31/month    2,961,118       9.9     8,943        4.6    98.75    84.60    -34.6
81        Residential                 >300K1H/month    1,971,824        6.8    12,914        8.6    92.25    116.69      25.4
e1      All Residential                 Low Voltage   26,818,898       86.2    48,628       22.0    98.95     67.82    -31.6
B2           Rural                     Low Voltage    1,162,980         8.9     4,824        2.2   123.67    74.95    -39.4
Ba      Non-residential                Low Voltage    8,128,186        10.5    19,658        9.9    98.80   144.09       49.6
B4      Public Lighting                 Low Voltage       14,027       0.0      6,911        8.6    98.40    40.79    -67.7
a           Average                     Low Voltage   29,824,0a8       99.7    74,344       87.5    99.46    86.81    -18.7
A.8      All Consumers           All Voltage Levels   29,708,118      100.0   198,212      100.0    71.26    71.68        0.4
1/ Source: DNAEE, Boletim de tarifas de *eorgis eletrica, Septmber 21, 1989.
2/ Exchange rate as of Septembr 19, 1989 : US$1.00 a NCZ8.8160
8/ DNAEE's estimsto for 1989.
4/ DNAEE's estimte for December 1969.
5/ Average prices include revenue  resulting from tariffs, compulsory loans and taxes.
-~~~~.



MARGINAL COSTS AND PRICES BILLED AS OF SEPTEMBER 19, a989  1/ 2/                                                                  TABLE 7
31-Oct-89
CONSUMER CATEGORY                           NUMBER OF CONSUMERS 3/  ANNUAL COW4MPTION 4/  MARGINAL  AVERAGE  DEVIATION
- -- - ---        - -- ---------------  ---------------------       - -   - - ------------    COST    PRICE S/  FROMU C
CODE            TYPE                VOLTAGE LEVEL            No.            %          GUi         I       USS/MWH   US$/MUH       %
Al      Mainly Industrial                        230KV             39        0.0      21,381       10.8      44.76     26.tl      -40.8
A2      Mainly Industrial                138KV to 88KV            438        0.0      42,186       21.3      48.40     28.93      -40.2
AB      Mainly Industrial                 30KV to 89KV            904        0.0      10,371        6.2      50.90     34.03      -33.1
A4      Mainly Industrial               2.3KV to 26KV          76,701        0.3      48,728       24.8      63.99     68.60       -8.6
As     Industrial a Others                 Undergroung            997        0.0       1,222        0.6      69.07     71.96        4.2
A            Average            High A Medium Voltage          79,077        0.3    123,868        62.6      64.32     41.00      -24.t
e1         Residential              First 30KWH/month      4,044,366        18.6         833        0.4    106.92      19.71      -81.4
81         Residential             31 to 100KWH/month       7,668,64        26.8       6,061        3.1    104.86      22.11      -78.9
Ri         Residential            101 to 200KWH/month       8,686,484       29.2      14,772        7.6    102.20      28.58      -72.0
81         Residential            201 to 300KWHM/onth       2,891,118        9.9       8,943        4.6      98.75     42.03      -6?.4
e1         Residential                   )300KWH/month      1,971,324        8.8      12,914        6.6      92.25     76.28      -18.4
B1       All Residential                   Low Voltage    26,318,893        86.2      48,623       22.0      98.95     44.13      -56.4
B2            Rural                        Low Voltage      1,162,980        3.9       4,324        2.2    123.67      48.77      -60.6
83       Non-residential                   Low Voltage      3,122,186       10.6      19,686        9.9      98.30     93.77       -2.6
84       Public Lighting                   Low Voltage         14,027        0.0       6,911        3.5      96.40     28.64      -72.6
B            Average                       Low Voltage    29,624,086        99.7      74,344       37.6      99.46     66.84      -43.9
AtB       All Consumers            All Voltage Levels    29,703,113        100.0    299,212       100.0      71.25     48.66      -34.6
1/ Source: DNAEE, Boletim de taritas de energia eletrica, Septemb.r 21, 1989.
2/ Exchange rate as of September 19, 1989 : US81.00 = NCZS83.8160
3/ DNAEE's estimte for 1989.
4/ DNAEE's estimto for December 1989.
5/ Average prices include revenues resulting from tariffs, cosmplsory loans and taxes.
i



- 65 -
Electrlc Power Rstes In Brazil                                 ANEX l.t, Page 1I
25.      NV and MV consumers (tariff group A), who account for 632 of all
sales, pay an average PPP above LRMC. The A4 category in particular,
connnected in the range 2.3 to 25 KV, accounts for one quarter of sales and
pays an average PPP which is 402 above LRMC. When adjustments are made for
the billing effect, the average PPB falls bellow LRHC: to 762 and 922 of
LRMC for the A tariff as a whole and for A4 respectively.
26.      The *non-residential" LV consumer--mostly comnercial businesses
and very small industries (category B3), is charged an average PPP 502 over
LRHC. Even the average PPB is essentially at the level of LRMC, with rural
consumers and public lighting showing largest deviations. The structure of
the residential tariff is discussed in detail in paras. 29 to 36, but it
can be noted now that residential consumers as a whole are subsidized
heavily in economic terms: the average PPP is 692 of the LRMC, while the
average PPB is less than half LRMC.
Financial Equilibrium
27.      Financial equilibrium is established by setting rate levels based
upon the principle of service-at-cost, plus an adequate return on capital
invested. The service cost is defined as the sum of: (i) operation,
maintenance and administrative expenses, inclusive of purchases of
electricity; (ii) straight line depreciation of average gross revalued
fixed assets in operation; (iii) amortization of interest during
construction; (iv) decommissioning of assets; (v) taxes other than for
income (mainly property taxes); (vi) reversion quotas (an equivalent tax of
up to 42 of assets in operation) 9/ ; (vii) transfers to the National
Compensation Reserve for Remuneration (RENCOR), a tariff equalization
facility; and (viii) an adequate return on capital invested, currently set
between 10 and 122 of remunerable investment. 101
Regional Homogeneity and National Uniform Tariffs
28.      Regional homogeneity is assured by having uniform national tariff
levels and structures throughout the country, regardless of regional cost
differences. The social, regional and political benefits that this policy
have provided, have been achieved at the expense of a less efficient
allocation of resources. Efficiency costs inside power utilities occur
when the companies, in order to avoid the transfers, disguise investment
costs as operating expenses or overspend on their systems' operation,
9/ The payment of reversion quotas was introduced with the purpose of
creating a reserve fund with which to allow the federal government to
buy from foreign companies, the states and the municipalities the power
companies' assets at the end of the their concession periods. This
fund is administered by ELETROBRAS and its resources have been and
continue to be spent in the expansion of the power sector.
10/ Remunerable investment is equal to net revalued assets plus an
allowance for inventory and net working capital, less the difference
between the prior years' actual and allowable return, less
contributions and grants.



- 66 -
Electrlc Power Raton In Brasil                                 AEX 1.8, Pae. 14
maintenance and administration costs, to reduce operating income.
Efficiency costs across the national economy occur when potential customers
take decisions based on wrong economic signals, for example, when a
decision regarding the location of an industrial plant is made based on
tariffs that are lower than the real economic costs. However, this latter
cost Is relatively low given the small differences that exist between
marginal costs in Brazil's different regions. The average marginal cost
for the whole Brazilian system is 142 smaller than the average marginal
cost in the South region, 62 smaller than the average marginal cost in the
South-East/Center-West regions, and 212 larger than the average marginal
cost in the North/North-East regions (see Table 8 for a detailed comparison
of marginal costs among Brazilian regions).
Social Equity
29.      The Brazilian power sector has adopted a tariff structure for all
residential consumers which has a minimum consumption level (MCL) of 30
kilowatts-hour per household per month (KWH/hh-m); and a complementary
system of increasing block tariffs. In addition, specific discounts are
applied to rural consumers and water supply and sewerage companies. This
current social policy is based on the following assumptionss (i) any family
requires a minimum amount of electricity consumption; (ii) although
relatively small, the amount of money spent on electricity by poor families
is important in their overall budget; (iii) family income is positively
correlated with household electricity consumption; (iv) rural consumers are
in general poorer than urban consumers; and (v) some economic activities,
such as water supply, have a high social impact.
30.      In September 1989, the minimum residential bill (MRB) resulting
from the MCL of 30 KWH/hh-m was about NCZ$1.37/hh-m or, equivalent to 0.62
of one minimum salary (NCZ$249.48)--see Table 9. However, there is no
explicit guideline relating the MRB to the minimum salary or to any other
specific parameter.
31.      MCLs are usually included in a rate schedule with the main purpose
of allowing utilities a full or partial recovery of customer-related fixed
costs. A MCL is equivalent to a fixed rate with the right to consume the
minimum level. free of charge. However, this result is not being achieved
in Brazil, as testified by the gap between the marginal cost associated
with supplying the first 100 KWH to residential consumers (US$137/MWH) and
its corresponding current tariff (USS20/MWH)--a gap that should be even
bigger for the MCL of 30 KWH/month (see Table 10).
32.      Furthermore, there is no explicit explanation of how this MCL is
determined. Studies by DNAEE 11/ suggest that the minimum electricity
consumption of a typical Brazilian family is between 93 and 117 KWH/month,
a range which tesults from adding consumption related to
11/ Bitu, R.S. (1986), Tarifa residencial de caracter social, Banco
Intpramerieannn d  DfqArrnjl.,. Prornma 1P Analibis d   os-- v Diseno
de Tarifa., Puebla, Mexico.



REGIONAL MARGINAL COSTS (USI/MVd)  I/ 2/                                                         TABLE 8
USl as of September 19, 1989                                                                   31-Oct-89
CONSUMER CATEGORY                              R   E  G   1   0   N
BRAZIL
CODE       VOLTAGE LEVEL         SOUTH     SOUTHEAST  CENTER-VEST    NORTH      NORTHEAST
Ao   Production 3/                 41.47        41.47       41.47       28.12       28.12        38.34
Al   280 KV                        46.66        46.06       48.06       86.04       38.04        44.76
A2   188 KV to 8S KV               62.88        52.03       62.03        0.00         0.00       48.40
A3   69 KV to 20 KV                64.21        64.82       54.82       89.16        39.16       50.90
A4   18.8 KV to 2.8 KV             68.82        64.69       04.s9       62.48       82.48        63.99
A    Avg. High A Med. Voltage      84.03        67.86       57.85       44.91        44.91       54.32
e1   Residential                  107.40       110.11      110.11       84.47        84.47       98.9t
B2   Rural                         188.77      187.18      187.18      119.98       139.98      123.67
83   Non-residential                S9.82      100.58      100.5U       96.89        95.89       98.30
B4   Public Lighting               96.50        96.60       96.50       84.85        84.36       96.40
B    Average Low Voltage           106.61      107.76      107.78       89.29        89.29       99.46
A d  Average Power Sector           r.6e        75.68       76.68       59.02        69.02       71.26
1/ Source: DNAEE
2/ Exchange rate as of September 19, 1989 : US81.00 * NCZ*8.3160
2/ The marginal production cost Includes both the gneration end the Interconnection cost.



- 68 -
AM   1.8, P   1
EVOLUTION OF RESIDENTIAL POWER TARIFFS AFFORDABILITY                 TABLE 9
81-Oct-SO
MINIMUM      MINIMUM    CONSUWTION
YEAR      SALARY         BILL        BILL FOR      MRS/MS      100/MS
(MS)         (MRS)    100 K4H (9100)     %            %
CZS/.       CZ8/hh-m     CZ8/hh-b
1974          0.8652       0.0098       0.0867          2.7          10.9
1975          0.4eos       0.0186       0.0550          2.9          11.4
1976          0.e09e       0.0166       0.0720          2.7          10.4
1977          0.s9s6       0.0240       0.0952          2.5           9.6
1970          1.4068       0.0812       0.1278          2.2           9.0
1979          2.1426       0.0389       0.1808           1.6          6.4
1980          4.0172       0.0546       0.8019           1.4          7.5
190l          8.1500       0.0867       0.5829          1.1           7.2
1902         16.2080       0.1479       1.0861          0.9           6.4
19:8         80.6800       0.8450       2.8896          1.1           7.6
1904         95.80         1.0329       7.0621          1.1           7.4
1965        322.0800       2.071a      20.2896          0.9           6.8
1066        770.0000       5.6769      48.6086          0.7           5.7
1997      1,966.0900      10.7526     140.9875          0.6           7.4
1963     16,519.09o0     104.5658      6o.e8098         0.7           6.2
JU4/89    120,000.0000    0s5.6000   4,488.6640          0.4           8.7
JUL/es   149,00.0000      728.6000   6,840.6240          0.6           4.2
AUG/09   192,600.0000     994.2000   8,711.4460          0.5           4.5
SEP/89   249,480.0000   1,872.2000  12,022.9520          0.6           4.6
----   -  --- --- --- --- ---   -  --- ----    -  --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --    --



RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS, COKW TION, COSTS AND TARIFFS                                                                    TABL  10
81-Oct-B9
NUiMBER OF   AVERAGE     MRGINAL TARIFF       AVERAGE TARIFF       MARGINAL COST
COMSUMPTION BLOCKS    CONSUMERS  CONSUMPTION          (MT)                (AT)                 (MC)          NT/MC    AT/KC
KGH/hl-               1/         1/    ------------ -   ----------------                                  X        X
Thousands   KWi/f.%-    US8/MIH       K      US$/IM       X      US$/i#U       x
0 -  80             4,044       17.16       11.95     10.8       20.26    44.7      16.986   140.6       8.7    34.8
81 - 100             7,667       s6.s8       81.07     28.1       22.74    60.1      136.96    140.8    22.7    16.6
101 - 200            8s6s6       141.78      a8.28      84.6      29.87     84.7      100.84    103.6    37.9    29.2
201 - 0oo             2,951      252.54       92.88     88.4       48.20    95.2      100.84    108.6    91.8    42.8
More than 8oo           1,971      546.91      110.74    100.0      77.48   370.7        81.78     83.9   186.4    94.7
TOTAL              26,319      148.26          NA       NA       46.87   100.0       97.43    100.0       NA     46.8
-----  -- - -                                                               -- - --  ----------
1/ DNAEE's estimate for December 1989.
i'



- 70 -
ElectrIc Powr Rote. In Brsall                                AhM  1.J, Pat* le
lighting (14Kl H)l refrigeration (32 to 42KWH); ironing (4KWH); radio and
television (IN WH); and fans, water heaters and stoves (25 to 39KWH). This
range contains the upper limit of the second residential block (31 to 100
KWH/hh-m), which suggests that 'on social grounds) there is no
justification for the existence of two tariff blocks below the consumption
level of 100 KWHIhh-m. 12/
33.      More generally, a social electricity policy based on a subsidized
lifeline rate makes good sense in Brazil. Subsidization of a monthly
consumption level of 100 KWH/hh (equal to the upper limit of the present
second residential consumption block) provides relief to the poor families'
budget without causing major problems to the finances of the power sector-
-total residential consumption below 100 KWH/month is only about 12Z of
total electricity consumption (about S32 of all residential consumption,.
In addition, the quality and availability of electricity substitutes for
cooking also allows this consumption level of 190 gWH/hh to be inside the
range identified as the minimum required for a typical family. But
consumptions larger than 100 KWH/hh-m should have rates much higher, and
close to marginal costs.
34.      However, implementation of this policy should have an appropriate
target and avoid unreasonable high levels of subsidization. The
electricity bill for a monthly consumption of 100 KWH/hh has been growing
less than the minimum salary during the last fifteen years (see Table 9).
The continuous application of this policy for so many years has produced a
very large subsidy--whichever standard is used to measure it.
35.      Application of alternative subsidization schemes do not appear
worth trying in Brazil because their complexity and adminib.rative cost
probably outweigh their potential benefits. For instance, the *social
tariffa introduced in 1985 for billing assumed that poor families were
responsible for all expected problems (waste and inefficient use of
electricity, and an increase in 'technic 1' and financial losses, for
example) and very few of the expected benefits. 13/
36.      Finally, as a complement to the above discussed social pricing
policy, the Brazilian power sector allows new customers to be hooked-up to
existing facilities, without paying any connection fee. Only when the
12/ Nevertheless, it is important to note tha' these figures are average
estimates, strongly influenced by the larger consumption of households
from the richer and most populated South and South-East regions. If
further studies show that. for example, there is a significant
difference between the minimum consumption of.electricity required by a
typical family in the South/South-East and the North/North-East
regions, then perhaps two or even three MCLs should be defined for each
of the Brazilian regions.
13/ This so-called 'social tariff' consists of a flat rate equivalent to a
monthly consumption of 50 KWH per l,ousehold, that is applied to
families with consumption levels assumed to be so low that render
metering irrelevant.



- 71 -
Electric Power Ratee In Brazil                                AtNEX 1.8, Page 19
connection requires the expansion of the distribution network, is cost-
related charge made. This policy facilitates the connection of poor
families to the power system.
Explicit Subsidies
37.      Subsidies to public transportation, water and sewerage companies,
rural consumers, public lighting, selected industrial activities, and other
consumers have been reduced or abolished during the last years. The policy
of giving significant and explicit subsidies to export-oriented producers
and industries willing to substitute electricity for other fuels (known as
'eletrotermial tariff) lasted from 1981 to 1986. 14/
38.      However, the legacy of important subsidies awarded in the past
still continue and will persist for many years to come.  Selected
electricity intensive and export-oriented industries located in the
Amazonas region--such as aluminum and ferro-alloy--were given long-term
contracts that will last for many years more. An aluminum plant in the
Amazonan region, for instance, has a special contract of 20 years duration
with a 152 discount on the basic applicable tariff, a minimum rate of
US$10.5 mills/KWH, and a maximum tariff equal to 202 the international
price of aluminum. 151 It is estimated that the special contracts
negotiated with two aluminum plants and one ferro-alloy plant alone will
have a subsidy cost to the power sector of more than one billion dollars. 161
39..     Currently, only rural consumers and water supply and sewerage
companies are given explicit subsidies. Rural consumers receive a 1O0
subsidy (452 when they are organized as cooperatives), and water supply anu
sewerage companies a 152 subsidy. The financial impact of this policy is
minimal so far, given the small participation of these consumers ir. the
market. However, execution of large programs in irrigation could generate
a new and severe financial problem for the power sector, because of the
high infrastructure costs and the large amount9 of water required.
14/ A clear intensification in the use of electricity during the periou
1974-1988 was influenced by the relative stability observed in the
industrial rates during these years, but what was really important .
the incorporation of new production technologies more electricity
intensive and a trend to substitute oil derivatives for electricity.
This policy was even promoted by the introduction of subsidized tariffs
under the weletrotermia' program. The energetic density of the
industrial output multiplied itself by wice from 1974 to 1984,
estabiliz_ng afterwards.
15/ ELETROBRAS (1988b), Proieto III - Eletrointensivos: 'Diagnostico e
Mecanismos", Setembro, pp.32-33.
16/ Ibidem, p.31.



BRAZIL
ELETRICZTY TRANSMISSION4 AN C01EVATION PROJET
POWE MAKEr FDRtE4AT
_____________________
ACTUAL                                    FCAST                                AUJL  WVN (X)
1980    1984    1988      1989    1900   1991    1992    1993    1994    199S       1980-8  1989-93 1989-95
A. By Category (GWh)
___________________
Rsidential               957.2  1229.5  1485.0    158.0  1881.0  1664.0  1738.0  1839.0  1986.0  2070.0          5.6    4.6 5    1
Industridl               1018.6  1255.0  1411.0    1267.0  1421.0  lr11.0  1648.0  1767.0  1871.0  1905.0       4.2     8.7    7.8
C4amercial               406.7   4S9.2   610.0      614.0   626.0   650.0   684.0  724.0   769.0   812.0        5.2      4.2     4.8
Other*                   267.9   883.S   447.0      806.0   838.0   554.0   617.0  666.0   717.0   770.0        6.6     7.1     7.2
Own Consumption            4.3    5.8      9.0       10.0    10.0    10.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0           9.7     2.4      1.6
Total                    2684.7  3362.5  3962.0    3932.0  4176.0  4389.0  4695.0  S007.0  8824.0  6646.0       5.1      6.2     6.2
Logo"                    356.2   848.2   880.2    1032.0   927.0   932.0   954.0  971.0   964.0  198.0
Block *upply                             200.7      217.0   225.0   233.0   240.0  247.0  255.0  261.0                  8.3    3.1
Total En-rgy Supply       3010.9  8910.7  5042.9    5181.0  5328.0    5.0  589.0  6225.0  6563.0  6902.0          6.7     4.7     4.9
8. Demnd (sW)                  0.6    0.7      0.9       0.9     0.9      1.0    1.0    1.1      1.1    1.2         5.0     5.3     6.5
____________
C. System Faetor (S)          59.3   64.7    67.1        67.7    66.9   66.8    68.S   66.2   65.8   65.3
0. Lose Indcr (1) 1/          11.8    14.0    17.5       19.9    17.4   16.8    16.2   15.6    16.0   14.4
E. No.Custme_r,(1000)        860.2   701.8   888.9      679.1   917.4   95S.1   990.3  1027.9  1066.0  1104.4       5.0    4.0      a.9
A. By Category (CG)
___________________
Realdent;l               1837.4  2475.8  3497.0   3878.0  3873.0  4094.0  4823.0  4853.0  4786.0  5025.0        8.4     8.5      5.3
Industrial              12480.7 14483.3 18859.0   19815.0 20285.0 2T706.0 28298.0 24837.0 26622.0 28044.0       5.1      . 5    6.4
Comercial                092.3  1161.6  1509.0    1562.0  1638.0  1716.0  1796.0  1878.0  1961.0  2048.0        6.8     4.7    4.6
Others                   968.6  1371.9  2164.0    2282.0  2422.0  2738.0  2914.0  8076.0  8277.0  3478.0       10.3     8.3    7.6
Oan Cenaumption           12.7   24.8    86.0        59.0    74.0   89.0   ee.o  108.0   108.0  102.0          20.9    16.3    9.6
Total                  S1200.7 19516.6 25827.0   26846.0 28292.0 30398.0 32427.0 84452.0 36654.0 s86s2.0         8.0     6.4     6.8
Loam"                    1409.2  1920.8  2367.1    2680.0  2851.0  3sca.o  8316.0  8452.0  8673.0  8880.0
Block supply             258.4   188.0   180.0      282.0  207.0   206.0   191.0   176.0  189.0  208.0         -4.4   -8.4      0.1
Total Energy Supply       17876.S 21682.4 28374.1   29725.0 81830.0 38579.0 38984.0 3S806.0 40516.0 42775.0       5.9    e.4      6.8
B. Demand (24)                 2.9    3.8      4.4        4.5    4.7    8.0       5.4    5.7    6.0    6.4          S.4 q           8.2
_____________
C. System Factor (1)          70.8   75.9    74.0        76.1   76.5   76.2   78.0   76.8   76.6   76.3
0. Lae Index ) 1/              7.9     8.9     8.8        9.0     9.0    9.0    9.2    9.1    9.1        9.1
E. Nr.Customers(1000)       1399.0  1903.4  2415.4    2589.1  2651.3  2768.6  2875.8  087.1  8090.0  8208.0         7.2     4.1     4.0



IRAZIL
BE.TRIC1TY TANISSION AND CONSERVATION PROsJT
POWER MKUFORTr
-------------------
COELBA
ACTAL                                       FOAST                                 AIAL  ROWfTM (6)
1980    1984    1986       1989    1990    1991    1992    19       1994    1998       1980-88  19e9-93 1989-98
_ - -   - -   _ - -   - - -   - --   _ - -   _   - - -   - -   - - - -  - - --   -- -- ---   -- -- ---
A. By Ct"eory (Ah)
R_eidentlul               790.9  1168.6  1S80.0      1718.0  1851.0  1992.0  2186.0  2280.0  2426.0  2672.0         8.6     7.4      7.0
Industriml               1388.8  1741.1  2048.0      2045.0  2154.0  2370.0  2814.0  2688.0  2806.0  290.0          5.0     6.8     6.5
Coierelal                 '85.2   688.1   848.0       916.0   998.0  1070.0  1149.0  1228.0  1308.0  1389.0         7.1     7.S      7.1
Others                    4A1.6   765.7  1060.0      1123.0  1276.0  1428.0  1596.0  1743.0  im88.o  2068.0        12.1    11.6    10.4
Own Consumption             5.6    16.2    20.0        21.0    23.0    25.0    27.0    29.0    82.0    84.0        17.2     8.4     0.4
Total                    8S0.6  4896.7  5498.0    S820.0  6299.0  6088.0  7422.0  7948.0  P4SO.0  9020.0            7.8     8.1     7.6
Lose"                     424.1   482.9   644.0       760.0   804.0  8659.0   904.0   944.0   981.0  1020.0
Block Supply               40.9     2.0     0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total bergy Supply         8855.6  4861.6  6142.0      6580.0  7108.0  7744.0  8326.0  8889.0  9441.0 10040.0         7.1     7.8     7.8
B. Demand (C)                   0.7     0.9     1.1        1.1      1.2     1.8     1.4     1.5      1.6     1.7        6.1     6.9     6.8
C. Systea Feator (S)           89.7    60.7    64.4       68.5    68.6    68.7    67.9    67.6    67.4    67.4                                                          1
D. Lowe Index (S) I/           11.9     9.9    10.8        11.6    11.8    11.1    10.9    10.6    10.4    10.2                                                         w
E. No.Cuate.r(1000)           702.1  1118.4  188.0       162S.5  1716.4  1812.8  1911.8  2014.4  2120.1  2220.9        10.8     5.3     8.4
CESP
A. By Category (Ca)
Bulk Supply
ELETRSPDALO           24897.0 30o9S S 29475.0    30800.0 27699.0 27612.0 26444.0 80686.0 81278.0 38800.0          2.1    -0.1      1.2
CPFL                   4220.0  9884.0 12408.0      8500.0  8282.0  8892.0  8818.0  9482.0  9887.0  9700.0        14.4     2.7      2.2
ELETROSL               2221.0   26S.0   594.0       596.0   596.0   596.0   896.0   596.0   596.0   596.0       -18.2     0.0      0.0
Obthr.                 1687.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Totl                    8802-.0 41028.0 42472.0    89696.0  86847.0 36600.0 87858.0 40784.0 41426.0 48296.0         8.2     0.8      1.4
LOwewe                   2882.9  281.8  8268.0       2899.0  2647.   2664.0  2688.1  2689.4  2698.7  2724.4
CESP' Rtal' Supply       4006.8   M6.6  6988.0       7102.0  7940.1  8498.6  8976.8  9479.4  9998.7 10540.5         7.1     7.8     6.a
Total BEnry Supply        89861.2 49406.1 52668.0    49897.0 4714.6 47762.6 49519.9 s2902.6 54118.4 86560.9           8.7     1.6     2 1
8. Oamand (oW)                  7.0     9.8    10.1        9.2     8.6      8.7     8.9     9.5    10.1    10.7         4.7     0.8     2.8
C. Syatee Factor (             84.2    60.6    59.5       61.9    62.6    62.7    68.8    68.6    <1.2    60.8                                                >
- - - - -- -- - -- - - - - ---
D. Lose Index (5) 1/            8.9     8.7     6.2        5.8     8.6      8.6     5.4     5.1     8.0      4.8
E. NW.CUV -r(1000)            469.8   680.1   76C.7      829.8   863.0   902.8   944.4   986.1  1024.7  1068.8          6.8     4.6     4.8
__-_ ----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



.
82AZZL
Em.TRICrTY TRANSISSION ANO D06CVATION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------
P    KMR KET RK RICAST
CPFL
ACTUAL                                    FQRBAST                               ANNUAL awh ()
1900    1984    1986      1909    199    1991    1992    1998    1994    19S        1980-68  1989-9W  1989-98
- - O -   - - -   - -   - - -     -   - - -   - - -   - -   _ -- - ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---
A. y Category (GAh)
Reidential              1409.0  2066.1  2824.0    8017.0  3210.0  8410.0  3820.0  s844.0  4080.0  48s2.0         8.8     6.2    6.2
Indwttrial              8504.2  4800.4  51Sh 0     584.0  5640.0  5941.0  62s8.0  6484.0  675s.0  7051.0       4.9     4.9     4.7
Cc.rcial                 742.4  1006.5  1264.0    1328.0  1897.0  1472.0  1580.0  1633.0  1719.0  1814.0         6.9    8.4    5.4
oters                   1287.6  1577.8  2010.0    2124.0  2289.0  2850.0  2464.0  28M5.0  2692.0  2818.0         6.2    4.     4.8
Oon Cmnsumption           18.1   26.1   28.0         29.0   80.0   81.0   31.0    82.0   32.0   83.0            S.6     2.5    2.2
TOt"l                   891.8  9206.9 11282.0   11838.0 12516.0 18204.0 18898.0 14S68.0 18276.0 16048.0         6.2     5.3    5.2
Las                      666.8   599.8   824.0      844.0   848.0   866.0  896.0   928.0   940.0  1007.0
slock supply             808.6   850.4   467.8       16.0    17.0   17.0    17.0   18.0   18.0    18.0          6.5    3.0      2.0
Totl Energy aupply        7961.2 10257.1 12573.8   12608.0 18876.0 14067.0 14811.0 15509.0 16262.0 17078.0        5.9     5.1     5.1
S. D_and (aS)                  1.5    1.9    2.8         2.a    2.4      2.5    2.7      2.8     2.9     3.0        5.7    4.9    4.8
C. System Factor M            61.1   62.6   62.0       682.     62.4   64.3   63.2   62.8    64.0    65.0
D. Loe Index (1) 1/           8.4      6.8    6.6        6.8     6.3    6.1    6.0       6.0     6.0     5.9
E. No.Cuetoamr(1000)         909.0  1174.0  1880.1    1437.0  1499.8  1556.8  1620.0  1682.1  1746.8  1815.6        5.4     4.0    4.0
CopoL.
A. By Catewory (Ah)
Rcidmntiml              1020.9  1487.0  2065.0    2188.0  2838.0  2490.0  2649.0  2s9Wo   2970.0  8139.o        9.2     6.4     6.2
Indmwbrlsl              2106.0  2766.7  8835.0    3885.0  8987.0  4S53.0  5286.0  S666.0  8961.0  6278.0        7.8    10.2    8.6
C,orcial                 731.1  978.1  1170.0    1199.0  1260.0  1831.0  1405.0  169,0  1534.0  1602.0          6.1     S.2    4.9
Oth0r.                   78S.2  1127.9  1672.0    174S.0  1868.0  1940.0  2041.0  2186.0  2229.0  2828.0       10.8    8.2    4.9
Own Cmonuaptien           1S.4    6.7   32.0         81.0   49.0   54.0   61.0   84.0   101.0   122.0           7.2    28.8   25.7
Total                   4818.6  6880.4  8774.0    s999.0  9468.0 10468.0 11442.0 12164.0 12795.0 18406.0        8.4     7.8    6.9
Laos"                    490.9   562.6   787.9      748.0   787.0   869.0  960.0  1009.0  1062.0  1117.0
Block aupply             810.0  1296.4   O15.0      224.0  240.0   254.0   269.0   285.0   800.0   316.0       -4.5    6.2    8.9
Total Energy  pply        5414.5  0227.6  9726.9    99e.0 10495.0 11591.0 12661.0 13458.0 14157.0 14099.0         7.6    7.8      6.9
B. Oeend (CM)                  1.0     1.5    1.7        1.8     1.9    2.1      2.2    2.3      2.8     2.6        6.5     8.9    6.1
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
C. Sysftm Futtor (S)          59.6   62.7   64.9        68.2   64.1   63.9   65.0   65.4    66.8    66.1
0. Lose Index r     1/         9.1     6.6    7.6        7.5     7.6    7.8    7.5    7.5        7.8     7.5
i-6
E. tdm.Cueaura(100)          798.4  1053.1  1809.7    o867.9  1488.7  1500.8  1568.5  1680.2  1692.2  1888.6        8.4     4.8    8.0



EB.IRTICrY TR1MISSION AND C6WERVATIDN PROJFI
ELErRSU
ACTiAL                                   F0r6AST                                M86AL a8TH (
l980    1964    1988      1989    1990    19l9    1992    1998    1994   1998     1980-88 1989-9  1989-95
A. By Comany (Wh)
COPEL                   2417.0  151.0  618.0       900.0  937.0  1270.0  1796.0    0.0  ' 0.0    0.0        -15.7
cB                      30480.0  4307.0  4674.0    4600.0  4611.0  4634.0  4949.0  523s.0  5291.0  8600.0     5.5    3.8      3.8
CEEE                    2011.0  3s82.0  8293.0    8100.0  8267.0  882s.0  3478.0  4310.0  4652.0  8200.0      6.4    8.6      9.0
ESL                        0.0   805.0  1041.0    1100.0  1034.0  1218.0  1419.0  1677.0  1805.0  2300.0              9.4   13.1
SoWIST                     0.0  1398.0  1764.0    8S90.0  2610.0  8048.0  3282.0  6693.0  6071.0  6080.0              14.5    7.6
Own Consumption          220.0  240.0  250.0       810.0  6'20.0  330.0  340.0  350.0  380.0  370.0           1.6    3.1    3.0
Losses                   680.0  740.0  770.0       980.0 eeo.0  940.0  1030.0  1260.0  1290.0  1660.0         4.3    7.1    8.2
Total                   8246.0 11028.0 12410.0   14860.0 13859.0 14789.0 16244.0 19418.0 19469.0 20880.0      5.2     6.9    5.8                              1
-4.
a. by Com-nY (S)
COPE.                     29.d    1.4    5.0         6.1    6.9    8.6    11.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
cELESC                    37.0   89.1   87.7        81.0   88.3   31.4   80.s   27.0   27.2   26.8
CEmE                      2*.4   30.7   26.5        20.9   24.1   22.8   21.4   22.2   28.9   24.9
EMRA.                      0.0    7.3    8.4         7.4    7.6    8.2      8.7    8.1    9.8   11.0
SOUTHEAST                  0.0   12.7   14.2        26.2   19.2   20.6   19.9   34.8   81.2   29.0
Own Consumton              2.7    2.2    2.0         2.1    2.4    2.2    2.1       1.8    1.8    1.8
Lo""                       6.7    6.7    6.2         6.4    6.5    6.4    6.8    6.4    6.6    6.5
TOtal                    100.0   100.0  100.0      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
C. Demad (()                  1.6    2.8    2.4         2.1    2.1    2.b    2.8    2.8    2.6    2.8             5.2    2.5    4.9
0. Byed_ hcor (6)            88.8   54.7   89.0         00.8   73.7   67.4   66.2   96.4   88.5   65. 1
E. L_ lnd.s CM) 1/           6.7    6.7    6.2         6.4    0.5    6.4    6.8    6.4    6.6    6.5
r



UMAZIL
EmCrY TRANMISSION AND CNS8RVATrN PROJET
PeE    iT illS
ACAL                                      FiWST MRML  8O aVH  (1)
1980    1984    1988       1939    1990    191    1992    1993    1994    1996       1980-se 19e9-a 1989-5
A.   CategoY (oh)
Resldmetiol              8S8.2  4188.6  4713.0    4896.0  5097.0  5819.0  5554.0  5806.0  6078.0  6865.0          8.7     4.4     4.5
Industrial               478.8  7107.4  6425.0      8u4.0  8807.0  9160.0  9f16.0  9486.0 10808.0 10775.0         7.1     8.7     8.9
Cmercial                 2682.0  8118.1  8382.0     849.0  8s85.0  8818.0  8997.0  4188.0  4878.0  4652.0         8.1     4.6     4.6
Others                   1577.0  2040.2  2176.0    8222.0  2614.0  2419.0  2478.0  2588.0  2627.0  2728.0         4.1     8.8     3.4
Ow Consumtico             82.7    87.5    45.0         .     7.0    79.0    79.0   79.0    79.0   79.0           4.1     0.0     0.0
Total                   1270.2 16488.8 18741.0    19289.0 19947.0 20795.0 21624.0 22492.0 2847.0 24824.0          5.0     4.0     4.1
Lm.                      1341.2  1S6S.0  2128.2    21*.0  2618.0  2812.0  2404.0  2501.0  2609.0  2727.0
Slock awply                72.2    12.0    10.8       11.0    11.0    12.0   13.0   13.0    14.0    14.0        -21.6     4.8     4.1
Toal B.rgy Supply         14068.6 18018.8 20879.8    2189.0 22176.0 28119.0 2041.0 21006.0 26090.0 27265.0          5.0     4.0     4.1
S.  d   (CM)                   2.4     2.9      8.4       8.8      8.5    8.6      8.7     8.9     4.1     4.8        4.5     4.2     4.5
C. lipste Factor (            67.5    71.2    70.4        78.6    72.8   73.5   73.5   78.1   73.1   72.1
D. Los  Index (  1/            9.8     8.7    10.2        10.0    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    10.0   10.0
E. N  .Custmr.(1000)         1649.6  2004.4  2160.8     2802.1  2857.0  2418.8  2471.1  2S60.8  2681.4  2683.6        8.4     2.4     2.8
EETR8PAtO
A. by Catesory (01h)
Reai tential             6581.0  7845.0  9780.0    10166.0 10578.0 11049.0 11812.0 12274.0 130L.0 18869.0         5.1     4.8     5.3
Indus%. 1aI             19186.0 22767.0 27`15.0    25845.0 26207.0 27187.0 28110.0 29218.0 8042.0 51781.0         8.7     8.6     8.8
Commrclal                8642.0  4295.0  52S2.0    582.0  5898.0  5909.0  6079.0  689S.0  6754.0  7187.0          5.0     4.4     4.8
others                   2672.0  8817.0  8775.0    3973.0  410.0  4246.0  4408.0  4595.0  4810.0  5867.0          4.4     8.7     4.0
Dun Conaptin             465.0   819.0   541.0      49e.0   504.0   809.0   518.0   526.0   p3.0  540.0          1.9     1.4     1.4
Tote                    82446.0 88542.0 45048.0    41874.0 4S968.0 48720.0 50724.0 63009.0 58554.0 18814.0        4.2     4.0     4.3
Lo41,.                   2750.0  8120.0  8416.4    8678.0  8011.0  8949.0  4114.0  4298.0  4504.0  4780.0
Toetl Bergy Supply        85196.0 41662.0 48469.4   49080.0 30799.0 52669.0 54888.0 s7807.0 60068.0 68044.O         4.1     4.0     4.8
8. Damd (06)                   6.0     7.1     7.7        8.4     8.5      8.8    9.1      9.8     9.9    10.4       8.2      3.5     8.6
C. Syte. Factor (1)          67.0    67.0    71.6       66.7    68.4    68.8    58.8   67.9    69.8    69.2
D. Lae Ind.. (1) 1/            7.8     7.5     7.1        7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5                                           Uit3
E. We.Cuotours(1000)        3224.0  8797.0  4182.0    4841.0  4800.0  4659.0  4620.0  4964.0  5147.0  5812.0         8.8      8.5     8.4



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.1
BRAZIL                                    Table 1
ELECTRICITY TRANSUISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
------------------------------______-------------
1990-1993 TRANSUISSION/SUBSTATION EXPANSION PROGRAM
CEMIG
TRANSMISSION        SUBSTATIONS
LINES LENGTH          CAPACITY          OBSERVATIONS
KM.                 UVA.
500 kV.                              182                800       a/ About SOX Is new
capacity.
846 kV                               426                460
280 kV                                98                296
188 kV                              1949               196
69 kV                               662                891
TOTAL                       8201               8901  a/
CERJ
tO0 kV.                                0                  0       b/ About 162 MVA
to be inetalled
846 kV                                 0.                 0          in new substa-
tions.
280 kV                                 0                  0
188 kV                               164                18S
69 kV                               296                246
TOTAL                        482                881  b/
Revised Oct.6,1989



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.1
BRAZIL                                  Table 2
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
1990-1993 TRANSMISSION/SUBSTATION EXPANSION PPOCRAU
CESP
TRANSMISSION         SUBSTATIONS
LINES LENGTH           CAPACITY          OBSERVATIONS
KM.                  MVA.
440 kV                                816 a/             2678a*         a/ Includes
Installation of
280 kV                                120                 220          equipmnt related
to Tsquaracu and
1S8 kV                                729                 284          Porto Primavera
hydro plants.
88 kV                                  0                   8           b/ Of which about
1270 MVA is new
69 kV                                  6                   18          capacity.
c/ Additionally about
166 WVAr of capacitor
TOTAL                        1169                ao98 b/,c/    banks will be insta-
lled.
COELBA
600 kV.                                 0                   0
B45 kV                                  0 .                 0
280 kV                                197                 600
18 kV                                732                 844
69 kV                               1778                1194
TOTAL                        2702                20S8
Revised Oct.6,1989



- 79 -
BRAZIL                                 ANNEX 3.1
__----                              Table 3
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------
1990-1993 TRANSMISSION/SUBSTATION EXPANSION PROGRAM
COPEL
TRANSMISSION        SUBSTATIONS
LINES LENGTH          CAPACITY         OBSERVATIONS
KM.                 WVA.
600 kV.                               0                  0          a/Include. cons-
truction of now
846 kV                                0                  0          substations and
*x_pl.on of *-io-
280 kV                              446               1600          tina on.
i86 kV                              477               1060
Go9kV                               39                808
TOTAL                        961               816S a/
CPFL
600 kV.                               0                  0          b/Include. about
71 WVA at 84.6 kV
846 kV                                0                  0          lovel.
c/Include. construc-
280 kV                                0                  0          tion of now substa-
tion and expenslon
18 kV                              800               1288          ot existing ones.
69 kV                              119                 161 b/
TOTAL                        719               1860 e/
Revld Oct.B,1989



- 80 -
ANNEX 3.1
BRAZIL                                    Table 4
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
1990-1993 TRANSMISSION/SU8STATION EXPANSION PROGRAM
---------------------------------------------------
ELETROSUL
TRANSUISSION        SUBSTATIONS
LINES LENGTH          CAPACITY         0BSERVATIONS
KM.                 UVA.
600 kV.                             347                900          Additionaly ELETROSUL
plans to install about
846 kV                                0                  0          220 MVAr capacity of
reactc- banks.
280 kV                             1101                1282
188 kV                                0                  0
89 kV                                0                  0
TOTAL                       1468               2162
R c
Revised Oct.8,1989



- 81 -
ANNEX 3.1
Table 5
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------
1990-1993 TRANSMISSION!SUBSTATION EXPANSION PROGRAM
ELETROPAULO
iRANSMISSION        SUBSTATIONS
LINES LENOTH           CAPACITY         OBSERVATIONS
Klr.                 MVA.
500 kV.                                 0                  0          a/Of which about
B0 km. is under-
846 kV                                 77 a/             882 d/        ground lines.
b/Of which about
280 kV                                  1                  0           282 km. Is line
reconstruction.
138 kV                               572 b/,c/           8981 e/      c/Of which about
70 km. is under-
69 kV                                  0                   9          ground lines.
------              ------         d/Power substations.
*/Distribution sub-
TOTAL                         850                7813          stations.
LIGHT
600 kV.                                0.                  0           f/Of which about
84 km. Is under-
346 kV                                  0                   0          ground lines.
g/Additionally LIGHT
230 kV                                  0                  0           plans to install about
800 MVAr capacity of
188 kV                                109 f/            2099 S/       capacitor banks.
69 kV                                  0                   0
TOTAL                         109                2099
Revised Oct. ,1989



- 82 -
ANNEX 8.2
BRAZIL
*AUL                                              Tablo 1
ELECTRICI T RANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
INVESTMENT POCRAM  (USS million)
CEMIG
X Of
10o     1991      1992      1993   Total 1989-98   Investwant
Generation                     418.1    604.6    600.6    518.5          2117.0            52.0
Transmloison                   120.1     1W0.0    200.0    250.0          728.1            17.9
Diatribution                   280.4    286.6    249.4    248.0           974.4            28.9
*Gneral Investmnte              50.7      57.6      66.9      74.2        249.4             6.1
Total Be" Cost                 685.8    1081.0   1118.9   10865.7        4088.9           100.0
Price Contingenloe              20.9      77.6    142.9    198.9          440.2
TOTAL                   656.2   1108.6   1259.6   1264.6          4E09.1
CERJ
Ceneration                       0.3       0.1       0.6       0.6          1.0             0.9
Transmission                    11.1       4.8       2.6       2.9         20.9            11.8
Distribution                    41.7      40.6      U8.0      84.4        149.9            60.6
General Investments              8.6       2.4       8.1       4.0         18.1             7.1
Total Base Coat                 56.7      47.6      89.8      41.9        186.5           100.0
Price Contingencles              1.4       8.6       6.0       7.7         17.7
TOTAL                    68.1      51.2      44.8      49.6        208.2



- 83 -
ANNEX 8.2
_AZIL                                              l2
ELECTRtICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
DNVISETM   PROGRAM (USS *IIIi on)
CESP
X of
196      1991      1002      1993   Total 1989-98  Investmnt
Gnoerati on                    1154.6   1266.8   1097.6    724.0          4248.6           78.6
Tranmalslon                     168.4      65.4      36.2      71.0        841.0            6.2
Dtstrlbutlon                     94.6      04.8      07.8      74.2       8W1.1             5.6
General Invesmnte               268.2    188.2    120.3    120.2           686.9           11.5
Total Base Cost                1601.0   1580.0   1821.6    99S.0          6622.6          16W.9
Price Contingenctos              42.0    116.1    169.0    101.8           6e7.5
TOtAL                    1728.0   164S.1   1496.6   1171.8         0088.1
COELBA
Generation                       28.4      44.9       5.0       0.0         76.8           10.2
Transmission                    118.4    111.2       74.7      86.4        886.7           48.7
Distribution                     95.6    90.8        67.7      66.8        824.6           42.8
General Inveetmnta                7.8       7.0       7.2       7.3         28.8            8.6
Totel Base Cost                 244.0    256.4    164.6    112.0           707.6          100.6
Price Contineaeles                6.1      19.3      19.8      20.5        B6.7
TOTAL                    260.7    275.7    174.4    182.5           688.8



- 84 -
ANNEX 8.2
BAIL
Table 8
ELECTRICITY TRANSNISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
DNESTIENT PRORAIM (US$ million)
COPEL
X of
1990      1991      1992       1998    Total 1989-98   Investmnt
Generation                       286.2      228.4     166.8     228.6         6C8.6            59.5
Transmission                      76.4       76.7      84.5      29.9         213.5            16.2
Distribution                      56.0       58.2      58.4      58.1         215.7            15.0
Cnornal Investoento               40.8       43.0      81.2      82.5         147.0            19.2
Total Base Cost                  466.9      408.3     285.4     889.1        1434.7           10.,
Price Contlngencles               10.2       80.8      86.5      62.1         139.1
TOTAL                     417.1     438.0      821.9     401.2        1578.8
CPFL
Generation                         8.0        8.6       1.7        1.7         14.4             8.0
Transmission                      36.6       88.7      85.4      50.0         187.7            84.9
Distribution                      45.6       46.7      56.6      52.0         199.9            41.6
General Investments               27.5       24.1      26.0      26.4          908.0           20.4
Total Base  Cost                 116.7      112.5     110.7     182.1         480.6           100.0
Price Contingencies                2.9        6.5      15.2      24.2'         50.0
TOTAL                     119.6     121.0      183.9     156.8         630.8



- 85 -
ANNEX 8.2
BRAZIL
Table 4
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROGRAM (US8 *l III on)
ELETROPAULO
X .f
1990     1991      1992     1993   Tot 1 1989-98    Investmnt
Generation                       75.9     84.8      94.6      84.2      889.8             19.8
Transmission                    169.7    142.4    162.9    166.9        640.9             87.6
Distribution                    9W.1    182.8    115.5    187.4         475.6             27.8
General Inve-tmente              62.6     76.5      64.0      56.5      263.6             14.8
Total Base Cost                 899.8    486.8    487.0    488.0       1769.6            160.0
Price Contingenceos              10.6     82.8      66.9      80.2      178.9
TOTAL                    408.8    469.1    492.9    518.2       1888.5
LIWIT
Generation                       17.6     88.8      48.7     68.6       163.7             18.1
Transmission                    169.1    176.4    206.4    125.6        816.6             49.2
D3stributlon                     78.1     62.1      79.5     77.8       812.0             24.9
General Investmente              81.2     46.6      48.7     84.4       160.9             12.8
Total Basa Cost                 281.0    U84.9    882.8    295.9       1258.1            16O.6
Price Contingncise                5.8     25.9      48.9     54.2       184.7
TOTAL                    286.8    869.8    481.2    86W.1       1867.8



- 86 -
ANNEX 8.2
BRAZIL                                           Table 6
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
1989-1998 EXPANSION PROGRAM
INVESTMW   PROGRAM (US$ million)
ELETROSUL
U of
1990         1991      1992      1998     Total 1989-98    Investment
Generation               608.7        798.6    940.1   1111.9           8446.8            80.2
Transmiasion             114.8         78.6    122.9        12.1         820.4             7.6
General Investments      ff.4         187.8    154.8       177.1         629.1            12.8
TotaI 80. Cost (6/69)   775.9        1081.5   1217.8    1881.1          4295.8           166.9
Price Conttngsncis       19.4         75.8      156.7     288.8         488.8
TOTAL                  795.8       1076.8    1878.0    1689.4         4764.6
TOTAL POWER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1991 - 1984         1998 - 1991
A. By Category                          - _
(US$ million)
Generation                       10898.0              11866.6
Transmisslon                      8825.0              7295.1
Distribution                      2041.0               8874.1
Othor                              640.0               1972.1
TOTAL SECTOR                        17899.0              24587.9
B. By Percentage
(S)
Generation                          62.6                46.4
TransmIssion                        22.0                 29.8
Distribution                        11.7                 15.8
Other                                8.7                  8.0
TOTAL SECTOR                          100.0                100.0



-87 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Rates Adiustment Plan (RAP)
1.       The Gcvernment will adjust the  rates  for the sale of electricity
of the Electric Power Sector Companies to: (a) achieve a level of monthly
average of revenues per M0.h sold (the basic rate) equivalent to not less
than NCz^103.40 stated in prices of mid-July 1989, which the Guarantor
agrees is equivalent to US$54/MWh; (b) maintain thereafter the basic rate
at a level eqt:ivalent to (a) above, and; (c) compensate for inflation every
thirty (30) days or otherwise as ftequently as the Bank and the avernment
may agree.
2.       In calculating  the  rate  increases  referred  to  in paragraph 1
above, the computer model prepared by ELETROBRAS and attached to this Annex
will be followed. The model reflects values, actual and forecast, of the
monthly average and annual average revenues per MWh sold, stated in current
Cruzados Novos. The value of each month will be restated in constant
Cruzados Novos by deflating such monthly value by the variation of the IPC
of the current month related to the base period of July 1989. The model is
to be reviewed and, if necessary, revised periodically by the Government,
through DNAEE and SEAP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (such model,
as it may be periodically revised hereafter called the Table).
3.       To compute monthly values, the  Table takes into consideration the
following: (a) actual and forecast power market sales per month; (b)
consumption by consumer category; (c) rates per category; (d) day of the
month on which the increase is enacted; and (e) percent of average increase
or new structure of tariffs by categories.
4.       In connection with the rate  increases referred to in paragraph 1,
the Government will cause ELETROBRAS to prepare and to submit to the Bank
on a monthly basis after review by DNAEE and SEAP (or another competent
agency), the following:
(a) an updated table:
(b) evidence of publication in the Diario Ofic'al da Uniflo of DNAEE 's
(or the pertinent agency's) approval of the rate increase;
(c) comparison of the percentage increase of nowinal rate levels and
changes in the IPC;
(d) a summary report containing an evaluation of the development of
costs, a comparison of the evolution of rates and the level of
prices, in accordance with the Manual, and a technical comment on
developments   which   might   adversely   affect   the  financial
performance of the Electric Power Sector Companies.
5.       For the purposes  of  the  RAP,  the  following definitions apply:
'inflation' is defined as month'.y variation of prices as measured by the
IPC; 'IPC means Indice de Precos ao Consumidor as published by the
Guarantor's Fundacyo Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica;
"DNAEE" means Departamento Nacional de Aauas e Energia El4trica, and SEAP'
menas the Guarantor's Secretaria Especial de Abastecimentos e Precos.



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PR( jEo 3
Tariff Averages NCZ$ and us$ per MWh Sold
(July 1989 prices)
IESEC                                                                tn1                                              M9Y7
Dia      AIJEJITO   cwrestf   rrigio         DtA      _1101   cwmates  corrigido               OlA      AUEN1TO   Corltt   tMw*oldn
-IN!AL                                        mis.1  ---NAI
(2)      CzSAnlb    USIAUt           _                Czh                                       I)       Ct:iNVh    IUrs.1'
JAN         _9_22.D                            35,43                  '154                   39.9           -          -           499.2l      31.14
1EV         9'         31.9         P9S        34,74       1         7.9         3331.93     3?.            -           -          497.95      33.39
.6        12.2         134,97      43        Os          0.4        WAS3        39P11           12        43.1        sa.61        31.4S
Al          -           -          129.68      41,94                 -381,45                 4,41           74         56.4        704.9       34.16
MI          -           -          129.39      39,24      -          ^3.10                   39.76          .'4        21.7        99."9       .0.91
inl                    29.1        129.54      36,2V      -          -9,9"                   39             1          45.0       137.74t      47.79
IL          20          8.3   t     S1,31.7    3.                                 37- 1.86                  1                     1979.9e5  --.91
AN          20         2.5         169,92      36,7    V-.0                                  37.94                                1971,.7W     !P4.97
Yt          2a          9.5        204.99      4.42      -                      39.325       D7,9            It         6.1       1949.91      ;*.,,4
UT          2e        2z.0         M."         a,"        -          -          376,0        37.76          1           8.1       29'9.41      i1.$9
on          29         14.2        V3,22       44,"       2         22.?        386.9        37*O           1 t        13.6       23.02        5O,31
9e          23         12.3        312,34      44,3                              443,37      39,-.7                    19.S       2'5AS.*3     47.44
IIDIA                               372.96      42.13                             153,3       39 A                                 3*99*9       4I It
mm         _    W        __         _                                                                s:O:::t::::::::s:sDS__ 
DUI          TO    cmrft esin   corrioie       Ot1       aI1,    cowrrmtus  torriaedo          VIA       E33O    crrortts    *orrc3i vg
m0|is, _                                       urns.             -------- -            'NI--
is)      Cull        USIll                      (R          aI         S/IM                     (2)       KArMI       tI3/l
to       19.0         2131.24      51.S0   91116    25 14.2             '35,93      39,12    1W/2       9.39/40.       597.76        47,93
Ff9          12        IS.0         236.45       52.1       -            -            43.11       46.04      29       "4.            912,43       49.93
Ns           21        20.9Y        43,11        52.72      -            -            44.3        43,        29          .0         1244.29       ,49.9
-            21        It.S        510.93        52.3       -                         44.37       40,96      29        49.3         1764.14         0.58
AI           29        19.20       60139."   * 2,53                                   44 v."  .S55  37,41
JUN          11        V.A           .S3         52.31      2         2.09            30.69       44,9
JIL          It        19.53       9     n43     Sl6      05/23    1   .3L 38.*        2.39       32.59
an         1/22    20.U/5.30    10.3             52.13      20         V.39           96,61       34."                                                    WI
SEt          Ho       2.U         1149,51        5S."       20         3.01          119,21       35.42                                                   2 
IIU1         o        24.3           11.3        54 .311    20        35.95          14,38        25,47                                                      I
NW           91       2.7         2'It,1         54.25    ra       2.0441.3         24.R2         37." 4 
OE!          9        25.         29761.7        53.32     53      0.W/ 6.7          7m           43.°2
ot1 t                               113S$6   194233                                   113,33 3CZ31
Note: Rate of Exchange IUS$ - 1,9142 NCZ$



-83-
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Financial Covenants and financial Performance Ratios
1.       ELETROBRAS agreed to  conduct  its  operations  in accordance with
agreed  ratios  of  financial  performance.       Set  forth  below  are  the
definitions of the various ratios and related financial covenants:
Financial Ratios and Financial Covenants: ELETROBRAS
i.   Total Coverage:   This  ratio  results  by relating gross internal
generation of funds plus interest and financial charges on debt to
total debt service  plus  dividends.   "Gross tIternal generation"
means total revenues related to operations, excluding revenues
attributed  to  equity  equivalency   (non-cash  revenues  due  to
appreciation  of  ELETROBRAS's   shareholdings  in  the  operating
utilities), plus amounts received as amortization of loans to the
operating utilities, less total operating expenses (such as
administration, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, and interest and
other charges on debt). "Total debt service" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. "Dividends" means
the total dividends paid or available for payment to stockholders
by ELETROBRAS.   ELETROBRAS  agreed  to  seek Bank concurrence for
borrowing if its coverage ratio was less than 1.1.
ii. Ratio cf Debt to Equity: These are calculated and expressed as a
percent  of  total  assets.      "Debt"  means  long-term  debt  or
indebtedness maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it was  incurred.    "Equity" means the sum of total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings, and reserves not
allocated to cover specific liabilities plus reversion reserves.
"Revereion reserves" means funds of the RGR to the extent utilized
or to be utilized by ELETROBRAS to finance any portion of the
investment program of the operating utilities. ELETROBRAS agreed
to seek Bank concurrence for borrowing if its debt-equity ratio
were greater than 60? to 40Z.
iii. Ratio of Financial Investments: This ratio results by relating the
aggregate  outstanding  amounts  of   loans  and  other  financing
provided by ELETROBRAS to the operating utilities and Itaipu to
ELETROBRAS's total outstanding  debt.    ELETROBRAS also agreed to
take all action required to maintain a financing ratio of not less
than 1.                I



-9o-
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 3
Financial Ratios and Financial Covenants: Other Beneficiaries
2.       ELETROBRAS also agreed to obligate the other beneficiaries through
subsidiary loan agreements to conduct their operation in accordance with
agreed financial ratios. Set forth below are the definitions of the ratios
and related financial covenants.
i.   Rate of  Remuneration:  As  defined  and  calculated  according to
Brazilian legislation in law 5655 of May 20, 1971 and as amended
to the date of this agreement. For generating companies, the rate
of remuneration would range between 6Z and 8?; for companies
contributing to RENCOR, between 102 and 12Z; for companies
receiving RENCOR allocations, between 8? and 10.
ii. Adjusted Debt Service Coverage: This ratio will be calculated in
respect of any fiscal year by relating the net revenues of the
respective beneficiary to its adjusted debt service requirements.
"Net revenues' means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to
take account of the rates in  effect  at the t':e of incurrenc' of
debt, even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less the sum
of all expenses of operation and maintenance, plus taxes, if any,
but before provision for depreciation and amortization of assets,
interest, and  other  charges  on  debt.    (The  concept  of *net
revenues' is similar to the concept of 'gross internal cash
generation"). "Debt-service requirements' means the aggregate due
and payable of amortization and interest and other charges on
debt.   'Adjusted  debt-service  requirements'  excludes from debt
service requirements: (1) amounts which have been paid or will be
paid in such fiscal year by the shareholders of the beneficiary
with contributions to the capital of the respective beneficiary
made or to be made to fund any such payment; (2) amounts of
irterest which have been paid or will be paid with the proceeds of
loans contracted by the respective beneficiary that include
financing of interest during construction; (3) payments on account
of principal which have been or will be deferred to a later fiscal
year or years with the consent of creditor of the respective
beneficiary; and (4) until December 31, 1995, payments on account
of principal of debts of the respective beneficiary to commercial
banks in currencies other than cruzados novos which have been paid
oc will be paid with the proceeds of loans contracted by the
beneficiary and which are not to be repaid during such fiscal
year.    ELETROBRAS  would  convert  enough  of  its  loans and/or
contribute equity, including dividends, to enable 'Its subsidiaries
to achieve agreed annual adjusted debt-service coverage ratios.
State governments would make the required equity contributions to
enable their respective power companies tc perform financially as
agreed.  For  generating   companies,  the  adjusted  debt-service
coverage ratio would be 1.1(X) in 1990 and increasing annually
thereafter. For the other beneficiaries the adjusted debt service
would be not less than 1.5(X).



-91-
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 3
iii. Debt/Capital Expenditures Ratio: This ratio will be calculated by
relating the aggregate of all debt incurred in respect of any
fiscal  year  by  the   respective   beneficiary  to  its  capital
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred in that fiscal
year. (The concept of 'Debt' is similar to the concept of 'Annual
Borrowings"). "Debt' excludes long-term "roll-over" borrowing for
foreign-currency loans -- that is, 'debto excludes payments on
account of principal of debts to commercial banks in currencies
other than cruzados novos  which  have  been  paid or will be paid
with  the  proceeds   of   loans   contracted  by  the  respective
beneficiary and which are not to be repaid during the same year.
*Capital expendituresn means the aggregate amount of capital
expenditures during any fiscal year incurred on account of fixed
assets, including interest charged to construction, related to
operations. The individual beneficiaries would limit their annual
borrowing to no more than 652 of their capital expenditures in the
subject fiscal year, except for the beneficiaries contributing to
RENCOR, who would limit their annual borrowing to no more than
70X.
iv.  Total Debt/Total  Net  Fixed Assets  Ratio:  This  ratio will be
calculated in respect of any fiscal year by relating the debt of
the respective beneficiary to its total net fixed assets. 'Total
debt' means long-term debt or indebtedness maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it was incurred.
*Total net fixed assets' means the gross value of fixed assets
plus construction work-in-progress and deferred charges to fixed
assets,   as   revalued,   less   accumulated   depreciation   and
amortization  of  deferred   charges   to   fixed   assets.    All
beneficiaries would maintain a  ratio  of  total debt to total net
fixed assets not greater than 671.



- 92 -
Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Key Indicators of Historic Financia: Performance
1985   1986    1987    1988   1989
Companyt CELESC
Rate of Remuneration (2)       2.J    -0.7    3.2       3.4     NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    1.0        3.O    3.2      2.5      NA
Self Financing (2)              74       97     83       97     NA
Debt/Total Assets (S)           41       36     37       35      NA
Company: CEMIG
Rate of Remuneration (2)                                         NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    1.6    1.4        2.6.    1.2       NA
Self financing (2)                                              NA
Debt/Total Assets (X)                                            NA
Company: CERJ
Rate of Remuneration (2)       2.2    5.1.    1.3.    0.3.    NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    2.7    5.1.    4.3         9.9      NA
Self Financing (2)              25      32      26       57     NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)            3       2        2       4      NA
Company: CESP
Rate of Remuneration (Z)       6.5    5.5      7.5      9.2      NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    0.6    0.5        0.6      0.6      NA
Self financing (X)             107      95     114      102     NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)           58      55      60       64      NA
Company: COELBA
Rate of Remuneration (Z)       5.3    1.1      0.3      6.6.    NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    2.6    1.5        0.9      1.6      NA
Self financing (Z)              NA      NA      NA       NA      NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)           53      57      60       62      NA
Company: COPEL
Rate of Remuneration (Z)       6.2    3.7      9.8      6.9      NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    1.9    1.2        2.0      1.9      NA
Self financing (2)              43      13      52       33      NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)           57      55      57       56      NA



- 93 -
Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 2
Company: ELETROPAULO
Rate of Remuneration (Z)      9.2    9.3      12.9    9.3      NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)      NA    1.2       1.5    1.8      NA
Self financing (2)            -48      -2      -43    -32      NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)           77     71       68      59     NA
Company: ELETROSUL
Rate of Remuneration (2)      6.6    5.1      4.8      3.8     NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)      NA    1.8      4.3      1.5     NA
Self financing (2)             NA      NA      NA       NA     NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)          67      66      52       43     NA
Comp*  : ESCELSA
Rate of Remuneration (2)      9.5    8.0      12.2    3.2.    NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    2.8    2.0        3.8    4.0      NA
Self financing (X)             54      24       64      32     NA
Debt/Total Assets (Z)          24      21       21      21     NA
Company: LIGHT
Rate of Remuneration (2)      6.3    4.8      10.5    12.0    NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    1.4    0.8        1.2    1.3      NA
Self financing (2)            121      19       96      48     NA
Debt/Total Assets (Z)          53      46       47      47     NA
Company: PAULISTA
Rate of Remuneration (2)      6.0    5.5      14.2    2.9      NA
Debt Service Coverage (x)    6.2    1.4        2.4    0.9      NA
Self financing (2)            129      35       34       0     NA
Debt/Total Assets (2)          80      54       54      43     NA



- 94 -
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION LOAN
POWER SEC. A ELECTRICITY REVENUES
1. Consumer bills contain the following charges:
(a) The basic tariff, which on a nationwide basis provided about 93Z
of revenues collected from consumers for electricity service in
1988.
(b) The Sole Tax (ICMS - Imposto de Circulacao de Mercaderias e
Servicos) on residential, commercial and sn.all industrial1
consumer bills, which provided about 2X of sector revenues in
1988. All of the proceeds of this charge accrue to state
Governments and municipalities, which under the new Constitution,
may decide how these funds are used. Formerly, forty percent of
the proceeds of this tax, called the Imposto Unico de Energia
Eletrica remained with the Federal Government and about 602 was
returned to the sector: 5O0 from the Federal Government and state
Governments and 10? from municipalities.
Cc)  The Compulsory Loan (5? of electricity revenues in 1988), an
obligator-y investment scheme under which industrial consumers
using more than 2,000 KWh per month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds
(20-year maturity yielding 6Z annual interest and revalued through
a monetary adjustment that makes reimbursements in real terms
significantly lower than original receipts).
2. The basic tariffs are set at a level designed to cover:
(a) operating, maintenance, and administrative costs;
(b) taxes other than income, principally property taxes;
(c)  straight-line depreciation on gross fixed assets at rates of 5Z
for thermal facilities, 4X for distribution and 3X for hydro
facilitiea;
(d) a charge on plant in service reduced by the sum of accumulated
consumer advances, contributions and grants (the 'Reversion
Base'). This charge which was recently modified by the RENCOR
(para. 5 below) consisted of:
Mi) Reversion Fund (RF), a tax of up to 4Z of the Reversion Base
(utilities are levied in proportion to their rate of
remuneration). This fund was used to compensate utility
companies when their concession reverted to or were taken
11 Industries using less than 2,000 KWh per month.



- 95 -
Annex 3.6
Page 2 of 3
over by Government. Presently, it is used by ELETROBRAS to
finance electricity utility expansion programs throughout
Brazil;
(ii) contributions to RENCOR, a mechanism designed to assist in
the transfer of revenues from the financially stronger
companies to the financial weaker companies.
(e) a fuel tax earmarked to pay the fuel expense in each
interconnected system;
(f) a return of between 102 and 122 on remunerable investment.
3.  The remunerable investment consists of:
(a) plant in service including capitalized interest, plus monetary
correction;
(b)  less acc-mulated depreciation, monetarily corrected;
(c)  less the year-end sum of contributions from custom.ers and
government grants;
(d) plus other remunerable assets, including an allowance for working
capital; and
(e) less the accumulated excess (or plus accumulated deficit) in
previous years remuneration (CRC account).
4. RENCOR. In 1988, Federal and stare power authorities agreed to replace
the Global Guarantee and Reversion Funds (GGF and RF) with the Reserva
Nacional de Compensacao de Remuneracao (RENCOR) enacted by decree-law 2432
transferring revenues from the financially stronger power utilities to the
financially weaker companies. The GGF and RF ceased to function in 1987
because certain state-owned companies, claiming that the Federal Government
had not set tariffs at levels consistent with the minimum rate of
remuneration (102), were successful in withholding their contributions to
the GGF and RF.
5. The main features of the new scheme are:
(a)  the requirement for utilities toi make lpaymentq tt! REIIOR o.ily when
they have achieved the legal maxinitm rat'o of remuitiati"ln. 12.
(all state-owned lower titiljtio~ Iav- l0pn grant-d 1lw letgal
minimum rate of remuneration. 10):
(b) the division of RENCOR funds into three parts: Ci) one part is
transferred to utilities earning loss than the legal minimum rate
of remuneration, as GGF funds were transferred: (ii) one part is
transferred to ELETROBRAS. as RF futids were transferred; and (iii)
one part remains in the utilities:



- 9E6 -
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 3
(c) the use by the utilities of credits in the 'Conta de Resultados a
Compensar' - CRC - (which registers accumulated shortfalls below
the legal remuneration acknowledged by the Government) to satisfy
amounts due to ELETROBRAS because of prior nonpayment to the GGF
and RF; and
(d) miscellaneous items such as fines for delays in payment to RENCOR,
other voluntary compensations of pending debits and credits
between utilities and the Governmient, monthly adjustments of the
fiscal tariff, a transm_ssion charge for Itainu energy, and
allowance for emergency or temporary tariff    . harges for certain
utilities without undermining the principle ot uniform national
tariffs.



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS: Actual (1986-88) and Forecast (1989-93)
Financial Projections
Income Statement
___              _    _ _______ _ _                         _     _    _           _ an   ---                               ._
tA11      1      an                I                                         I     WAS        I     WAN       2      mA
.  _... ..  __....  ..  -  --   -------
M.CEnw mis   WAmmS                                           MIs.am*  .  au.                 2 itmi a.      2 W6.3  P        2 1fn.4 166      269.  U.S        131396
81 [wedI8   I  SM49O                      3.9 3.1       1 544.4 hiM:1    Is 19906         111.   94          M9.0  ".9     22.   15            01.1           Miii  u5 ." m
41#.2 4U   2116.6)-IM         1. .U6.  a.s                     64.  1.1.701     57  99.44        35.4 19.         ISA  19.3
Otwadeuga   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.?2.21                 33.2  2.4                                               It,0I40
I.al.u xa Pac l c N Nst, ai  aa                                                                                              4.f  14        411111A1
= SF .ttro - ud^ff@- tttzj 2 iS27.4 V."    ii 3th. W  t3.W    a Mj             I,. * s
e-sKu(siswslmass                         £127.4 41.95  :t in.. 903.91- § 9§ l.  05         1       5t2,) .t   1344  13.5    I 4X3.  51,75    I 14.  49.99    9t44.9
Eawga 4uf  15t III 66 42.                               I   ,2j  432    Iih                 13.3 41,4      1 3.A  4842    1 94j 4..32  t   1,4.5   .2a  i35.4   t
bvnaa Maaaaakrd,a                        16.4   -v i4      .   6.142      En,                   91. .1 t..2  1   it."9. 9n.44               Mal  9.3         59.5  I
Uln"lS  Admistr& awt                                                                                                             I     t   .    S tF|w #t,   **2|   .    .] Zt22
efuESIa 866  W1186                       I223.6 13.41        5.5  -2.91      9.    .        a 6e.5 41.6    I MW    6.1,4    I 103 6.26.5    a 26.5 36.0       a 7u.o  ia.a
I.)UaE,4 LuIm_    " a                        2.   6.19        4.2  0.2         .9  Go"        t.3  6."          9.3  .45       19.   6.6         1.2  S."         1.  4.44
I*kamLi 64316614                           1241,9-90,54     8z3.2  -2.64    11616,41-8.16      O. 6.6          90.65l  il 0.6    06.0Wo 6.46 90.6              6.606 0.6
otiL   s AM    Ivar K 836               976.3 41.62     164.21 -4.29     19.3  1.65    i MgA  41.92    1164.0 44j6    a 39.4  46.3    I 516 51.6           I 53.0 51.3
4-59101506 93*61 NMI BE3 MO                         .6         .    . 6.0  0.6                 0.4   9.3LOSI  2   41u .1  8.92  54.6  2*0        54.6  2.92      1M.   2.29
laSOW2O   U   M CMIUIIC                     916.2 41.62     (94425 -6,2f     191.3  ?.6    16. 411    A 5           P1A.3 0 4   sMA  411.1    1461.6  41,92    I6 620 .aS
Id
0
0.



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds Statement
inwugi m SUM I IAMs mi
411I"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 stu
sit"U04193   o6                                                            mi 48    08              we         ("1.)  91        16.3  2.1         215,2  6.44      05.2  9.09         W.101.3 .5
010Ibataft faic useam                               I MA3.                AsU27                                                                31.  1 
t-*u.tna.paPwmef 0si6w4t                              153.1              0.31                9             15.l14                             195.1                               W:.
l-teairnss eaPumSfth Ist ft Oad                        W.41              0.0                .4.4                             4115.01                            664,               14.1
t-W"Bgamgde Ft                                        Spotatf   u.dm.'m. I5.  132810   I   .                2.               0.                6.                4813.
t-imnsiiui. is teigaigact -                               d..                                261~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,1  01    166               0.
*~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~     ~          ~         ~         ~        ,                             '9*3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie  :
dot       sai                     ...4.                                                1I
ODItESUtIo                                      2792.2 61.4      213. W    581l    I       4.2       2923.4 04.51    3 W161 ,94.6    2963.4  11.5  3          21.6  67.54    2679.5 6592
to bacen de Crediste blinf                                                                 4.,4w                              11..              ..*.1, 
I   a,ina crsitee  Uterma                             191.1            Amos              1111 35161                       1 95.2             VII23.           1 39.4            I 103.2
£.swi  ftctgisIo CevIis                          1.                72                0.               00                  4                                 4.3.0,             .
Ittft~ia ft C,di6o Cu   Irate  tua.ft)fsa. 0 1 52.      1641.0            124.               in4.                                au64  31.         2416.0            M0.&
TOTAL GA  mufs                                           0623. 10.0          W.3 10.6       4 39.2 60.6         93, 60.0       0 W.1 10,40    0 19.2 £0.n          4 W.9 W106        I W.% 10.0
iausraIW  I FSEIAIEkJIINUUM6                            9954.2 16,?    0 229.6  6.       244.  92.46t      2 15.4 "1153    2 201.1 01.05    3 MIS. 1H.1         3 530.1  10.5    3 510.2 ii.1,
Cmtlan,au                                           2$13.6            2294.41          2144A.7           2 413.            2 W6.?           3 29.1            2 52.7            250.2
Muega&                                                 ).                4.                                                                     0.0               9.
lliAZpt                                               51,              lt5                                                     .                *.0               0.0o             :.I,
iuwI!ui ruI*AsI                                       £ 06.6  24,42       21.3  0.o        IP.A  4.*         66.4  ,16,0      1.9  19,14       '16.0  21.01     a 10. I22.61       943.1 261.50
cistrelala                                            62.0              I1'?               6.656.4                           Mot9            9Mot             02.6               96.1
(41                                     in~~~~~~~.         0.0fA                                                6.0               0.6.3                              0.
WillS WttCIOIS LullS                                     £132  40.44      22.1             13.5               24.4             31.9              10.9              10.9             10.          e
WvM(asa  K CAPItA1 CIICAIMII L16118                      61.?  0.04      (13.,) 4.60       (20.2  0.5        11014.0  5.20    (25.0) 4,:62      151.1) -6.22       92f -2.01       ft2b.51 -2.00
u,s'ts                                                 4623,5) -0,53,     26.9  .0.6        1.2    0.4        4.3  0.      .0      0.0 s         40.3) 3.60        0#.#  0.0         1.0), 0,011.J
10306 606 Al. .C4COII ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~l.tol 4                   W2.   06 03,3 £40.0    4 31.2 MA.O    3 432.2104.0        001.160.0  4 10.2 10.0      4 412.9 66.01    4 W6.2 1006.00   Fj
.----,---..... ...- ------------------------------------------- -- ------.



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet Statement
--                       -         ---___----............... - - -  - --.--_._
...............5                        .     ................ _ ._  ._  .. __  __                  ..6-_.9 ._ _. _
----------- ------ -                                              3     W          2                I     WAN        I       M        I     we        a      WN.
tille   RifA 64 &u1neo                     411160  1.. 3A..           1         56.21 M.5  0.6  26.6  5,6       MA    .9        67.4  s.u         5 r2.p  Lft      M.   6
IIwulasa                                l232  a."        1141.5  0.         1       j       121  ,t           12    0.        124   l,3         24  0.14        12.4 a.i1
go         a e   tot         r           f12.4  9.44      62  0a.15        U.S" 9          211 .0            9,6   141       22    1*          16.1  t1.        "4A    11.
t vdIV . Ci""lE a SIF kw                     12.1 4.21     19.2  01        hA   9.3         112.)  9.36." 27 IU91                   6 1.7  1a  11..27 I                8.*2.
#ir.                           11.1~~~~~~~~~W  9112  It.  93 kw         *         3. 9              2.6  6.23      I 92.   0.1       0,    4.5        9 .6 I,
WSIM511 I. IVA(CS3   s                  t14 V37.1 U.     1211.1 1        I,3 15y .      9*    M9  ,.       19 W.  3.9   21 4q.5  53.93   23 2 .  39.2 21 31  W.653
I  FS E                          toSS  462.2 41.31    9 61 2.1     10 US.  41.      H   .9 6.3    12 925.4 2954   14 241.4 29.13  IS S.9 2.            S? 116.4 3.12
Ulm4  AM1OS                                   .0 63          22.0  64.6       3.    .W         31 0.              .   0,I        22.7  0.0"       22.1  0.04       3.1   0*6
I01. 40 riv                              25 22.9 1.0    26 294,2 140    2 14.0 £1.    8    6U               30415 116.        26 3191.0 56.    4641 ,0 10.3   3q  3V.1 j3.
96313  hUalf Omi03o                         421.2  1.49      314.4  1.26      2I12.31,         412.   1.41      @04.9  1.3       woo9  1.62      13.   3.02       91.9  2.01
f0arli t tuuiec,iataotn a (sanAsms       231.9  0.92      34.9  1.68       1341                                              2942  0          3112.2
hgur                 ~~~~~~131,1  0.62  0.0  ON.3           5.1                 3        "I.6 'it                          I4.   R,7
11111ISMI I F116.aIOI                    14 132.  35S.1    14 610.1 15,6      s11401           M   .62    14 39.? 42.    15 112.4 42.64   11W 36.  051   £9 64.4  a.92
....... 4191.. 16.,3_,,1.3 14.,5                                           at                _.    1613                                      24 040  3 M
3 O&I. audi 64.wI  2512.; aaim.    ~   10.10   4.3                          t. 6 4  tO
IC                           26~~~~~~~~~~~~21.7 11.17    2854.3  1.a. wet                                                          4  f    13.11    5 
O0s3M6664l1166680                     302566f"             t!-  J II IHi  I                                                                  I
W    20.44.H  101.f CZ1  a1U                                                                   3.43,WKDM3
Lww.~~iaigagamaa.i           7~~418.2  .4     143.6                                                      tol    91                13       &4)J
D"   msivu                     ~~~~36.2  60.      it'   0.,7      5041  0.23         's#            54.5  $.Vl       sos4. 0.15       50.1  0.33       54.5  sell
W44 OS t*1SIVD                          25 322.9 340.3   24 29.2 $110.41   a3174.300two    a9 324 t10.1    a03.4In.*36   . U69.011.               644t.914 0.    =3.I1, "k
0~



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Indicators of Financial Performance
... .... .. .............. ...................... -    __ --------  -... --   - .. ------        . . .._ . _ ..................... ... .  ........-. -_._--  ---------       -
;*-                        - ----- ------- - -                                           - - - - ------ ----------   -----.----        l - .--------
* hisd_ M Ceetw. 1dabwwri_) A                      RAG                                          0.2            *1.1            .1             e
We,s4*s a Macsam Idri_mma L                        *n  n ts  12 .Liquid*                                                                      MI
* Wi'ee0 eMma. a. eatrmm.OL.ui.Eet.mI.  32           0.                            0.
it; ames i,q.a,dtIIdal 4*'li^Sb- Ms                042            0.42           0 0            ti                            Ia
rbuf 4*r bt'w    4  I.,iim  }. Uwmaaesl Cm4    05,1                            4  *|5
|   tX  X  8 dx t~~~~~~~~~~ie                                                             4*1i
ks                                                                                         6.42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
42'-*' t "inX  1M~t co  U   ,tB4. .5:".".
MU~~ 4*                                    0.70                                          0*             011 KOil                      Cd              0.641
Us @iet(ti~U SiCII*g,aca             04             0.51                           *.             0P.M 0* 
"  i _ t *^ vlitF " *Fte_|* tSsZ  *:%   *:%       :;;            :              :*             ' -             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~43  U"  "A
, ue    o.f.               111.K.M                                            _,- -0 -  - -2                                   . -.-                          ."-
1~~~ul 4* Pasyus   2.44  1.12                      5.2             s~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~.n  s*;64
2:fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06108
0.68~fi



- 101 -
ANNEX 8.6
BRAZIL
ELECTRICM  TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USS milion)
IBRD Filal Year            Dtubursoments du-          Cummulating Disburse-
and Somestr                ring Semester              mntc at End of Semester
1991
Dec.81,1990                    85.0  1/                   85.0
June 80,1991                   16.9                       45.0
1992
Doc.81,1991                    40.0                       8S.d
June 30,1092                   40.0                      126.0
1998
Dc.31,1992                     660.0                     165.0
June 38,198                    C0.0                      285.0
1904
Doc.81,1998                    50.9                      285.0
June 80,1994                   40.0                      825.0
1995
Doe.81,1994                    45.0                      87060
June 89,199S                   15.0                      U85.0
NOTES:
I/ Initial deposlt In the Spaeil Actcount at the Central BDnk.
Loan Closlng Date : June 80,1995



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Prolect Implementation Unit
ELETROBRAS                             PROJECT EXECUTING BCDY
(SUPPORT)
FINANCE                                        t
DIRECTORATE - _                              SPECIAL PROORAMUS
(DEF)      .    -                        COORDNATION - COPE
PLANNING 8    .                               _
EN INEIN    - - -         - - -     -- - - -
DIRECTORATE                                    _
(DPE)      .__                                                        _  
i  _ .-~     -  -                    CON0TROL]
SYSTEM      : _
OPERATION   _
DIRECTORATE    I            -       - 
COORCDNATION       
DIRECTORATE-
(DCO)
IBUSIESS             EALUATION         PROCUREMENT        SUPERVISION       ADMINISTRATION
I MANAGEMENT I-
| DIRECTORATE    :    Beneflciaries/    Coordination       Supervision     Loan Disbursement
(DGE)      l  Project Evakiathon   and Morltoring     and Mondtorig     and Applications
FK\W46277
sKw4e2n~~
Ix



BRAZIL
ELECTRICM  TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
CEMIC
1988     1987     1966     1996      1990     1991     1992     1998     1994      1996
Numbr of Customers (1000)          2200     23e6     2416     2639      2651     2784     2878     2987     3099      3208
Number of Employee                16990    17490    1865    189804    19803    20813    21762    22633    23504    24377
Customers per Employee              129      182      130      136       134      133      132      132       132      132
Energy Los ses  )                   5.8      8.8      8.1      9.0       9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0       9.0
0
l
CERJ
Number of Customers (1000)          812      644       669     879       917      953      990    lU2        1os     1104
Nuubr of Employees                 6172     5100     6132     8067      0351     6447     6581     6720     6816      6953
Cust_mrs per Employee               167      106      142      145       144      148     1S       15a       156      169
Enorgy Losss M)                      14       16       16       17        17       16       16       15        14       14
0 ;



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
CESP
1966     1967     1988     1989    1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
Number of Customers (1888)       858.2   741.4    768.7   628.6         883   902.8   944.4   986.1  1B24.7  1083.3
Number of Employees              16824    15179    15918    15922   16311    18618    1686    18969    17263    17661
Customers per Employee           N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.
Ener9y Losse  (3)                          24.2    26.6    26.6    26.5    24.8    23.6    22.5            21.6     20-9
COELBA
Number of Customers (1B9)       1361.4   1445.6      1538   1828.5   1718.6  1612.6   1911.8   2014.4   2120.1   2228.9
Number of Employees               7748     7798      7726     7834     7884     m9       6214     B665     9029     9290
Customers per Employee             175      185      196      221      234      233       288      288      236      246                   '
Energy Losses (3)                 12.5     12.0      10.6    10.3    10.1        9.9      9.8      9.7      9.B      9.5



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
COPEL
1988     1987     1998     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1996
Number of Customers (I60)       1107.6  1243.1  1309.7  1367.9  1483.7  1600.6  1668.6  1630.2  1692.2  1765.9
Number ot Employees               8941     9310     9437    10379    10726    10916    11129    11301    11412    11674
Customers per Employee             133 1U4           189      132       134      1s7      141      144      148      162
Energy Louses (M)                  7.9      8.1      7.5      7.C      7.6      7.6       7.6      7.5      7.8      7.6
CPFL
Number of Customer  (1096)      1286.4  1316.1  1380.1  1487.0  1499.3  1668.8  1620.0  1682.1  1748.8  1813.6
Nui mr of Employees               740a     7877     7687     8006     8206     8411      8621     8636     9049     9268
Customrs per Employe               171      178      182      179      l83       185      188      190      193      198
Energy Losses (M)                  6.8      8.8      8.8      8.9      8.8      8.3       6.3      8.0      6.0      6.1                   I  X



BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ELETROSUL
1966    1967    196       1969    1986    1991    1992    1993    1994    199C
Number of Customers (10U)           9        9       9        9        9        9      1O       1O       1O       10                        A
Nu b r of Employ.e               4876    4439    4412    6998    7709    8051    8149    6149    8149    6149
Customer per Employre            N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.
Energy Lonee (X)                  5.3      5.4     6.0      5.4      4.9      4.8     4.2      4.0      8.9     8.6
ItF



RAZIL
ELIC1RICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ELETRWAULO
1986    1987    1988    1909    1990    1991    1992    1908    1994    1095
Number of Customers (1S")     8898.2  4926.1  4182.0  4841.0  4600.0  4859.0  4820.0  4984.0  6147.0  6512.0
Number of Employ e              21271   2060   21128   22448   23121   28026   24740   26683   26391   27224
Customers per Employee            188     195      198      198      196     196      195      195      195      196
Energy Lie  (M)                   7.4     7.2      7.1      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1      7.1     7.1
Number of Customero (1666)     2166.7  2196.4  2106.8  2202.1  2857.9  2418.8  2471.1   2630.3  2651.4  2688.0
Number of Employee.             14002   14162   14644   15078   16662   18822   16640   16061   17821    17667
Custore por Emplory               164      165     164      15"      147     140      148      149      149      149                  X
Energy Loses (M)                 10.1     9.9    10.2       9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0              'J'



- 108 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Technical and Financial)
The following periodic reports will be submitted by ELETROBRAS to
the Bank with respect to the beneficiaries:
1.   Updated five-year investment vrogram and financial Dlan
Date of presentation: By November 30 of each year
Statements:    - Market Projection
- Investment by Company and Major Project
- Cost of Service
- Flow of Funds
- Income Statement
- Balance Sheet
2.   Annual Financial Monitoring ReDort (of previous year)
Date of Presentationt By August 31 of each year
Statements:    -  Cost of Service
- Flow of Funds
- Income Statement
- Balance Sheet
- Financial Indicators
The consolidation required for the preparation of the above
statements will be certified by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.   Annual Budaet
Date of Presentation: By December 31 of each year
Statement: - Programa de Dispendios Globais (PDG)
4.   Quarterly Budaet Monitorins Report
Date of Presentation: 45 days after the end of the quarter
Statement: PDG



- 109 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 2 of 2
5.   Quarter Y Market Report
Date of Presentation: 45 days after the end of the quarter
Statement: Boletim Trimestral de Acompanhamento de Mercado
issued by DEMEIELETROBRAS
6.   Monthly Financial Report
Date of Presentation: 15 days after end of the month
StatementlFormat:  A table  prepared  by  DNAEE setting forth
the structure of the consolidated cost of
service for the electric power sector plus
(a) an evaluation of the development of
costs; (b) a comparison of evolution of
power tariff indices and tne level of
prices; and (c) a statement of measures to
be taken to correct developments which
might defeat the objectives of the PSRP.
7.   Quarterly Project Implementation Progress Report
Date of Presentations 45 days after the end of the quarter
Statement/Formats Relat6rio Trimestral de Acompanhamento
Fisico de Obras by DEME/ELETROBRAS
8.   Quarterly Monitoring Report of ELETROBRAS'program to enhance
Quality of Power Supply
Date of Presentations 45 days after the end of quarter
-   Statistics of Power outages/curtailments
-   Reliability levels
-   Evaluation  of  industrial  consumption  under subsidized
tariffs
-   Structure of power supply (hydro, nuclear, oil, and coal)



WmiL
8TmICIY TRMSSOISCN MSND COS6ERVAT1 P8tJlal
BMNWlIC H4ALIS'V
year
Cost Stream  (USS *illIon)                                                Benef;t Streams (US* aslion) S/
Capibal Costs                               Operation and Muintenance 4/           Total    Total Ierest.
------ -~~-~- ~   ~-~ -~------------       ---    Coet    Sales   Sales    Total   Nst
Gneration Tran_mision Distribution Other Total   Generation Tranemioason DOtterbution Purchases Toatl   --    (Os)   (Osh)  bnftIt  BweneItI
ca~
1990     28.4      113.4       9W.8      7.8   244.6       0.0       1.1         1.0         2.2    4.2   248.8    6299.0   95.8    S.2   -248.7
1991      44.9     111.2        93.8     7.0   256.4       0.0       2.2         1.9         9.6   18.7   270.1    685.0   426.0   23.0  -247.1
1992       8.0      74.7        67.7     7.2   184.6       0.0       8.0         2.6        21.6   27.2   181.8    7422.0   961.2   S1.9   -129.9
1998      0.0       86.4        68.3     7.3   112.0       0.0       8.4         8.2        88.8   44.9  16.9    7945.0  1700.0   91.8    -68.1
194                                              0.0       0.0        1.4        8.2        59.4  6S.0    68.0    8460.0  2640.0  142.6    76.6
1W9                                              0.0       0.0       8.4         8.2        72.0   78.6    78.6    9020.0  3200.0  172.8      94.2
1996 -      I/       2/          8/              0.0       0.0       8.4         8.2        72.0   78.6    78.6    9020.0  3200.0  172.8      94.2
2040
Present Vsle of Costs (18 sIIion)             120.2
Preent VSlue of Benefits Cl# mlIliion)        1649.1
Total Not Praeent Value ( m million)           878.9
Internal Rat. of  etrn (eu   :                  15.8
CPFL
1990      8.0       88.6        48.6    27.6   116.7       0.0       0.4         0.S         8.4    4.2   120.9   12533.0   135.8    7.8   -111.6                               I
1991      8.0       88.7        48.7    24.1   112.8       0.0       0.7         0.9        18.7   18.8   127.0   1322.0   848.6   29.8   -90.8
1992       1.7      85.4        58.8    26.0   118.7       0.0       1.1         1.5        30.9   38.5   152.2   18918.0  1258.6   66.8   -84.4
1998       1.7     58.0         82.0    20.4   182.1       0.0       1.7         2.0        54.6   56.8   190.4   1406.0  2185.6  118.0   -72.4                                1-
1994                                             0.0       0.0       1.7         2.0        86.0   89.7    89.7   15294.0  8440.0  185.8      98.1
195                                              0.0       0.0       1.7         2.0       106.8  109.0   109.0   16068.0  4212.0  227.4    118.S
1t" -       1/       2/          a/              0.0       0.0       1.7         2.0       105.8  109.0   109.0   16068.0  4212.0  227.4    118.5
2048
Preent Vslue f Costs (US  illion):            1218.9
Pr_est V Iw  of Benefits (USS million):       2164.9
Total Net Present Value (UN million) :          981.0
Internal Rats of Return  ):                     32.6
alFEL
1990     228.2      75.4        5.0    40.8   406.9        0.0       0.8         0.6         0.7    2.0   408.9    9708.0    97.0    5.2  -403.7
1991     228.4      78.7        88.2    48.0   408.8       0.7       1.5         1.1         4.5    7.8   411.1   10722.0   S99.6   82.4   -878.8
1992     168.8      84.5        58.4    81.2   288.4       1.4       1.9         1.6        11.2   16.1   301.5   11711.0  1492.8  80.6  -220.9
199      228.6      29.9        68.1    32.s  8S8.1        2.1       2.2         2.2        19.4   28.8   864.9   12449.0  2560.8  189.4  -225.5
1994                                             0.0       2.1       2.2         2.2        29.0   88.5    85.8   1809S.0  8872.0  209.1    178.6
1995                                             0.0       2.1       2.2         2.2        84.2   40.6    40.6   13782.0  4859.0  246.2    208.6
196 -       1/        2V          8/             0.0       2.1       2.2         2.2        84.2   40.6    40.6   1*782.0  4589.0  246.2    208.6
2040
Preast Va lu of Cost (US1 milIIon)           1498.9
Prea_t Value ot benfits (8SS million):        28684
Total Nt Presaet V Iue  eSI atilIIon)         871.8
Srternal Rate of Return ():                     17.2                                                                                                                 lbw
ID4 
I.A~
1/ Generating plant span life Is ssumed at 50 years.Corresponding replaceent value Is mdc at year 80.                                                                     1_
2/ Transmission I ine.epan IfeItt   aemu-ed at 80 years.Correeponding replacement value is mde at year go.
8/ Distribution networkelepan  if* i- asued at 20 yeare.Correeponding repltcrent value is mde at year 2D.
4/ Costa are ba_e on the folloin esumption-: Generation: US6 83.00011year
Transmision: 1S of capital invetaent per year
Distribution: 85o a capital investmnt per year
Electricity Purchesb: 25 USII/IS
o/Avesra  retai taXrif: 70 WSjSi



BRAZIL
LBRICrTY TRANSMISSI&  IV CW4 ATION PROJWT
IONOIC ANALIs
Year
Cast Stream (US ml I ion)                                                   8enefit Stream  USS million) S/
Capital Coots                                Operation and Maintenance 4/            Total    Total Increst.
--  -  ------                 -  ------------------- Caste     Sales   S.o ."    Total   Mat
Oseratlon Tranealian Distribution Other Total   Generation Tran_m;lan Distribution Purchas   TotI   ----    (awh)   (*oh)  Benef its Benet ts
EETROSLL
1990     600.7      114.8        0.0    80.4   775.9         0.0       1.1         0.0          0.0    1.1   7.o   13910.0         0.C    0.0   -777.0
1991     798.8      70.6         0.0   137.3  1001.5         1.6       1.9         0.0          0.0    8.5  1006.0   18910.0       0.0    0.0  -1005.0
192      940.1     12.9          0.0   164.8  1217.8         8.2       8.1         0.0          0.0    6.8  1228.6   16214.0   782.4   42.2  -1181.3
1W9     111t.9      12.1         0.0   177.1  1301.1         4.8       8.2         0.0          0.0    8.0  1309.1   18168.0  8406.4  183.9  -1125.2
1994                                              0.0        4.8       8.2         0.0          0.0    8.0      8.0   18179.0  4269.0  280.5       m.5
199                                               0.0        4.8       8.2         0.0          0.0    8.0      8.0   19S20.0  6610.0  802.9    294.9
196 -       1/        2/                          0.0        4.8       8.2         0.0          0.0    8.0      8.0   20691.2  6781.2  866.2    388.2
2040
Presnt V lue of Casts (UQS1 ml llIon)           8419.5
Present V l uf Boneis I(US ml lion):           8432.0
TOtal Nt Present Vslw    S millian):             12.5
Internal Rat @ Return Ms:                         10.0
1990      75.9      169.7        90.1    62.6   896.8        0.0       1.7         0.9          8.1   10.7   409.0   46988.0   322.8   17.4   -391.5
1991      64.6     142.4        182.8    76.5   486.3        0.2       8.1         2.2         83.5   89.0   475.8   48720.0  1838.4   72.8   -406.0
I12       94.6      162.9       116.5.    4.0   487.0        0.4       4.8         8.4         80.8   88.8   525.8   50724.0  82o.o  178.8   -3s .4                                  I-a
1996      84.2      165.9       187.4    80.5   438.0        0.6       6.4         4.8        1S2.7  164.5   802.5   53009.0  6106.0  829.8   -272.68                                I-
1994                                              0.0        0.6       8.4         4.8        254.5  266.8   268.8  S554.0  10180.0  549.7    2e8.5                                 I-
199S                                              0.0        0.6       6.4         4.8        328.6  885.8   855.8   58314.0 12940.0  698.8    868.5
199 -       1/        2/          3/              0.0        0.6       6.4         4.8        328.5  335.3   335.3   s8814.0  12940.0  698.8    363.5
2040
Present Value of Caosts (US *i Illo) :          s74.1
Presnt Value of 8enefits    S millI n)          6S48.4
total Net PresentVlue V U I e  illion) :        2674.4
Internal Rats of Rturn  S)":                     27.4
LtON
1990      17.6     109.1         78.1    81.2   251.0        0.0       1.1         0.7          8.0    4.9   285.8   19958.0   141.8    7.8   -228.2
1991      88.8      176.4        82.1    48.6   343.9        0.1       2.9          1.6        18.2   17.7   361.8   20807.0   62.    33.6   -325.0
1992      40.7     205.4         79.5    48.7   382.3        0.2       4.9         2.a         30.4   W7.9   420.2   21687.0  1482.2   77.3   -642.9
198       58.6    125.8         77.8    84.4   29S.9        0.8       6.2         8.1         65.8   64.9   860.8   2956.0S   2604.0  140.6   -220.2
1994                                              0.0        0.5       6.2         8.1        89.9   '9.5    99.5   23481.0  4231.0  228.S    129.0
19s                                               0.0        0.3       6.2         8.1        112.4  122.0   122.0   24538.0  5288.0  285.6    165.6
199 -       1/        2/          3/              0.0        0.8       6.2         8.1        112.4  122.0   122.0   24538.0   M88.0  285.6    163.6
2040
Present VlIue of Coats CS miillion) s           1948.5
Preenl Value of efit. S M  ml I Ion)           2896.
Totnl Net Pr _st Value US *illon)                747.1
Intenal Rate of Return  1                         17.4
NOM:
1/ seerating plant span life is aseu_ed at 80 yore.Correoponding replacement value Is md, at year 60.
2/ Tranailesion li iiespan  if. is uood at 30 yeara.Corresponding replacement value Is mad at year 30.
8/ Distribution nstsorkalepan I ife is aesuge  at 20 years.Carresponding replacent valua is made at year 20.
4/ Casts are basd an the folloaini amueptiana: gesneratio; US$S 3000/W/yeur
Tranemsion: 1S at capital inventent par year
Distribution: 9 of capital investeent per yoer
S/ Averags retai I tariff 70 USI/Wth
Averag bulk tariff: 38 U6S/MI



BRAZIL
ELTRzICT TRMNIa9SIW AND CONSEVATIN FPR0JET
----------------------------------------------
EtOIINIC ANISYS
_______________
Year
Coot Streams (USI million)                                                  Benefit Streams (CUS m;l ion) 5/
Capital Coate                                Operation *nd Mointonance 4/            Total    Total Incrust.
--------- ---_ -------_--     -- _ _-_   --_----------C-S---------------------    Coat  Sale    Sale.    Total   Not
(Ineration Tranainaelon Diotrbuton Other Total   Oneoration Traneuimaion Distribution Purchase  Total   -----    (Cah)   (Coh)  Benfito Bnfit.
1990     418.1      128.        238.4    50.7   838.8        0.0       1.8         2.4          2.2    5.8   641.1   28499.0   290.2   15.7   -82.5
1910      84.8     150.0        236.6    57.6  1061.0        1.0       2.8         4.8         10.6   19.0  1050.0   30543.0  1898.0   75.5   -974.86
1992     600.6     200.0        249.4    66.9  1116.9        2.0       4.8         7.3         25.1   39.1  1156.0   32618.0  3342.0  180.5   -975.5
1i99     813.5     250.0        248.0    74.2  1068.7        3.0       7.3         9.7         45.8  68.5  1151.2   34628.0  6064.0  327.5   -823.7
1994                                               0.0       3.0       7.3         9.7         73.5   93.5    93.5   36843.0  9795.0  528.9    435.4
1995                                              0.0        3.0       7.3         9.7         86.9  108.9   108.9   3889S.0  11847.0  639.7    530.9
1996 -      1/        2/          S/              0.0        3.0       7.3         9.7         88.9  108.9   106.9   38895.0  11847.0  639.7    530.9
2040
Preent Value of Cost. (U* Imilion):             4168,8
Preeent Volue of Benefit. (UI millIon):         6069.4
Total Not Prevent Value (USI million):          1910.5
Internel Rat. of Return (S)                       15.9
CERJ
1990       0.3      11.1         41.7     3.6   56.7         0.0       0.1         0.4          1.3    1.8   568.      4401.0    50.4    2.7    -55.8
1991       0.1       4.8         40.8     2.4    47.6        0.0       0.2         0.8          4.7    5.7    53.3    4622.0   189.2   10.2    -43.1
1992       0.6       2.6         33.0     3.1    39.3        0.0       0.2          1.2        11.8   13.1    52.4    4935.0   471.6   23.5    -27.0
1998       0.6       2.9         84.4     4.0    41.9        0.0       0.2          1.8        22.1   23.8    65.7    5284.0   884.0   47.7    -18.0                                  1_
1994                                               0.0       0.0       0.2          1.5        35.8   37.5    S7.    5s579.0  1430.0   77.2        39.8
1998                                               0.0       0.0       0.2          1.S        44.0   45.7    45.7    5907.0  1758.0   94.9        49.3
1926 -      1/        2/           8/              0.0       0.0       0.2          1.5        44.0   48.7    45.7    5907.0  1758.0   94.9        49.3
2040
Proest Val uIe af Coste (W  ill ion  :           506 2
Preent VaIu of B8nefit. (UImllion)I              697 0
Total Nrt Proent Vaue e (LS million)             393.8
Internal Rate of Return (X)                       82.4
CESP
1990    11S4.6     168.4         94.8   268.2  1681.0        0.0       1.7         0.9          0.0    2.6  163. 3   49897.0       0.0    0.0  -1683.6
1991    1286.6      65.4         64.8   136.2  1530.0        2.0       2.8          1.6         0.0    8.9  1338.9   49897.0       0.0    0.0  -1565.9
1992    1097.8      36.2         67.0   120.3  1321.6        4.0       2.7         2.3          0.0    9.0  1330.6   49897.0       0.0    0.0  -I330.6
1993     724.6      71.0         74.2   120.2   990.0        6.0       8.4         8.0          0.0   12.4  1002.4   52906.0  2404.8  129.9   -872.6
1994                                               0.0       6.0       8.4         8.0          0.0   12.4    12.4   54115.0  4218.0  227.8    215.4
1998                                               0.0       6.0       8.4         3.0          0.0   12.4    12.4   56361.0  6864.0  389.9    347.4
1996 -      1/        2/           8/              0.0       6.0       S.4         8.0          0.0   12.4    12.4   s9954.7  10057.7  548.1    530.7
2040
Prean tValue of Coot Q(J *mltion):              4620.1
_revent Value of Senefitt  (WI mtilion)         6787.9
Total Not Preent Value (USI milion)             2117.8
Internal Rat of Return M:                         12.9
I/ Ooneratlng plant opan  ife t- aesueod at 50 yeare.Corroepondineg reoacelnt value ie made after year 50.
2/ Transmission Ilneospen life is aoumed at 80 yeare.Corromponding replacesent value is made after year 30.
3/ Distribution n.tw4rbe'opan life ie aeeured et 20 yearo.Cr. ,. esonding replaceenst value is mde after yeor 20.
4/ Cost. are bosed on tho fol losing asuption-: Coenerion: .18 3,000/14/year
Tra_mie-ion: 1S of capital Investment per year
Distribution: 35 of capital Investment per year
Electricity Purchaae: 25 USII/Wh
s/ Averape retaol tariff: 70 USWI/bh and everage bulk teriff: 86 USSI/Wk.



- 113 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
1990-91 PART A OF PROCEL
The demand management and conservation programs have been divided into four
groups given  their  nature  and  components.    A  detailed description is
included belowt
A. Programs on Load Management
1.       The Load Management Programs (LMP)  included in the project belong
to two different categories: (i) indirect load management (or pricing), and
(ii) direct load management and  control.   Both categories of LMP activity
modify the shape of the power system load curve by reducing total system
costs. These conservation programs generally require continuous activity
as opposed te investment programs in end-use or supply efficiency which
require only a single action.
(i) Indirect Load Managemen- (Pricing)
2.       The most successful and frequently less costly LMP to implement is
based on the use of price measures which result in modifications of
consumption patterns. These modifications tend to smooth (even-out) the
system load curve. This type of LMP provides symmetry between the system's
availability of peak relief and the availability of increasing load during
off-peak hours.   In  October  1981,  Brazil  started to implement measures
based on the results of a comprehensive study of long-run marginal cost
(LRHC) tariffs undertaken by DNAEE (in association with ELETROBRAS) and
Bank financing. The results of this study are being put into effect over
several years in the framework of currently enacted legislation. Today,
most industrial consumers connected so medium and high voltage levels are
being billed using time and seasonally adjusted marginal cost based
tariffs.
3.       By 1989, as  a  result  of  the  implementation  of the new tariff
system, about 2,100 MW (2,000 MW after implementation of the Blue Tariff
and 100 MW after implementation of the Green Tariff) have been displaced
from peak to off-peak hours resulting on a remarkable change on the system
load curve shape (see Figure 1). This change represents savings equivalent
to about US$3,150 millions, as a result of deferring the installation of
peaking capability. This is a consenrative estimate as it reflects only
existing consumers; new consumers will be connected to the system with
loads already modulated in response to the new tariffs.



- 114 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 2 of 8
4.       Consolidation of the pricing system (i.e., complete application of
the whole set of marginal cost based tariffs, and customers familiarization
with and complete understanding of them) is expected to produce additional
savings in new investments of about US$ 2,250 millions, through the
displacement of about 1,500 MW from peak to off-peak hours (see Figure 1).
It is expected that: ti) before January, 1992, the continuous application
of the Blue Tariff would displace an additional load of about 500 MW from
peak to off-peak hours, (iJ) also before January, 1992, the consolidation
the Green Tariff would displace another 500 MW; and (iii) during the first
six years of application of the Yellow Tariff, an additional 500 MW of load
would also be displaced.
5.       Other results from the  consolidation  of the pricing system which
are already benefitting the power sector and which are expected to be more
notable in the near future are: (i) a greater integration of consumers and
buppliers ai a result of a more adequate set of price signals that
integrate their interests into the decision making process; (ii) a
significant increase in end use efficiency which will result in benefits to
producers, distributors and consumers. Marginal cost based tariffs provide
consumers with the best possible set of signals to rationalize the use of
electricity. On the supply side this will allow for a more coherent
process of expansion and operation planning; and it will help to improve
the systems' actual operation (including a reduction in peak losses), as
well as the allocation of benefits resulting from sales and purchases of
electricity between power companies; and (iii) a better definition of
supply costs which will allow for a better definition of price levels for
each group of consumers, and improved appraisal of the cost of political,
economic, and social  constraints.    The  knowledge  of  the marginal cost
structure allows evaluation of subsidies and economic transfers between
consumer  groups,  thus   facilitating   political,  social,  and  economic
decisions. Additionally, it may serve as a basis for defining alternatJve
electrical power pricing strategies. 1/
6.       The benefits obtained are  the  result  of more than ten years of
efforts allocated to the power sector in order to provide optimal tariff
policy. The proposed project seeks to support and strength these efforts
through an economic evaluation of changes in the load curve and a nation-
wide evaluation of the components nf the load curve itself. The cost of
these two programs has been estimated at about US$680,000.
7.       In addition, the proposed  project  includes an increased focus on
the improvement of the average system power factor which will reduce
reactive power flows and thereby reduce  losses.   The cost of this program
has been estimated at about US$1.3 million, and its benefits related to
loss reduction are estimated at about 3,000 GWH per year--for Blue Tariff
/ These estimates are based on actual "effective" power prices billed
(about 35 below marginal costs, as shown in Annex 1.3, Table 7). If
prices were increased to reflect their respective marginal costs,
estimated benefits would look even more impressive.



- 115 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 3 of 8
customers. This would imply an increase in system power factor from 0.85
to 0.89 in 1990. 2/   These  electricity savings would result on savings in
investment of about US$9 million by only installing capacitors, and of
about US$750 millions by savings equivalent to 500 MW which corresponds to
deferral in the installation of additional capacity (see Attachment for a
detailed technical summary of this program and remaining ones included in
the DMC component). To achieve these savings, it is necessary to change
the existing reactive energy tariffs.
8.       In addition to the  above  measures,the  implementation in 1985 of
summer time (clock adjustment) was another successful application of
indirect load management.   This  measure  changed  the  load curve for the
period October to February and temporarily reduced the risks of blackouts.
The net result was an one time decrease of about 0.5% in energy consumption
and of about 3Z in power demanded during peak hours.
(ii) Direct Load Management and Control
9.       Direct LMP are  generally  implemented  through utility controlled
customer side reductions on water heating, air conditioning cycling, and
industrial load reduction programs, such as interruptible rates. The
utility provides a signal to the customer or directly to the customer load
to reduce and/or to interrupt consumption. These programs provide for peak
load relief and emergency load relief when the system is unable to continue
to  supply  the  load.    Programs  of  this  nature  have  been  developed
extersively within the United States to focus on high energy use loads in
the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. However, experience to
date with these programs has indicated that they are frequently expensive
to implement and maintain in other than the large industrial and commercial
sectors.
10.      Brazil's experience with  direct  LMP  is  very  limited, with the
major exception of rationing (load shedding) programs which have been
implemented when power systems were unable to supply the electricity
demanded. The proposed project seeks to complement the positive results
obtained so far by the Brazilian power pricing system, through pilot
programs on direct load management that use: (i) centralized telecommands;
(ii) decentralized telecommands; and (iii) devices specially design to
restrict demand. These pilot programs have an estimated cost of about
US$3.2 million.    Expected  benefits  are:  (i)  better  definition of the
centralized and decentralized telecommand equipment and systems and their
adaptability to the Brazilian power system; (ii) better definition of the
technical and the economic feasibility of power distribution load control
automatization  equipment  such  as  timers   in  terms  of  low-cost  load
management and also the use of hour-seasonal metering equipment. It is
expected that this automation will improve load management and control at
the level of circuits and distribution networks, which will .esult in
2/ DNAEE estimates that additional timing of this measure could result in
an increase of the power factor to 0.92.



- 116 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 4 of 8
optimized operation of power system through loss reduction, rationalization
of  operation,  and  conservation  of   energy;  (iii)  evaluation  of  the
advantages and convenience to use hour-seasonable tariff schemes on high
and medium voltage level consumers and the evaluation of equipment and
systems presently available in the national market for doing so; and (iv)
cost-benefit evaluation of adapting existing demand management equipment
and systems as "demand controllers".    In their most simple configuration,
these systems connect and disconnect previously selected (in priority
order) loads, when the user's power demanded is larger than the maximum
level agreed  to.    In  the  more  advanced configurations, microprocessor
systems allow for automatic monitoring, management, and control of the load
in close to real time. As an aggregate, it is expected that these benefits
will result in an electricity conservation of roughly 400 GHW per year at a
cost of about US$400 millions (or the equivalent of installation of roughly
300 MW of additional generating capacity during the period 1990-1992).
B. Programs on Energy Efficiency
11.      The energy conservation investments included in this component are
generally related to end-use industrial and commercial consumers and to
public lightning. As a result, such investments have not, to date in
Brazil, been considered in the power sector's least cost investment plan
which considers only supply options.    The end-use energy benefits derived
fr-' these programs are, however, significant. In fact, their average LRMC
is estimated to be about  US$15/MWH,  which is significantly lower than the
average LRMC of the sector's least cost investment plan (about US$71/MWH).
The proposed project includes the following programs on energy efficiency:
electrical furnaces, public lighting, power sector buildings, commercial
buildings, public buildings, laboratory equipment, training, energy audit
and studies, industrial demonstrations, and information. The first three
are implementation programs and, therefore, require significant investment
in equipment.    The  remaining  programs  are  a  preparation  for  and'an
appraisal of future subprojects, and include only studies.
(i)   Electrical Furnaces
12.      The  objective  of  this  program  is  to  improve  the  operating
efficiency of selected electrical furnaces through the development and
implementation  of  improvements  in  operating  procedures.    The program
includes diagnostics, technical studies, preparation of guidelines and
analysis of incentives in 75 electrical furnaces among 21 industries.
These targeted electrical furnaces account for about 658 MW or 70? of the
total demand of the 200 units existing in Brazil. Complete execution of
the program would take 24 months and cost about US$6 million. The program
is expected to increase by about 52 the operating efficiency of this
process, which is equivalent to generating additional energy at a cost of
US$5/MWH, substantially lower than the actual marginal cost of distribution
between 88KV and  138KV  (US$48/MWH).    As  shown  in  Table 1, savings in
electricity are estimated to be 202 GWH/year, equivalent to deferring the
installation of about 33 MW of additional generating capacity, which gives
an avoided cost  of  about  US$49  million.    In  addition, other indirect



- 117 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 5 of 8
benefits resulting from this program are: ti) its replicability in Brazil's
remaining electrical furnaces; (ii) reduction of other inputs such as
electrodes and refractories; and (iii) a demonstration effect to other
industries.
(ii) Public Lighting
13.      Brazil  has  about  770,000  public  lighting  points  which still
,0'operate with incandescent  bulbs.    The  objective  of  this program is to
increase public lighting efficiency through the replacement of 175W
incandescent bulbs with 80W fluorescent lamps and 5OW high pressure sodium
fluorescent  lamps  (HPS).      The   program  expects  to  replace  100,000
incandescent lamps in 1990 and 1991, and 120,000 in 1992 (852 with
fluorescent lamps and 152  with  HPS).    The  capital cost is estimated at
about US$7.7 million, while labor installaticn expenses are estimated at
about US$12.3 million.   Annual  maintenance  costs  are estimated at about
US$5.2 for incandescent lamps, US$1.3 for fluorescent, and US$2.5 for HPS.
Ballast losses are 12W in fluorescent and 8W in HPS. This program is
expected  to  save  about   103   GWH/year,  equivalent  to  deferring  the
installation of 27 MW of additional capacity, which gives an avoided cost
of US$40 million. As shown in Table 1, the resulting conservation cost is
US$26/MWH, substantially lower than the actual marginal cost associated
with the provision of this service (US$96/MWH).
(iii) Power Sector Buildings
14.      The objectives of  this  program  are:  (i)  to reduce electricity
consumption in buildings belonging to the power sector through the
modernization and improvement of lighting and air conditioning systems, and
(ii) to advertise the results as examples of energy conservation in
commercial type  structures.    The  program  has  a  cost  of about US$7.5
million, based on an estimated investment cost of about US$15/m2 and an
area of 500 thousands m2.   Buildings expecting to qualify for this program
will be required to demonstrate that they would be able to increase
efficiency in at least 202.    Savings  of  about 36 GWH/year are expected,
which are equivalent to deferring the installation of 10 MW of additional
capacity. These savings give an avoided cost of US$15 million and, as
shown in Table 1, a conservation cost of US$39/MWH. The actual marginal
cost of providing electrical service to this type of customers is about
US$96/RWH, considerably higher than the expected conservation cost.
(iv) Commercial Buildings
15.      The objective of  this  program  is  to  reduce the consumption of
electricity in commercial buildings.   The subproject includes diagnostics,
optimization  studies,  and  consultancies   on  the  construction  of  new
buildings. The program has an estimated cost of about US$1.6 million, and
is expected to produce recommendations that eventually would reduce
electricity consumption by 230 GWH/year after their implementation. This
is equivalent to deferring the installation of about 59 MW of additional
capacity.



- 118 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 6 of 8
(v) Public Building
16.      The objective of  this  program  is  to  reduce the consumption of
electricity in public buildings and advertise the results as examples of
energy conservation.    The  subproject  includes diagnostics, optimization
studies, and acquisition and installation of lighting and air conditioning
equipment. The program has an estimated cost of about US$0.5 million.
Buildings expecting to qualify for this program should demonstrate that
they have the potential for saving enough electricity, for the resulting
conservation cost to be below US$30/HWH, which is substantially lower than
the actual marginal cost of providing electrical service to this type of
customers (US$96/KWH).
(vi) Eauipment for Laboratories
17.      The objective  of  this  program  is  to  support  CEPEL and other
laboratories  engaged  in  energy  conservation  activities.    The program
inicludes the acquisition of equipment valued at US$5 millions. With these
equipment, these laboratories will be able to initiate 7 new projects.
(vii) Trainini and Education
18.      The objective of this  program  is  to support energy conservation
through a massive education program targeted to all educational levels.
Activities to be financed under this program includes publication of
190,000 booklets; 160,000 lectures; and 75 scholarships to undertake three
year post-graduate studies in the areas of architecture and engineering.
The program has an estimated cost of about US$1.7 million.
(viii) Energv Audits and Studies
19.      The  objective  of  this   program   is  to  optimize  electricity,
consumption in selected industries.   This  program has two components: (i)
addressed industries connected up to 69 RV and includes diagnostics and
development of technical studies in energy system optimization; and (ii)
addressed to industries connected above 69 KV (usually large electricity
consumers) and includes not only the acti7ities mentioned above but also
the possible participation of new consultant service firms in presiding
energy conservation advice to the private sector. The first component has
an estimated cost of about US$0.9 million, while the second one is
estimated to cost about US$0.8  million.   Once the program is implemented,
expected savings are estimated between 15Z and 35? of total electricity
consumption by these industries.
(ix) Industrial Demonstration
2u.      The objective of this program is to advertise the results obtained
with the optimization subprojects, inducing other industries to adapt the
benefits  obtained  from  these  subprojects.       The  program  would  help
industries with high potential for conservation, to finance the purchase of
adequate equipment subject to their commitment to allow the experience to



- 119 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 7 of 8
be monitored and used as example of energy conservation. This program is
scheduled to begin in 1991, once PROCEL had assimilated all experiences
resulting from the audit and optimization programs (para. 19). Its cost
has been estimated  at  about  US$1.5  million.    Its expected savings are
estimated at US$25/MWH, substantially lower than the actual marginal cost
of distribution to industrial customers above 69 KV (US$48/MWH and
USS45/MWH) and below 69 KW (USS51/HWH and US$64/MWH).
(z) Information
21.      The objective of this program is  to inform the public on the last
developments  regarding  conservation,  through   the  utilization  of  all
available  media  communication,   such   as  radio,  television,  posters,
seminars. The program has an estimated cost of about US$8 million.
C. Programs on Loss Reduction
22.      Installation  of  capacitor   banks  on  transmission/distribution
networks is a highly cost-efficient means of: (i) reducing power system
losses  (as  the  electricity  produced   at  the  utility  generating  and
distributing costs is not billed as this energy is dissipated through the
overloaded installations as a result of thermo-electric effects or it is
not accounted for because of the utility's billing and metering policy
inadequacies); and (ii) improving system power factor and voltage levels.
The installation of capacitor banks offers a convenient and practical means
of relieving power installattens (lines and source equipment such as
generators and transformers, of wattless current, i.e., reduces the lagging
component  of  the  circuit  current   by  increasing  the  reactive  power
component. The net benefit on the utility is the substantial reduction in
system facilities investment. The proposed EMP component within the PROCEL
program provides the installation of about 500 MVAR capacity of capacitor
(reactors) banks at an estimated cost of US$21 million. It is expected
that this component alone will displace the necessity of installing about
100 MW of generating capacity i.e., about 420 GWh/year (US$20,000,000).
This is also equivalent to reducing the beneficiaries' system losses by
about 3Z from 14,000 GWh to 13,580 GWh during 1990.
D. Proirams on Cogeneration
23.      Within the  context  of  the  electrical  power  sector in Brazil,
cogeneration offers a potential development resource. Actively discouraged
or prohibited within the current administrative legislative structure,
industrial   and   agro-industrial   cogeneration   facilities   may  offer
significant economies to the supply of electric energy. To date there have
been only a limited number of paper studies carried out which evaluate the
potential for cogeneration  in  specific  sectors.    One  of these studies
focuses  on  the  potential   for   cogeneration  using  bagasse  from  the
sugar/alcohol production processes as input to gasification and electrical
generation.



- 120 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 8 of 8
24.      There are a series  of  studies  and  a set of demonstrations that
need to be completed before a full scale cogeneration development effort
could be mounted  in  Brazil.    These  are  of  two  types.   The first is
engineering and institutional, the second engineering and physical. The
existing engineering and institutional issues hamper the integration of
cogeneration alternatives in the developments and operations of the power
sector. These issues are related to resource allocation and availability
of the resource relative to the strength and structure of the Brazilian
grid and to the relative location of the regional demand for electric
power. Other issue relates directly to the legal and/or administrative
requirements for interconnection of privately owned and operated generating
schemes with the integrated power system.   This requires definition of the
rules for interconnection and, even more specifically, the rules for
payment for generation. The engineering and physical issues relate to the
understanding of the adaptability of technologies used in the sugar/alcohol
production process. Specific technologies for cogeneration using residuals
such as bagasse are well known and are implemented to greater or lesser
extend in a number of sugar  producing  countries.    There is a new set of
technologies currently available which utilize gasification techniques with
highly  sophisticated  turbines.      While  proven,  they  require  further
evaluation in the Brazilian context.
25.      The proposed project would  include  a  program with the following
objectives: (i) to allow the Government, the power sector, and eventual
private investors to have more information and a better understanding of
the issues involved in a fully integrated cogeneration scheme; (ii) to
provide those economic agents with a methodological base for appraising
this program; and (iii) to gather enough elements for financing an eventual
cogeneration investment program. This program is estimated to cost about
US$1 million and includes the following activities: (i) an estimation of
how many of the 4,000 MW to 5,000 MW potentially available are feasible for
commercial development; (ii) an evaluation of how this potential may
increase as a result of an increase in the industrial activity; (iii) an
analysis of foreign experiences and of their applicability to Brazil; (iv)
an analysis of the feasibility of this development being carried out by the
same industries which have the potential; and (v) a study of the
institutional and legal implications of such an initiative.



- 121 -
41*3 S. 14
SmIL~~$.
ELECTRICI'l TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROJECT FILE
1. Braxl I-Aasaesa.nt of Current Macro-Economic Situation (Report 741041R)
2. Brazil-Energy Strategy and ICmuW Study (Draft Version)
In tltutlonoal
2. REVISE (draft verulon)
8. Performance Indicator*
Technical
4. Piano 201
5. Investment Program
6. Power Market
7. Energy Con ervatlon
S. PROCEL
0. Program SIRD/ELETROBRAS (Loan 2804-4R)-Supervision
Ii.Varlowe technical documants and papers
11.Economic Analisys Workaheta
Financial
12.Financial Statenonta and Audit Reports ( 1985-88 ) of
ELETROSRAS and other Boneficlarleo
18.ELETROURAS: *Compaerao Internacionol de Tarifa* de Energia
Eloterca 1978/1980'
14.ELETROORASt *8oletlo Taritario d Fornecimentog Dec.190
Othera
15.Computer Diskettets (Technical and Financial)



MAP SECTION



fAiCOlISN0 IWD 55  t 5o  CVVRIIN i-   BRD 21 96
FOEVRCIROOEVES  ' ^-ASCXVCI -J .'                                              50" iA aM  C NOVEL; TVCALN5k)       J5" 9    37                              A H IA
MATO 4eJ'^  CR0550                               go              oI   /                                                                                                                                    ik
,'  0DVVEALI RDV'8Q0                        '            O0* ALTl rocWAN'WA
NWE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
DMATRAVVARVRVE             5
': CiLcgtus      ,$.,,                                 r                       CoiUMbA  ' i       V                                      t}ANAUb            -                                                             R A z I tCORuoA F
am, ~~~~~~~~~~~I 5~-B                                                                               ~VLVVBRAZIL
ELECrRICITY TRANSMISSION AND
-                                                                                   Mq'VV' -'--"t,CUIMA)A1AS   c,n,  A'CLRVV  dCONSERVATION PROJECT
2,                                                                                                   SOUTH-SOUTHEASTr TRANSMISSION NETWORK
~~LV;~~~.  ft    0                                                                                     TrFnsVAissVonELines
I-                                                     -      ro.0          / |L                                .                             005li0001 DA AU,A
,..dh  °os m; < MINMAS
o   c   ff  *.             D O  *   , S tl L                        { .  | -iUA           CVDVO                            REVEL -iA    * VLDV A....                                                                        D.C. ±600 kV
8  (                           RJV VERVE                   VELIoNAFoV                          -----                                                                                                                  750 kV
CVRVV,A    NMATO          V MS                          E     VVV                                           VERAIS                                      NO* 0u0tVE
e~~~~~~~~~T    I                                                                                                                                      -..pYA CA ,-  500i kVudsre
25§  \        rc;!DCI   g i   r, #  .l KNffGt.,    t    YE LsOONIO ,{e,
rVVO ABRPLE 'ESETE                    -W VRLZAV,4`0DORVROAVAJVV                                                                                                              -  E440kT
'bDO_                                     _    ,
-20-  ~  ~     ~     LORA          011                      oV      RLE               l         ACVA                                                                                                                   345 kV
DI mo{LAR                                 A          KEIVAA
AN)XR.I                                     ARVISM                                                                                su                                                   .....       5.382kV
.r     @UAStA                                                                                                                                                                             State Capitals-  * rAaLIocO51 |1  it"D gG.  Se,,
ARGENTNAY AS----                                                                                                                                                                                                    RiveNr
PARAGUAY  00LPOIAOVRAD  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5tAOJ  EVO  *0   5VRY~~~~~~~~~~~~Lk                                                                               -  Rnervafrs~:eervir
-State Boundaries
00 \ iiiNAs D                                                                                                                                                               Internatianal Boundaries
0        0        I \     I FONLTEVEORA ,,  R-
,TA
FOZ00 1(3u                                                                                                 : -               ,                .,2,0                   ,r'
tMo       ~ -                  tCVVCL               I    V HROROARH
(~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                 VOUUA    JAWAtiOD CrAV                                                                                                                                 gij AAV6F0V
L   j   55   \,   sCiCADO                    4                                        0L;\RR                                                                                                  1it
kos noCRR    OAAUA,                                                                                                                                                                   tOt(IENZELASIsIl
URUGUAY                                                                                                                     -              KILOMETERS GU
LVVAVVKJ/Ro~o   o                                                                                                                                                                AIIIN
URUGUMANA*__±~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~~                                                                                                                                            B R A Zw'  IRAA  LWV  EA0eto'GOS0   f
-301    "K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00*                                                                           A0~*.O w,o.sflo.LonA 'pO' 
SAO JERNIMO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0000    sAnofl@000   R*
L                                                                                                                                          35'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ASGIIIIRMfl



IBRD 21997
50~~~~~~~~~~                                  40~~~~~~~~A'                                                   40'                                                             s               BRAZIL                                       30'
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
NORTH-NORTHEAST TRANSMISSION NETWORK
LUTINGA                    )
GUAMA WJ                                                                                                                                                                                   kV
DOtA 0O CONDE             )                                                                                                                                                  -          230 kV
138 kV
Sao Lis-                                                                                                                                   69 kV
D  V   sAo LUis 11 SAO LUIS Il                                                                                                                 Power PIs
/                   4/                       f/   *sAo LUIS                     G/° ,.1. LI                                                                                              Sstaetion
U   Thermal
IRANDA                                                                                                                                  usaon
TOLCURS                                                                                                              $  RtAL                     ®Foutolena                                             @      State Capitals
FORTALEZA                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
P0500Ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ~~~~~~Reservoir
PEO  R ITORO           PIRPR                                                                                            -        State Boundaries
CS- E Af@< \                                                                 \Te ,incX lMt-  | -   . - lnternotional Boundaries
tA5A  I                         I                               p      0               t    A                                        tA-                           ^I(  ^~~ 3kAIMRA  jD;
PARA                                                     --___________RIC     _        _ATSDL  NATAL0_ _______
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   AS R A   N   H                        0                                                                                             ACU      D"1ICk,
PARA                                                                                            NCO   DATALO 1
/              /                                       CA   /\JARDIM                                                  .7                                   A f Mop~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT
C _URRAJS                              ~ ~~~~~~GOVERNADOO
PIAUi                                                            PARAi        CAMINA 0C OLINDPe                                 JACARACAN GArAA
GRANDEUSUR
COTEGIPS
TA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PITUALCU
do Nu-.0                                                                                                                  MUL AON                                       LRG
SALVADOR AREA
A                |                                           /     B A  H  I A                      3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JGURR-Imtr     Mocei6                                         5 
10   VENEZUELAA'1
TO                A      T N                                                                                                      CIER DAN JESUSB DA  IA< o'KLvTR                                                        /< 7
JTARAIMN                                             1,                                 A-o  f Mop
S... O., I Sr do|iI
AHIA                                                                                                                                       I 4 f   /  410 FUNILo |  OVDEllia    -
0         100        200        300
I   I             ~~~~~I   I                              r
5OJE0J DA LAM                                            SlePAKLMTR
GOIAS                                                                                             .na o,nooo-                                                                                                    7
50'                                                         40'                                                           410. FUNIL                                                   30'                             /
ocm      1989



