Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL -.SE ONLY
Report No. 8457-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1990
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a reshicted distibudon and may be used by redpienls only In the pefomnance of
their officiml duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankutitin



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  3  Dalasi
US$1.0     D8.1  (March 1990)
Dl     =  US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I m   =  1.09 yd.
1 m2  -  10.76 sq. ft.
- km2 -  0.38 sq. ml.
1 ha  - 2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCNO          Advisory Committee for the Coordination of Non-Governmental
Organizations
ACU            Agricultural Communications Unit
AEU            Agricultural Engineering Unit
AfDB           African Development Bank
BAS            Business Advisory Service
BPMRU          Book Production and Material Resources Unit
CBD            Community Based Distribution
CDA            Community Development Assistant
CDO            Cammunity Development Officer
CHN            Community Health Nurse
CRS            Catholic Relief Services
CUSO           Canadian University Services Overseas
DAR            Department of Agricultural Research
DAS            Department of Agricultural Services
DCD            Department of Commuaity Development
DLS            Department of Livestock Services
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
FNU            Food and Nutrition Unit
FP             Family Planning
GCU            Gambia Cooperative Union
GFPA           Gambia Family Planning Association
GRD            Grassroots Development Fund
GTTI           Gambia Technical Training Institute
GWFC           Gambia Women' s Finance Company
HCA            Home Craft Assistant
HEP            Horticultural Extension Program
IBAS           Indigenous Business Advisory Service
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPPA           International Planned Parenthood Association
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LIB            Limited International Bidding
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MDI            Management Development Institute
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



MEPID          Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
HLGL           Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MHELSW         Ministry of Health, Environment, Labor and Social Welfare
MOE            Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOIT           Ministry of Information and Tourism
MRC            (British) Medical Research Council
NFE            Nonformal Education
RGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NHDP           National Health Development Program
NVTB           National Vocational Training Board
PCC            Project Coordinating Committee
PHC            Primary Health Care
PHS            Permanent Household Survey
PMU            Project Management Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SCF            Save the children Fund
SDA            Social Dimension of Adjustment
SEN            State Enrolled Nurse
SMAC           Safe Motherhood Component Advisory Committee
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
SSE            Small Scale Enterprise
SSHFC          Social Security and Housing Finance Company
TANGO          The Association of Non-Governmental Organizations
TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
TSA            Technical Sales Agent
T&V            Training and Visit
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNIFEM         United Nations Fund for Women
URD            Upper River Division
VDC            Village Development Committee
VEW            Village Extension Worker
VHP            Village-level Health Post
VUW            Village Health Worker
VSO            Volunteer Service Overseas
WID            Women in Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                 .......................................  i-iv
1.     INTRODUCTION ............            ...................................    1
II.    BACKGROUND .         ................................................    1
A.   Socio-Economic Setting ................................    1
B.   The Role of Women in Gambian Society:  Issues and
Cons.-aints ..................................   2
C.   Institutions ..........            ................................    7
D.   The Government's Strategy .............................  12
E.   The Bank Group's Role .................................  13
III.   THE PROJECT .         ................................................  16
A.   Project Origin         ...................     .....................  16
B.  Project Objectives .................               ...................  16
C.  Summary of Project Composition ......... ..               .............  16
D.   Project Description ................8...................  l
1.  Agriculture  .....................................  18
2.  Skills Development  ..............................  22
3.  Safe Motherhood and Family Planning ....               .........  23
4.  Information, Education, Communication (IE(,) .....  25
S.   Strengthening of the Women's Bureau ....              .........  28
6.  The Fund .........            ...............................  30
E.   Project Management Unit (PMU)  ... ....................  30
F.  Project Costs and Financing    ............ ..............  31
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . ....................................  31
A.  Status of Project Preparation and Readiness .31
B.  Project Coordination and Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation .33
C. Implementation of the Project Components .37
D. Environmental Impact .39
E. Specialist Services .40
F. Procurement .40
G. Disbursements .43
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .44
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .44
A. Benefits .44
B. Risks.                                                                  45
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......                ................  45
This report 1s based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited The Gambla In October/November 1989.
The mission embers were Uessrs./Mmes. B. Abe 116 (architect/implementatlon speciallst), K. Awunyo (lawyer), E.
Brown (demographer), C. Cauthier (training specialist), P. Cell (UNDP consultant, mission leader , D. Jones
(agricultural econotmist), D. Puetz (agricultural economist, consultant), ard B. Vitagliano (project officer).
The following representatives of cofinenclers worked closely with the Bank appralsal mlssion: D. Castleton
(AfID), S. Chaturvedil-Hyn (ILO/AfDB), R. Cresman (AfOB team leader), S. Doherty (AfID), M. f%rleser (UNIFEM),
and B. Ingitad (Norwegian Government). This report was edited by Ms. Phyllis Roos and process A by Ms. Sylvie
Ciroux.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1 1988 Social Indicator Data Sheet
1-2 Documents in the Project File
2-1 The Role of Women in Gambian Society
3-1 Agricultural Component
3-2 Skills Development Component
3-3 Safe Motherhood and Family Planning Component
3-4 Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Component
3-5 Component for Strengthening of the Women's Bureau
3-6 The Fund Component
3-7  Project Costs and Financing Plan
3-8 Detailed Project Costs by Year and Sub-component (in Dalasis
thousand)
4-1 Timetable of Activities
4-2 Disbursement Schedule
4-3  Supervision Plan
MAP: IBRD 22203



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiaries:       The President's Office (Women's Bureau) and Ministries
of Agriculture; Local Government and Lands; Education,
Youth, Sports and Ctlture; Health, Environment, Labor
and Social Welfare; and Information and Tourism
Credit Amount:       SDR 5.4 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Project              The project aims to: (a) improve women's productivity
Obiectives:          and income-earning potential; (b) improve uomen's
welfare and status; (c) strengthen government
institutions to enable them to better deal with
women's issues; and (d) contribute to bringing about a
change in Gambian society's perception of the role of
women.
Project              The project comprises the following six components:
Description:
(a) Increasing women's agricultural productivity and
disposable income and improving the nutritional level
of women and children through: the strengthening of
agricultural extension services to better serve women;
private sector input distribution; support for women's
cooperative groups; strengthening of food storage,
preservation and nutrition extension; improved
management of small-scale post-harvest equipment; and
a savings mobilization campaign directed at women.
(b)  Improving the skills of rural women end promoting
viable and marketable skills, organizing and
strengthening women's groups in rural areas for small
business and income- generating activities, and
promoting basic literacy and numeracy skills through
training activities related to women's social and
economic needs.
(c)  Promoting safe motherhood and strengthening family
planning services through: training of village-level
health workers and traditional birth attendants in
early identification and management of high-risk
pregnancies; development of an *alarm" and transport



- ii -
system at the community level to handle medical
emergencies in time; a nutrition education and micro-
nutrient supplementation program; and expansion of the
community-based contraceptive distribution system.
(d)  Developing an information, education and communication
(IEC) strategy, with emphasis on specific needs and
concerns of women, and reinforcing ongoing educational
and motivational campaigns on agriculture, health,
family planning, and nutrition.
(e)  Strengthening the capacity of the Women's Bureau for
policy and program formulation, advice, awareness
creation, and monitoring and evaluation of the impact
of women's development programs through technical
assistance, training, and support for studies.
(f)  Establishing a Fund to be used by NGOs, on a matching
fund basis, for small projects and programs designed
to help women and children.
ProJect        Women all over The Gambia, particularly those living in
Benefits:      rural areas, would benefit from the institutional
strengthening of organizations dealing directly with
women's issues (i.e., the Women's Bureau, the Ministries of
Agriculture, Education, Health, and Local Government). The
project would help improve these institutions'
responsiveness to women's needs and create a greater
awareness about women's development issues among policy-
makers; this, In turn, would contribute to better sectoral
project design in the long term. The project coordination
efforts would improve inter-agency cooperation and
harmonization of existing women's programs. A number of
project activities would be targeted to women in 200
selected villages, with a population of direct
beneficiaries estimated at 50,000. Rural women nationwide
are expected to benefit from the improved extension
services and the private farm input distribution network.
Equally, the family planning program would benefit both
rural and urban women. The entire community, in particular
children, would benefit from women's improved health and
education. Over the long term, women's enhanced role in
the country's development effort would contribute to better
overall economic performance and to poverty reduction.
Proiect        The risks involve primarily (a) the difficulties in
Risks:         changing society's perception of the role of women and the
attitudes of civil servants dealing with women's issues;
(b) IDA's and the Government's lack of experience in



- iii -
preparing and implementing a project of this nature; and
(c) the difficulty of implementing a project with a multi-
sectoral approach. Nevertheless, the Government's strong
commitment to implementing a WID project, the large-scale
involvement of local professionals in project preparation,
and the planned full-scale IEC campaign included In the
project design are expected to provide a favorable climate
for successful implementation. By involving experienced
NGOs, together with technical assistance, the risk of
unsatisfactory implementation would be reduced.



- iv -
Summary of Proi(siA Costs and Financing
(net of taxes and duties)
Estimated Protect Costs 11                           Local  Foreign  Total
-----(US$ million)---
1.  Agriculture                                      0.8       2.4    3.2
2.  Skills Development                               1.3       1.5    2.8
3.  Safe Motherhood and Family Planning              0.6       0.6    1.2
4.  IEC                                              0.2       1.9    2.1
5.  Strengthening of the Women's Bureau              0.7       0.5    1.2
6.  The Fund                                         0.2       0.3    0.5
7.  Project Management Unit                          0.1       0.2    0.3
8.  Refinancing of PPF                                0.5      0.7    1.2
Total Base Costs                                 4.5       8.0   12.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.3       0.4    0.7
Price Contingencies                              1.1       0.8    1.9
total Proiect Costs                              5.9       9.2   15.1
Financing Plan                                      Local   Forei&g   Total
-- (US$million)-----
IDA                                              1.6       5.4    7.0
Xingdom of Norway                                0.9       0.7    1.6
AfDB                                             1.8       1.7    3.5
UNIFEM                                           0.6       0.1    0.7
UNDP                                             0.4       1.0    1.4
UNFPA                                            0.0       0.1    0.1
Government                                       0.6       0.2    0.8
Total                                            5.9       9.2   15.1
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated Credit Disbursements
-----------IDA Fiscal Year--------
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996
-----(US$ million)-----
Annual                                   2.1   1.9   1.1   0.9   0.5  0.5
Cumulative                               2.1   4.0   5.1   6.0   6.5  7.0
Economic Rate of Returns                 Not applicable



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.31     The Government of The Gambia has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project desig,ned to improve women's productivity, income-
earning potential, welfare, and status. The proposed project also aims to
bring about a change in society's perception of the role of women and to
strengthen government institutions to enable them to better deal with
women's issues.
1.02     Total project costs are estimat.,d at US$15.1 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), with a foreig.n exchange component of
US$9.2 million. The Government would contribute US$0.8 million. The
African Development Fund, Norway, UNDP, UNIFEM and UNFPA together would
provide US$7.3 million; the remaining US$7.0 million would be financed by
IDA.
1.03     The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first free-
standing women in development (WID) project. The 1988 social indicator
data sbeet is at Annex 1-1.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Socio-Economic Setting
2.01     The Gambia, with a population estimated at 800,000 and a per
capita income of US$220, is one of the poorest countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Situated on the edge of the Sahel, it suffers from recurrent
droughts and untimely distribution of rainfall. About two-thirds of the
population live in rural areas, deriving their livelihood from subsistence
farming, livestock, and the cultivation of groundnuts for export. The
country is highly dependent on trade, importing about one-third of its food
requirements, all of its fuel and capital goods, and most other
manufactured goods. Re-export trade to neighboring countries, encouraged by
an open trade policy, provides over 50Z of foreign exchange earnings.
Groundnuts account for almost 90? of domestic exports and represent 38Z of
export value. The Gambia's low level of agricultural diversification makes
it vulnerable to fluctuations in groundnut revenues, due to such factors as
adverse weather conditions or declining world market prices. Hence the
country's lonig-term development potential will rely upon diversification of
the productive base within agriculture -- mainly into horticultural and
livestock products -- as well as divercification into resource-based
manufacturing, fisheries, and tourism.
2.02     A severe economic and financial crisis in the latter part of the
1970s, resulting from a dramatic expansion of public expenditures,
inappropriate exchange rate and other pricing policies, and adverse
external factors, prompted the Government in 1985 to introduce a
comprehensive economic reform program, which received the support of the
Bank and other multilateral and bilateral donors. The program stresses the
role of the private sector in the economy, focusirng the public sector more
narrowly on activities ir support of private sector development. Positive



effects of this program are becoming evident in the country's improved
macroeconomic performance. The Government has also begun the task of civil
service reform, a selective divestiture of parastatals, institutional
strengthening in critical areas, and reduction of some public services. The
improved policy and institutional environment has led to a -rge in private
sector activities and has helped to lay the foundation for sustained
medium-term growth and diversification of the economy.
2.03     A major constraint to developing the long-term productive
potential of the economy and improving the welfare of the Gambian
population is the country's low level cf human resources development,
reflected in literacy rates of 152 for women and 362 for men and an
estimated 57? primary school enrollment rate for school-age children. This
low level of human resources development W..ontributes to very high infant.
child and maternal mortality rates and to a high incidence of infectious
diseases. The Government recognizes this and despite its recent budgetary
constraints has made an effort to protect basic social services; with donor
assistance, it is expanding and improving the quality of education and
hetlth services in both urban and rural areas. In addition, the Government
has taken other steps to mitigate the effects of adjustment on the most
vulnerable groups, and provides job counselling, retraining and credit for
the retrenched workers. However, a lack of data and analytical
capabilities makes it difficult to monitor the social impact of the
Economic Reform Program. To overcome this deficiency, the Government has
requested African Development Bank/UNDP/IDA assistance in establishing a
nationwide living standard survey in the context of a regional Social
Dimension of Adjustment (SDA) program.
2.04     In focusing its strategy on developing the country's human
resources, the Government is becoming increasingly aware of women's
development issues as it recognizes the significant contribution that women
make to the economy. A growing concern about the pressures that rapid
population growth places on scarce national resources has also prompted the
Government to give greater attention to the relationship between birth
rates and the education of women and to women's participation in the market
economy.
B.     The Role of Women in Gambian Society: Issues and Constraints
2.05     Women in The Gambia contribute substantially to the economy and to
the well-being of their families, yet they face many constraints that
reduce the efficiency and productivity of their work. The major
constraints are outlined below and discussed in det&il in Annex 2-1.
(a) Limited access to productive resources, particularly good land,
credit and other agricultural inputs such as fertilizer and farm
equipment;
(b) Relatively lower levels of educational attainment and more limited
training opportunities than their male counterparts;
(c) The heavy burden of high fertility. exacerbated by poor maternal
health and nutritional status;



- 3 -
(d) Prevailing attitudes of society concerning women's abilities and
socio-economic role, which reduce their status and mobility; and
(e) Women's perception of themselves, combined with a lack of
knowledge concerning both their rights and the resources
potentially available to them.
1.  Agriculture
2.06     Women play a prominent role in the Gambian farming system,
providing between 30X and 50? of the total agricultural labor, depending on
village location. The farming system is characterized by a diverse
division of responsibilities and resources within the extended, polygamous
households (often referred to as compounds), which average 15 family
members. Gender-specific responsibilities vary according to village
location, ethnicity, and the level of farm mechanization. Farming
activities are generally more separated in lowland villages, where mutual
assistance between men and women is less common and where women spend more
time on farming than do those in upland villages. In upland farming there
is a considerable amount of labor exchange, with men often helping women
with the heavier tasks such as land clearing and when animal traction is
used for ploughing, planting and weeding. Women, in turn, provide most of
the labor for harvesting and are responsible for post-harvest processing of
cereals, one of the most time-consuming and arduous tasks of rural women.
Both men and women produce food for household consumption (maruo crops),
which is usually done collectively; both also grow crops for their personal
use (kamanyango crops), a large proportion of which is sold, with the
proceeds used for a wide range of purposes (Annex 2-1, para 5). More than
half of the women of working age cultivate their own kamanyango fields.
Women are practically the sole producers of swamp and tidal rice,
horticultural crops, and sesame, and they also own and manage a large
proportion of the country's sheep, goat and poultry stock.
2.07     Access to Productive resources.  Despite the large role they play
in agricultural production, Gambian women farmers have only limited access
to the resources they need to increase their productivity and improve their
income-earning capabilities. Seldom can they count on the timely
availability of fertilizer, improved seed or 'arm implements. Men usually
have priority access to these inputs through tne cooperative system, which
is the major distributor of agricultural inputs and the only source of
institutionalized farm credit in rural Gambia. Of the 110,000 members of
the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU), less than 102 are women. GCU also
provides loans for agricultural implements. The limited access of women to
these loans greatly restricts their capacity to benefit from farm
mechanization, which is a key factor in improving agricultural productivity
in The Gambia. Since they are virtually excluded from the formal credit
system, most rural women borrow and save through the informal sector; for
example, they may do this through a rotating fund (osusu) in which members
of local women's groups pool their money and distribute it according to
need. With limited resources and normal'y used by one member at a time,
this fund cannot meet all of its members' needs at the same time, such as
for buying farm inputs at the start of the planting season.
2.08     Retaining good land for cultivating their crops is yet another
problem that women face. Although their right to land is recognized, they



- 4 -
often are kept from exercising this right because traditional law favors
compound and village ward rights to land over individual rights. As the
assignment of land to individuals is usually the prerogative of the male
compound head -- ihe village elders, women may be left with poor quality
land or even be driven off their traditionally held fields. A further
constraint faced by women farmers is limited access to information on new
and improved production technologies; this is due to the extension services
and agricultural research orienting their work mainly towards predominantly
male-produced cash and export crops. Through the Training and Visit (T&V)
system which is being adapted to the extension program under the Second
Agricaltural Development Project (Cr. 1476-GM), women could have better
access to information that would help them improve their farming methods.
However, of the 4,100 'contact farmersl already in the T&V system, so far
only 4-52 are women, because the criteria for selecting these farmers
include literacy and only a minimal number of rural women are literate.
2.09     Recent studies in The Gambia have shown that women's agricultural
productivity is generally 35Z less than that of men.  While the heavy
domestic workload they carry, as well as frequent pregnancies, are
contributing factors, there should be little doubt that the main reason for
this productivity gap is that t1 y do not have equal access to the inputs
needed to match their productivity with that of men: new and improved
production technologies, good land, farm implements, credit, seed and
fertilizer. That they can do so when provided with these inputs has been
demonstrated in the IFAD-assisted Jahally-Pacharr Rice Project (Annex 2-1,
para 10). But that project has also shown that when an agricultural
improvement program is designed to help women, it should take into account
intra-household relationships. Despite the planners' efforts to give women
access to new rice technologies and thus improve their disposable income,
most ended up with the lower yielding technologies and the highest
yielding, irrigated rice technology was to a large extent taken over by
men.
2.   Education and Training
2.10     Women continue to have limited access to education and training
opportunities in The Gambia, despite the expansion of the education system
and increase in primary school enrollments over the past two decades.
Disparities in access to formal education are evident in the primary school
enrollment rates: in 1988 the national enrollment rate was about 68? for
boys and only 46? for girls. Boys outnumber girls nearly 3 to 1 in the
secondary high schools and 2 to 1 in the secondary technical schools (The
Gambia has no university). There are also regional disparities in
schooling, with urban areas having a larger female participation than rural
areas; in the Banjul area, for example, only 168 girls per thousand are out
of school, whereas in the Upper River Division as many as 860 per thousand
are out of school. Gender disparities in educational opportunities have
increased over the past few years in the face of severe budgetary
constraints that have led to a shortage of teachers and school places
available for an ever-increasing number of school-age children. The
limited number of places, along with negative teacher attitudes concerning
female scholastic ability and potential, works against the enrollment of
girls and in favor of boys. Even when girls are enrolled, several factors
operate against successful completion and achievement; these include
competing demands on their time, early marriage and pregnancy, a lack of
positive role models, negative parental and community attitudes toward the



- 5 -
Western-type of education for girls, and the poor quality and lack of
relevance of education to the expected vocation of women. An additional
factor in low female educational attainment in The Gambia is the late age
of school entry (age 8), which gives girls only a few years of schooling
and little chance to complete it before they reach puberty.
2.11     As part of the overall effort to improve the status of women and
promote their full participation in the economy, a study was made by an
inter-ministerial task force to identify the underlying causes of female
under-representation in the educational system and recommend remedial
actions to be implemented over the long term. The proposed The Gambia
Education Sector Project, being processed in parallel with this operation,
would include some of the measures recommended in the study, such as
lowering the primary school entry age to 7 and later on to age 6; revising
curricula and textbooks to promote a more positive image of women's role in
society; giving priority to the training of female teachers; actively
encouragiag g'rls to enroll in more traditionally male-dominated classes,
such as s-ience and mathematics; and integrating family life education
programs into school curricula.
2.12     Nonformal education.  As an alternative to formal schooling, which
the large majority of Gambian women either have not attended or were unable
to complete, nonformal education programs could help them to acquire basic
skills in areas of vital impcrtance in improving their lives: literacy,
preventive health caxre, sanitation, and family planning. Training in
skills to improve w.amen's work productivity, such as in agriculture and
marketing, could also be offered. Governmental and non-governmental
agencies already providing training in numeracy/literacy and other skills
(e.g., vegetable gardening, seed multiplication, tie-and-dye, soap-making,
accounting and record keeping) include the Department of Nonformal
Education (NFE) of the Ministry of Education, which introduced a functional
literacy/numeracy program in 1982; the Department of Community Development
(DCD) of the Ministry of Local Government and Lands, which has the largest
number of skill training programs offered by government; and Action Aid,
the most active NGO in the nonformal education sector and accounting for
nearly half of the programs offered. Though not specifically designed for
women, the training programs place special emphasis on upgrading women's
skills. The number of participants is rather small (about 23,000,
according to a recent survey, representing about 102 of the adult rural
population), and women far outnumber men, thus demonstrating their desire
and need for training. Women attending the programs are in the 20-30 age
group, and competing household and child care responsibilities make their
attendance less regular than that of men.
3.   Female Entrepreneurship
2.13     Women are very active in the informal sector, comprising the
majority of the self-employed workers. In the urban areas, they are
engaged in such enterprises as retail marketing of fresh produce, small
restaurant services, textile dying, tailoring for both the domestic and
tourist market, tile manufacturing, and road transport. In the rural areas
their activities are limited to crafts production and the marketing of
surplus vegetables and fruit. Informal surveys have shown that there is
considerable scope for increasing income from these enterprises by
improving the product or service, exploiting economies of scale, and
introducing better business management practices. There is also a



- 6 -
potentia. for women entrepreneurs to branch out into new enterprises, such
as fish processing, large-scale horticultural production and marketing, and
food processing and preservation.
2.14     While all Gambians engaged in small-scale enterprises (SSEs) have
to cope with many problems in conducting their activities -- the main ones
involve finances, markets, and availability of raw materials -- for womerL
these common problems often become actual barriers because of society's
negative attitude concerning women's abilities, greater difficulty in
obtaining credit, and lack of training and business experience. Most of the
institutional lending in The Gambia is for financing wholesale and retail
trade business and groundnut marketing, in which few women are involved.
Though some women entrepreneurs have received commercial loans and they
have a better repayment record than mer. very few women participate in the
formal financial system, either as borrowers or savers. Small credit
schemes for urban enterprises operated by women have been provided by the
Cooperative Thrift and Credit Society and the Indigenous Business Advisory
Service (IBAS), set up under the Ministry of Planning and Industrial
Development. Both of these institutions, however, face severe financial
problems, due mainly to poor management, and therefore cannot be considered
as sources of lending under the proposed WID project.
4.   Health and Nutrition Status
2.15     The health status of women in The Gambia is among the poorest in
the world. The maternal mortality rate of 10 per 1,000 live births is more
than twice the average rate (4.5) for developing countries, and in some of
the country's rural areas maternal mortality is as high as 20-22 per 1,000
live births. There is also a high incidence of malnutrition among women
and children. The poor health of women has profound implications for the
welfare of the country's children: the infant and under five mortality
rates (143 and 242, respectively, per 1,000 births) are among the highest
in Sub-Saharan Africa. Post-partum hemorrhage and infections are the
leading causes of maternal mortality.  Infant and child mortality is cause4
mainly by malaria, diarrhea, and respiratory tract infections.
Malnutrition has a compounding effect on mortality and morbidity,
especially among children and pregnant women. The main factors influencing
the high maternal mortality rate are the lack of an effective early warning
system for high-risk pregnancies, inadequate access to antenatal care,
unavailability of transport in an emergency, and a first-referral level not
adequately equipped to deal with high-risk cases.
2.16     Improvement in the health care system is expected under the
National Health Development Program, launched in 1987 with the support of
IDA and other international donors, including the Italian, British and
Dutch Governments. The program focuses on (a) expanding the referral
levels, from health centers to hospitals; (b) training community health
nurses (CHNs) and state-enrolled nurses (SENs); (c) improving
communications; (d) setting up an efficient logistical system; and (e)
introducing important reforms to strengthen health sector management and
financing. The program is helping to extend primary health care (PHC) to
the Greater Banjul area, and is introducing cost recovery for drugs and
health services to promote more efficient use of health facilities and
shift some of the cost of improved services to the beneficiaries.



-7-
2.17     Malnutrition is widespread, the most severely affected groups
being pregnant and lactating mothers and children between the ages of 9 and
36 months. There are both regional and seasonal variations in the
incidence of malnutrition, with rural areas more affected than urban areas.
In rural communities during the rainy season, referred to as the 'hungry
season" because less food is available, the caloric intake is only 1,660
calories per person per day, compared with 2,140 during the post-harvest
season. The effect of this caloric shortfall is exacerbated by the heavy
workload borne by all active members of the community, including pregnant
and lactating women.
2.18     A high fertility rate (6.5 live births per woman) is yet another
factor that weakens maternal health and a woman's ability to provide for
her children. Reflecting its concern about the rapid growth of the
population, the Government has made public pronouncements on the need to
reduce the growth rate and is fully supportive of the family planning
programs that have been underway in The Gambia for several years
(Annex 3-3, para 30). While these programs have met with some success,
they face a number of constraints that impede the effort to gain wider
acceptance of the services they provide and better understanding of the
health benefits of birth spacing. These constraints include the generally
low literacy level of the population, particularly women; a bias toward
having large families; and many misconceptions about family planning shared
by men and women alike. The Government's efforts to increase awareness of
the importance of family planning in relation to development and to
improving the condition of women, especially those in rural communities,
needs to be followed up by a well-coordinated action program that includes
quantitative targets for the FP programs.
C. Institutions
2.19     The President's Office has overall responsibility for women's
issues. In 1980 the President established the Women's Council and the
Women's Bureau to advise on women's issues and to promote programs that
benefit women. Women's programs are being implemented by a number of
ministries and Governmental agencies. NGOs also address specific women-
related issues, but their activities are scattered and uncoordinated.
2.20     National Women's Council and Women's Bureau.  The National Women's
Council Act of 1980 established the National Women's Council as an advisory
body to the Government. The Council consists of 27 members, including the
Chairwoman and the Executive Secretary of the Women's Bureau (an ex-
officio member), appointed by the Minister for Women's Affairs (the
President) and representing the country's five Divisions, Greater Banjul
and the Kombos. The Act also established the Women's Bureau, under the
Office of the President, to administer the Council's affairs. The main
function of the Council and the Bureau is to advise the Government on all
matters affecting the development and welfare of women, with particular
reference to: (a) their education and training; (b) appropriate measures
that should be taken to mobilize and integrate women into the development
process as equal partners; (c) areas where women's participation should be
encouraged and strengthened; (d) steps that should be taken to correct the
adverse effects of traditional beliefs, customs and practices on the
advancement of women; (e) dissemination of information necessary to help
promote the advancement and well-being of women; and (f) establishment of



programs to permit continuous review and evaluation of the economic and
social progress achieved by women.
2.21     In addition to advising the government on issues of concern to
women and to promoting women's interests and their integration into
national, regional and sectoral planning, the Women's Bureau has
implemented and supervised a number of projects, funded mainly by external
donors, designed to enhance the general welfare of women. In those
projects and in the workshops and seminars conducted by the Bureau,
emphasis has been on easing women's workload through the provision of
labor-saving devices; improving health conditions; increasing educational
opportunities and helping women acquire income-generating skills; and
providing them with small credit facilities. The Bureau has also conducted
research on the needs and problems of Gambian women; the topics include
training needs, women engaged in small-scale enterprises, the effects of
female circumcision, the land tenure system and how it affects women, and
the participation of women in the fishing industry. Effective
administration of these activities has been constrained by a skeletal and
inexperienced staff, despite the role played by the five specialized
committees set up by the Council and the Bureau to look into specific areas
related to women's development needs (agriculture and small-scale
industries, health, education and training, and legal status). The lack of
staff has also hampered the Bureau's ability to mediate and coordinate the
interests of women as expressed in the activities of other ministries.
Since 1988, with the assistance of the United Nations Fund for Women
(UNIFEM) the Women's Bureau has been able to expand its staff and
strengthen its operations. Strengthening of its data collection
capabilities is also planned under the Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA)
project. The Bureau's staff presently consists of an executive secretary,
a deputy executive secretary, a public relations officer, two planners, a
researcher, an editor, 11 field officers, and a United Nations volunteer.
2.2k     Ministry of Agriculture.   So far, most of this Ministry's
programs have not taken into consideration in their design the
contributions of women in the various agricultural activities. Until
recently, extension messages were not reaching the majority of women
farmers, because they were geared mainly to the promotion of male-
dominated crops. Nor have the minuscule number of female extension workers
(less than 57) been able to effectively reach women farmers. This situation
has improved with the Ministry's involvement in the preparation of the
proposed WID project; a deliberate effort is being made to address women's
development issues in the training program for extension workers, currently
being implemented under the Second Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 1476-GM). Cultural factors do not appear to prevent male extension
agents from working with female farmers. The embryonic Food and Nutrition
Unit (FNU), established in 1986 in the Ministry of Agriculture, is the only
part of the Ministry that has a recognized brief to work specifically with
women. Of FNU's six staff members, only one has had degree-level training.
The Unit's tasks include: improving traditional storage of foodgrains;
testing and advising on new small-scale technologies for post-harvest
processing, vegetable processing and storage; and developing recipes and
ways to improve the variety and nutritional quality of food prepared and
consumed by households. FNU is short of operating funds that would enable
it to operate in the field, and has no facilities with which to prepare
demonstrations or to test improved practices. Also, cooperation between



- 9 -
FRU and the Nutrition Unit in the Ministry of Health is currently very
limited and needs to be improved.
2.23     Ministry of Health, Environment, Labor and Social Welfare.  This
Ministry provides maternal and child health care (MCH) through a primary
health care system that includes 16 health centers and 316 village health
posts staffed with a Village Health Worker (VHW) and a Traditional Birth
Attendant (TBA). In adO'tion, mobile trekking teams link the health centers
with more than 100 vilL.,_es. Most rural health facilities are in poor
condition, and the transport system to take emergency cases to either the
health centers or the country's two hospitals is inadequate. The ongoing
Health Development Project (Cr. 1760-GM) will go a long way toward
improving this situation. Under that project, the existing referral system
is being improved through the rehabilitation and upgrading of the bulk of
the health centers and existing buildings at the two national hospitals.
2.24     Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture.   This Ministry
is responsible for formal education at the primary, secondary and post-
secondary levels. Post-secondary education is offered principally at the
Gambia College and the Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI). The
Gambia College has four schools: teacher training, agriculture, nursing and
mid-wifery, and public health. Formal vocational training is the
responsibility of the National Vocational Training Board (NVTB), which is
also under the Ministry of Education. GTTI offers technician and crafts
courses leading to a commercial and industrial certificate. In addition,
the Institute develops tailor made training programs as required by private
industry and governmental agencies. Also under NHTB is the National Rural
Vocational Training Center at Mansakongo, with a mandate to train
instructors for the training and upgrading of rural craftsmen in basic
trades. Thus far, only a small number of women have participated in the
center's training programs.
2.25     Ministry of Local Government and Lands.  This Ministry's
Department of Community Development (DCD) offers training programs for
village women, including literacy and numeracy training. The DCD has eight
specialized units,including a Research, Planning and Monitoring Unit, a
Training Unit, and a Women's Programs Unit. DCD's various activities are
being implemented by 100 rural-based Community Development Assistants
(CDAs), whose role is to act as catalysts of development and facilitate the
establishment of village self-help organizations. The women's Programs
Unit has 17 Homecraft Assistants, who provide training in home management
and crafts skills to village women. DCD has extensive operational
experience and plays a key role in coordinating the work of different
agencies and in mobilizing participants in development programs.
2.26     Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development. The
Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS), established under this
Ministry in 1983, offers training courses for small rural and urban
entrepreneurs on business concepts (e.g., record-keeping, planning and
marketing). IBAS also administers a loan scheme which so far has not faired
well due to low repayment rates and poor supervision on the part of its
staff. Women constitute about 252 of IBAS' clients; they are mostly small
urban entrepreneurs engaged in activities such as petty trading, tie-and-
dye. and the operation of small retail shops. The organization's limited
staffing and rural outreach (IBAS has only four branches outside Banjul)
hamper its efforts to integrate more women into its programs.



- 10 -
2.27     Financial institutions.  In addition to the Central Bank, The
Gambia's financial sector comprises a housing finance company (Social
Security and Housing Finance Company -- SSHFC) and three commercial banks:
Standard Bank, a subsidiary of Standard Chartered of London, with minority
(252) local ownership; Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et
l'Industrie, a branch of Senegal's BICIS; and the Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank, which is fully Government owned. All the commercial
banks provide credit to practically all sectors (agriculture, tourism,
manufacturing, construction), and there are no legal barriers to women's
access to credit. However, the commercial banks have traditionally
advanced less than 5X of their credit to women, and despite recent efforts,
including an attempt by the Gambia Women's Finance Company (GWFC) to
provide partial guarantees for women borrowers, access of women to
institutional credit will be limited for some time. This is due to a
variety of reasons. First, the banks have, for reasons of prudency,
concentrated on short-term commercial credit to medium and large private
businesses. Second, the oligopolistic nature of Gambian banking assures
the banks of significant earnings from Government Treasury bills, thus
reducing their need to compete for a client base. Third, the geographic
concentration of the banks, with most branches in the Banjul area, makes it
difficult for rural women to gain access to them.
2.28     Public information sector institutions.  Responsibility for the
public information sector lies with the Ministry of Information and
Tourism. The sector is very small, with no daily newspapers or television
broadcasting stations. There are two radio stations: one is private,
broadcasting mainly music, headline news and advertisements; the other,
Radio Gambia, is state owned. Radio Gambia transmits in local languages
magazine programs with a development content, particularly in programs for
rural areas, on tcpics relating to self-reliance, health, family planning,
agriculture, forestry, and fisheries. The programs are broadcast in the
country's four main languages. A recent media survey revealed that radio
is the most accessible source of information in The Gambia for both men and
women, and is also considered to be the most reliabl. A number of
ministries (Agriculture, Health, Education, and Information) have their own
communications units and undertake information, education and communication
(IEC) activities.
2.29     Non-governmental organizations.  Many NGOs are active in The
Gambia. Their exact lumber is not known because not all are registered
with the Ministry of Justice, as required by law. A recent survey of NGOs
lists over 100 of varying size, both indigenous and international.
Registered NGOs have formed an inter-NGO entity, The Association of Non-
Governmental Organizations (TANGO). Coordination of governmental and NGO
activities is the responsibility of the Advisory Committee for the
Coordination of Non-Governmental Organizations (ACCNO). NGOs, particularly
those that have been operating in the country for some time, have made
significant contributions to The Gambia's development efforts not only by
complementing the government services, but also by playing an innovative
and demonstration role; NGOs such as Catholic Relief Services (CRS), Action
Aid, and Save the Children Fund (SCF) have introduced new farming crops and
provided wells and infrastructure. In the health sector, NGOs work at the
village level to expand the capacity of health programs (particularly MCI
care) to reach the rural poor. NGOs are involving villagers as volunteer
representatives in their programs. For example The Gambia Family Planning



- 11 -
Association (GFPA), an offshoot of the International Planned Parenthood
Association (IPPA), uses village volunteers, usually (TBAs), to expand its
capacity to deliver contraceptives and disseminate family planning
information. SCF (US) has developed village health teams to work with SCF
health recorders. CRS has formed MCH management committees to act as
liaison between CRS and the community. In education, NGOs also play an
important role. Action Aid, Caritas, the Christian Children's Fund, and
SCF (US) have participated in the construction of primary schools and
provided teaching equipment and supplies. Action Aid has also been
successfully experimenting with village group lending.
2.30     At a time when the Government is attempting to make further
reductions in the civil service, the role of the NG0s becomes particularly
important in providing much-needed services, especially in sectors where
the Government's outreach is limited. NGOs have been particularly
successful in reaching women and in developing programs specifically
designed for them (e.g., cultivation of village gardens, bee-keeping,
smoking and drying of fish, and weaving), and ensuring that their staff are
aware of the need to include women in their programs. As the contributions
that NGOs are making in all of the country's development efforts are
becoming increasingly important, their programs need to be better
coordinated to ensure maximum effectiveness. UNDP is helping to strengthen
TANGO and ACCNO to enable them to perform their coordinating functions
effectively.
2.31     Kafos.  These are village-level women's groups-, generally
organized on the basis of age. Membership is voluntary, and contributions
are made regularly on a weekly or monthly basis. The number of members
ranges from 15 to over 300, with most kafos having about 100. Most of them
have a "father' -- a trusted man in the community to whom they frequently
entrust their savings. Traditionally, kafos were primarily concerned with
providing mutual support: members sharing labor on each other's fields,
making loans to those in need, and combining resources for major events.
Lately, kafos have widened their scope of activities and become active in
income-generating activities, such as horticulture, tie-and-dye, sewing,
and soap-making. Many provide skill training for their members. Some kafos
have even opened bank or post office savings accounts, but having ready
access to these accounts generally poses problems because of the expensive
travel involved. Kafos also now tend to be more structured, with the
leaders assigned officer-type roles and held accountable by the members.
2.32     In the process of evolving, kafos have come up against a variety
of constraints. While some are simply extensions of common problems faced
by rural women (e.g. insecurity of land tenure and a lack of labor-saving
devices, farm equipment, and transport to carry their produce to market),
other constraints result from the important role of the kafos not being
recognized by outside interventions. A recent survey undertaken in a number
of villages revealed that most development agencies, including many NGOs,
often are not aware of the organizational potential represented in a kafo
and establish new structures to involve women in their development efforts.
This not only wastes available resources often in short supply, but also
weakens the indigenous kafos' ability tc help themselves. Village-level
women's associations should be made use of and, to the extent practicable
and useful, be encouraged to register under appropriate existing
legislation.



- 12 -
2.33     Village Development Committees (VDCs).  These committees are
village institutions responsible for the "grassroot' implementation of
development programs. Their membership is composed of village secular and
religious leaders, representatives of male and female groups, and agents of
government departments (i.e., Community Development Assistants,
Agricultural Extension Workers, and Village Health Workers). VDCs have
been established in a large number of villages, but their degree of
involvement in community decision-making varies considerably. In some
areas, particularly where development programs are sponsored by NGOs, VDCs
are very active, while in other areas they are dormant. The Government
intends to strengthen and expand VDCs nationwide as the focal point for
integrated development at the village level and for mobilizing and
generating resources. A proposal for strengthening VDCs, with emphasis on
improving their capacity to provide supervision and support for the
national PHC program, was recently prepared by Project Concern
International, a US-based institution, and is currently being considered by
USAID for funding.
D.  The Government's Strategy
2.34     The Gambia's main development objectives, as stated in the 1985-
88 Economic Recovery Program (para 2.02) are to (a) bring the public sector
into balance with the productive base of the economy; (b) create favorable
incentives for private sector productive activities in agriculture,
resource-based industries, fishing, and tourism; and (c) develop The
Gambia's human resources capital by giving priority to long-term
investments in education and basic health services. The Government is well
aware that improving the condition of women is an essential part of the
overall effort to achieve these objectives. It has formally acknowledged
the need to improve women's status and increase their access to productive
resources and basic social services. Various initiatives are already
underway to increase women's participation in socio-economic development.
To assist in these efforts, many donors and NGOs are funding programs
designed to alleviate some of the constraints faced by women (para 2.05);
however, both the Government and the donors agree that much more needs to
be done to improve the welfare and status of women. Hence, with the Bank's
assistance, the Government has developed a national strategy for
integrating women into the development process.
2.35     This national strategy, covering all identified aspects of women's
concerns and needs, has two principle objectives: (a) provide
opportunities for women to improve their economic status by increasing
their access to productive resources; and (b) increase women's access to
basic social services (education, health, nutrition, and family planning).
The Government's commitment to these objectives is manifested in the direct
and personal involvement of the President, who also serves as the Minister
for Women's Affairs, and in the creation of the National Women's Council
and the Women's Bureau in 1980 to advise the Government on women's issues.
Moreover, recognizing the importance of NGOs in the overall effort to
improve the condition of women, the Government has also created an Advisory
Committee for the Coordination of NGOs (ACCNO), to monitor their activities
and advise on community needs and opportunities.
2.36     Within the framework of the national strategy, the Government
intends to address a number of policy and program concerns. With respect
to the productive sector, the Government intends to  (a) improve women's



- 13 -
access to productive resources and labor-saving technology (e.g.,
fertilizer, chemicals, improved farm implements, milling machines, and
transport facilities); (b) improve the extension workers' knowledge of
"female crops"; (c) strengther. support for women's horticultural
activities; (d) increase women's access to credit; and (e) strengthen
women's entrepreneurial capacity. To increase women's access to basic
social services, the Government proposes to (a) increase female educational
enrollment (it has already taken a major step in this regard by lowering
the primary school entry age from 8 to 7); (b) increase female literacy and
their skill training opportunities; and (c) expand and strengthen maternal
and child health, family planning. and nutrition programs.
2.37     While the Government's strategy covers the most essential programs
and reforms, there also is need for legislative and related actions to help
overcome discrimination in both the public and private sectors. In line
with its mandate under the National Women's Council Act of i980, 1/ the
Women's bureau commissioned a highly important study on the legal status of
women. It deals with such questions as the civil. and political rights of
women, marriage, divorce, inheritance and succession, and land ownersaip
rights, from the viewpoint of the statutory legislation, the sharia
(Islamic law), the traditional laws and customs, and the role of the
courts. Seminars have been organized to discuss the stud) s conclusions
and recommendations, some of which have also been taken up by the Law
Reform Commission, whose mandate is to prepare the relevant bills to be
sent to the Minister of Justice and thence to Parliament. As part of these
ongoing activities, the study should be widely distributed, possioly in an
abridged form. As stated in the study, improving the status of wvomen calls
for the utmost caution, sensitivity and determination. The Women's Bureau
should be commended for its invaluable work and be given the means to
undertake more research and awareness campaigns, particularly through the
proposed WID project, to build on what has already been accomplished.
Further government initiatives are now needed to bring about a change in
society's perception of the role of women and to build commitment and
understanding of women's issues at the community level. This should
include a full-scale and well-orchestrated information, education and
communication (IEC) campaign, covering the full range of issues.
E. The Bank Group's Role
2.38     Agriculture.  IDA has financed three projects in the agricultural
sector of The Gambia, two of which are completed: The Gambia Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 333-GM for US$1.3 million, 1972) and the Rural
Development Project (Cr. 644-GM for US$4.1 million, 1976). The Second
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1476-GM for US$9.4 million, 1984) is
ongoin6. All three projects have failed to establish a viable system for
supplying farm inputs because of low credit recovery, due mainly to overly
liberal credit policies and exclusive reliance on parastatals. In
addition, GCU, the primary implementing agency, has had long-standing
management problems. Both project performance audit reports on the
1/ The Act empowers the Women's Bureau 'to examine and study the economic,
rocial and cultural structure of the society... and to study and advise
government on how traditiorm! beliefs and practices have adversely affected
the advancement of Women and what steps should be taken to correct the
situation.*



- 14 -
completed projects (PPAR No. 1724 for The Gambia Agricultural Development
Project, September 1977, and PPAR No. 4558 for the Rural Development
Project. June 1983) mention the failure of these projects to recognize and
take into account the crucial role that women play in the Gambian farming
system and cite the failure to do so as one cause of their poor
performance. While the first project completely ignored women, the Rural
Development Project addressed women's needs only marginally; under that
project, women leaders with some schooling were selected in 3 few farming
communities to provide extension services to other women. This experiment
proved to be successful, but its impact was negligible because of its
modest size. The ongoing Second Agricultural Development Project has only
recently addressed women farmers' needs by integrating them into the
training program for extension workers.
2.39     IDA's experience in the Gambian agricultural sector  provides
valuable lessons that are taken into account in the design of the proposed
WID project. These includes (a) recognizing the complex division of tasks
and responsibilities that characterizes the Gambian household economy; (b)
placing more emphasis on savings than on credit to provide capital for
increased agricultural productivity; (c) encouraging increased community
participation and responsibilities, which is consistent with the approach
promoted under the Economic Reform Program (para 2.02), to reduce public
sector involvement in meeting community needs; and (d) establishing an
effective monitoring and evaluation system for regularly measuring project
progress.
2.40     Enterprise development.  The Enterprise Development Project (Cr.
1975-GM for US$10.0 million, 1989) provides logistical and technical
support to the Gambia Women's Finance Company (GWFC), an affiliate of
Women's World Banking. GWFC was established in 1987 to provide technical
and managerial training and access to institutional credit for small and
medium enterprises headed by women. With contributions from local business
establishments, its own fund-raising activities, and matching funds from
Women's World Ban-king, GWFC has set up a fund to partially guarantee
commercial loans to women. US$1.0 million of the project's line of credit
has been earmarked to finance small and medium sub-projects of women
entrepreneurs.
2.41     Health.  The National Health Development Project (Cr. 1760-GM for
US$5.6 million, 1987) is in its third year of implementation and
considerable progress has been made in the areas of (a) cost recovery (the
current recovery rate is 65Z and the utilization rate of health services
has increased considerably since project inception); (b) primary health
care, which has been expanded to cover the Western Region of the country;
and (c) in-service training in MCH care and family planning.
Implementation of the civil works program (mainly reconstruction and
rehabilitation of health centers) has, however, experienced substantial
delays and cost overruns; also, the sectoral reform program, particularly
the decentralization of financial management of the two national hospitals
and the three Regional health offices is progressing slowly. Technical
assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Health to accelerate the
decentralization program, and a revised work program with detailed revised
costing will be devised for the civil works program to accelerate its
completion and determine the magnitude of the financing gap.



- 15 -
2.42     Urban services.  The ongoing Urban Management and Development
Project (Cr. 1443-GM for US$11.5 million, 1984), directly benefits women's
small urban enterprises through the expansion and rehabilitation of three
major markets in the Greater Banjul area. At least 502 of the traders in
these markets are women. The markets are being provided with new roofing
and concrete floors, as well as water and sanitation facilities, which will
considerably improve the traders' working conditions.
2.43     Rationale for IDA's involvement.  The Government's WID strategy
addresses women's concerns and issues adequately. Its dual purpose of
increasing women's productive capacity and at the same time increasing
their access to basic social services, thereby contributing to general
economic growth, is in line with IDA's country objectives. The Gove'.ment
looks to IDA for assistance to further develop and implement this strategy.
In its sectoral lending programs, IDA is helping to address critical
women's development issues through the Enterprise Development, Health, and
Urban Management Development Projects. An education sector project, being
processed in parallel with this operation, addresses the issue of female
enrollment and achievement in the formal education system. There is need,
however, to address women's development issues within a more comprehensive
framework. Through the proposed WID project, IDA can play a critical role
in helping the Government to do so and to design and test new approaches to
women's issues and better coordinate donor assistance in this field. Once
these initiatives have been developed and prove successful, they could
become part of the country's sectoral programs. An IDA free-standing WID
project makes sense in The Gambia at this time, because of the small
project pipeline and consequent limited opportunity to introduce WID
components in a number of sectors in the short-term, and also because the
component approach has not been fully successful in some previous projects
in The Gambia.
2.44     The proposed VID project would be the Bank Group's first WID
project. The Gambia is particularly suited for such a novel project.
because (a) the Government has made a strong commitment to address women's
issues; and (b) the encouraging results of small-scale innovative
approaches, particularly by NGOs, merit replication.



- 16 .
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin
3.01      In May 1987, with the assistance of the World Bank and other
major donors, the Government of The Gambia organized a Women in Development
Workshop, which drafted the Government's women in development (WED)
strategy. Thereafter, the Government requested IDA's assistance in
addressing the women's issues raised during the course of the worksh:p; the
IDA mission that participated in the workshop also identified areas for
possible IDA intervention.
3.02      Preparation of the prcposed project began in 1988.  Efforts have
been made to identify specific needs and concerns of Gambian women, and the
project components have been selected and designed to address those
considered to be the most important and urgent. To ensure local
participation in defining and addressing the needs of Gaibian women,
project preparation was entrusted to local task forces composed of
government officials and representatives of the NGOs most active in women's
projects. The task forces were assisted by consultants, with financing
provided under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and by four IDA
missions during 1988 and 1989. Various pilot activities, studies and
surveys were undertaken during the preparation stage to identify
strategies for replication under the proposed project. More recently, line
ministries have assumed direct responsibility for the remainder of project
preparation to enable them to incorporate relevant project components into
their normal operational tasks. The project was appraised in
October/November 1989.
B.   Project Obiectives
3.03      The WID project aims to (a) improve women's productivity and
income-earning potential; (b) improve women's welfare and status; (c)
strengthen government institutions to enable thetm to better deal with
women's issues; and (d) contribute to bringing about a change in society's
perception of the role of women.
C.   Summary of Project Composition
3.04      The project comprises six components, summarized below.
(a) Increasing women's agricultural productivity and disposable
income and improving the nutritional level of women and children
throughs (i) the strengthening of agricultural extension
services to better serve women; (ii) private sector input
distribution; (iii) support for women's cooperative groups; (iv)
strengthening of food storage, preservation and nutrition
extension; (v) improved management of small-scale post-harvest



- 17 -
equipment; and (vi) a savings mobilization campaign directed at
women.
(b)  Improving the skills of rural women and promoting viable and
marketable skills; organizing and strengthening women's groups
in rural areas for small business and income-generating
activities; and promoting basic literacy and numeracy skills
through training activities related to women's social and
economic needs.
(c) Promoting safe motherhood and strengthening family planning
services through: (i) training of village-level health workers
and traditional birth attendants in early identification and
management of high-risk pregnancies; (ii) development of an
*alarm' and transport system at the community level to handle
medical emergencies in time; (iii) a nutrition education and
micro-nutrient supplementation program; and (iv) expansion of
the community-based contraceptive distribution system and
involvement of pharmacists and drug dispensers in the family
planning program.
(d)  Developing an information, education and communication (IEC)
strategy, with emphasis on specific needs and concerns of women,
and reinforcing ongoing educational and motivational campaigns
on agriculture, health, family planning, and nutrition.
(e)  Strengthening the capacity of the Women's Bureau for policy and
program formulation, advice, awareness creation, and monitoring
and evaluation of the impact of women's development programs
through technical assistance, training, and support for studies.
(f) Establishing a fund to be used by NGOs, on a matching fund
basis, or small projects and programs designed to help women
and children.
3.05      The project would be implemented over a five-year period
(October 1990 - September 1995). Although a few of the proposed activities
would be nationwide, 200 villages (out of a total of about 1,800 in The
Gambia), with a population representing about 25Z of the cotntry's total
population, are targeted for project interventions. Most of these 200
villages would benefit from the full range of planned activities; other
villages, where there is no sptzific program need or where intervention is
not feasible, would receive only parts of the package. For example, while
villages in the Upper River Division would be targeted for intervention
under the safe motherhood and family planning component, the agricultural
scope of work will be limited in that Division because it is the
beneficiary of a large EEC agricultural project. Also, the skills
development component would be implemented in only 125 villages. In
selecting the 200 villages, criteria specific to each component were
identified and used to prepare preliminary lists. These lists have been
reconciled on the basis of an appropriate geographical distribution and a
mixture of criteria, including women's needs and vulnerability, village
accessibility, and the existence of a minimum of facilities and activities.



- 18 -
The selection process followed by the Government is appropriate. The list
of the 200 project villages was finalized during negotiations.
D.   Project Description
1. Agriculture
3.06      The objectives of the agricultural component are to increase
women's agricultural productivity, provide women in rural areas wPh
opportunities to increase their disposable income, and improve the
nutritional status of women and children. The implementation strategy
developed for this component aims to integrate government services, private
initiatives, and local NGOs according to their comparative advantages by:
(a) Strengthening government extension services so that they will
better serve women farmers engaged in producing field crops and
in horticultural and livestock production;
(b) Increasing women's access to improved production technologies
through the establishment of a private sector network of women
retailers for agricultural inputs, and through institutional
support to GCU for increasing the provision of inputs to women's
farming groups;
(c) Reinforcing the long-term ability of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) to work with women
on post-harvest storage, preservation and food processing by
providing technical assistance, training, and operational funds;
(d) Establishing village management committees and operator training
facilities for existing coarse-grain mills to alleviate
maintenance and operational problems; and
(g) Mobilizing savings by facilitating access of rural women to
commercial banks and other financial institutions.
The sub-components comprising the agricultural component are described in
Annex 3-1 and summarized below.
3.07      Strengthening extension services for women's field crops.  The
Government has agreed to develop and implement a program to strengthen
extension services for women's agricultural activities. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that among the "contact
farmers, selected by the extension service, it will increase the percentage
who are women to 10, 15Z, 202, 252 and 302 by June 30, 1991, 1992, 1993,
1994, and 1995 respectively; and among the farmers selected to participate
in block demonstrations, it will increase the percentage of women to 152,
202, 252, 302 and 352, respectively, by the same dates. The Government
also gave assurances that it will prepare and transmit to IDA by December
31, 1990, for discussion a national strategy paper, including strategy at
the divisional level, aimed at increasing the impact of its agricultural
extension program on women and ensuring achievement of the above-described



- 19 -
percentage increases in the number of women contact farmers and women block
demonstration participants. The following measures under the WID project
will provide guidance to field staff in identifying and overcoming the
constraints faced by women farmerss
-    A campaign to sensitize field staff and women farmers would be
conducted at the beginning of the project; this would include
workshops attended by extension staff and leaders of women's
groups for mutual exchange of information.
-    Semiannual program planning workshops within the Department of
Agricultural Services and an annual workshop with non-
governmental extension workers would be held so exchange
extension experience and improve strategies for reaching women.
-    Extension manuals, with special reference to the constraints
faced by women farmers and with emphasis on wvmen's traditional
crops, would be produced for use by village extension workers.
Block demonstrations, specifically designed for women farmers, on the use
of improved technologies are expected to play a key role in increasing
demand for such technologies among women. These demonstrations will be
carefully orchestrated with the efforts to improve input availability
through private retailers and Cooperative women's groups.
3.08      Strengthening extension services forwomen's horticulture.
Horticulture is almost exclusively a women's activity in The Gambia.
A Horticultural Extension Program (HEP) already exists, but the principal
responsibility for horticultural extension rests with the polyvalent
Village Extension Workers (VEWs), most of whom have no specific training
for gardening. This sub-component would upgrade the HEP by providing
logistical support, local training for extension personnel, and training
abroad for senior staff. Support would also be given for the horticultuzal
demonstration programs of the FAO Fertilizer Project.
3.09      Strengthening extension services for women's livestock
production. Improving small ruminant and poultry production has especially
important implications for the economic status of women. Women own 402 of
the sheep, 50X of the goats and most of the poultry in The Gambia. This
sub-component would build on experience gained in pilot programs presently
being undertaken by the Department of Livestock Services. It would
include: the training of specialized livestock extension staff and the
development of delivery systems for health care packages and low-cost
feeding supplements; logistical support for field staff; a revolving fund
for a variety of preventive and curative drugs; and laboratory equipment.
The drugs would be sold by extension staff for cash, with the revenues used
to replenish the revolving fund at the Department of Livestock Services.
3.10      Extending the private sector input retailer network.  Limited
access to inputs has been identified as a major constraint to agricultural
production. ThJs sub-component would enable 18 women retailers to become
suppliers of agricultural inputs, and would be implemented through the FAO
Fertilizer Project, attached to the Department of Agricultural Services,



- 20 -
which has already gained experience in identifying and assisting
entrepreneurs who wish to enter this field. Candidates would be selected
on the basis of their previous experience, track record, and geographical
location. Business training would be offered, and credit for farm inputs
would be supplied to the retailers. The retailers, in turn, would pass
credit on to customers at their discretion. For each woman retailer, the
project would provide a Technical Sales Agent for two years to assist in
book-keeping, input distribution, and liaison with farmers. A study on the
proposed private retailer network would be undertaken as soon as possible
to determine the kind and amount of financial support that may be needed to
enhance the prospects for women retailers.
3.11      Support for women's Cooperative groups.  The Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU), the only source of institutional credit for small farmers in
The Gambia (para 2.07), recently embarked upon a program to make
agricultural loans (both seasonal and medium term inputs) available to
target groups, particularly women farmers, that are traditionally under-
represented in access to GCU credit. GCU presently uses the village branch
lending system for credit disbursement; thio system transfers decision-
making and responsibility for loan recovery to the village level and
strongly relies on the traditional authority and inherent social pressures
in rural society. In successive years, credit would be provided to
villages only if the overall rate of repayment exceeds 95Z. During the
1989 season, GCU provided credit to five women's groups on an experimental
basis. The WID project would encourage this activity by providing
institutional support financing for up to seven specialized women's credit
officers; they would identify and liaise with the women farmer groups
deemed suitable for GCU credit.
3.12      Strengthening food storage, preservation and nutrition
extension. The Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) of the Department of
Agricultural Services has a mandate to work with women on post-harvest
storage, preservation, and processing of food. FNU is characterized by
limited staff capability, insufficient recurrent funding, and inadequate
equipment. Under this sub-component, an institutional linkage would be
established with ar. appropriate technology organization, with technical
assistance provided during the start-up phase of the project. The project
would finance the development of extension materials, provide further
training for FNU staff, and provide logistical support as well as basic
office, laboratory and kitchen equipment. FNU would collaborate with the
Nutrition Unit of the Ministry of Health in an outreach program to avoid
seasonal malnutrition, with particular emphasis on maternal malnutrition
and also with the Agricultural Engineering Unit on developing and adapting
improved food-processing equipment.
3.13      Improving management of small-scale post-harvest equipment.
Post-harvest processing of cereals is among the most arduous and time-
consuming duties of rural women (para 2.06). Several hundred coarse-grain
mills, coarse-grain dehullers and rice dehullers have been distributed to
villages under various donor projects. Most of this equipment appears to
be non-functional because of maintenance and management problems. The
Catholic Relief Services (CRS) has been involved since 1983 in testing
post-harvest equipment and training village mill management committees.



- 21 -
CRS is now withdrawing from direct involvement in such development
activities. To ensure the continuation of those activities and that
maximum development impact is obtained from the existing stock of mills and
dehullers, the Project Coordinating Committee, in conjunction with TANGO,
will identify a suitable NGO or a private sector organization to build on
the work undertaken by CRS by setting up village management committees and
training local operators and mechanics.
3.14      Mobilizing women's savings.  Little emphasis has been given thus
far to savings mobiMzation, although individual savings could achieve many
of the objectives of seasonal credit. There is evidence of considerable
unmet demand for secure institutional savings mechanisms in The Gambia.
One advantage of providing improved savings facilities is that they would
be a safe means of helping women to keep control of the cash they earn and
to use it for productive purposes -- frequently difficult to do in a social
setting where there are strong pressures on women to 'lend' their earnings
to husbands or other extended household members. The Gambia Women's
Finance Company (GWFC), a local NGO, would, under a two-year renewable
technical assistance contract, help organize and educate existing women
groups for purposes of promoting and improving savings practices,
familiarizing these groups with available savings options and facilitating
their access to the regular banking channels. GWFC would not have any
fiduciary responsibility under this sub-component. GWFC would prepare a
detailed work program for IDA's review.
3.15      Agricultural Component Coordinator.  An Agricultural Component
Coordinating Unit, with a senior full-time Coordinator, would be
established within the Program Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The project would include provisions for establishment of the Unit as well
as its operating costs.
3.16      The project would finance: (a) office and laboratory furniture
and equipment, including cold chain and kitchen equipment for the Food and
Nutrition Unit (FNU), the Department of Livestock Services (DLS), the
Department of Agricultural Services (DAS), and the Agricultural Component
Coordinating Unit; (b) 72 motorcycles for extension workers, women
retailers, and saving mobilization agents; 11 vehicles (4-WD pick-up
trucks, etc.) for FNU, DLS, DAS, NGOs and the Agricultural Component
Coordinator, and vehicle operating and maintenance costs; (c) crop
extension manuals, training and library materials, and livestock drugs; (d)
training programs and workshops, regional study tours for extension
workers, field trips for women's groups, training abroad for two
horticultural supervisors, three Jiploma courses in the area of livestock
laboratory, and three university courses toward a Bachelor's degree in food
science and nutrition; (e) travel allowances for extension workers; (f)
stationery and communication materials; and (g) international technical
assistance to (i) assess and evaluate the private sector input distribution
programs, (ii) assist FNU in planning and launching its activities (iii)
help implement a program of institutional strengthening of village cereal
processing, and (iv) evaluate the savings mobilization campaign.



- 22 -
2. Skills Development
3.17      This component focuses on improving the skills of rural women
and promoting viable and marketable skills; organizing and strengthening
women's groups in rural areas to undertake small business and income-
generating activities; and promoting basic literacy and numeracy skills
through training activities related to women's social and economic needs.
To attain these objectives, the skills development component comprises
three sub-components, summarized below and described in detail in
Annex 3-2.
3.18      Strengthening Government Departments and Participating Agencies.
The Department of Community Development (DCD) in the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands would be the main implementing agency for the skills
development component. The main participating agancy would be the
Department of Nonformal Education (NFE) in the Ministry of Education,
Youth, Sports and Culture. To achieve the objectives of the skills
development component within the context of the WID project, the technical
and managerial capabilities of the professional staff need to be
strengthened and the physical infrastructure improved. Hence the main
activities of this sub-component would be: the training of national staff
of DCD and NFE (Skills Component Coordinator, CDOs and NFE Divisional
staff) in project implementation and management techniques; study tours in
neighboring countries for national level staff (selected personnel of DCD,
NFE and Divisional CDOs), followed by debriefing workshops in Banjul, vhich
would include field-level CDAs; Division-level orientation workshops for
Division Commissioners and members of Village Development Committees
(VDCs); in-service and refresher training for 50 CDAs and retraining of
home crafts assistants (HCAs).
3.19      Skills Development Program.  Under this sub-component, as the
main operational activity of the skills development component, a skills
development program would be undertaken to improve the economic
productivity of women, increase their income, and enhance their social
status. The program would target about 10,000 women in 125 villages
nationwide, to be selected from among the larger group of 200 project
villages before the implementation phase begins in Gambia's five
administrative Divisions. Existing women's kafo groups would serve as
entry points for the skills development component. Trained CDAs would
facilitate the formation of other groups interested in initiating new
business activities based on identified market opportunities. The CDAs
would also use the kafo groups as entry points to identify and select women
tutors or other appropriate persons from the villages to promote basic
numeracy and literacy. A total of 125 tutors would be trained for three
months over a period of six to seven months. The skills development
program would improve and upgrade existing skills as well as introduce new
ones. It would offer training in technical skills, business management,
improved production methods and technologies, and the capacity to use
credit. Skill training for income generation and for functional literacy
would commence simultaneously, so that both of these activities reinforce
each other and have maximum impact. Sustainability would be maintained
through the use of existing facilities and of local personnel in the



- 23 -
identification of training needs, training activities, management, etc., so
that the program may continue uninterrupted in following years.
3.20      Improved Access to Credit.  This sub-component for improving
access to credit for rural women is a crucial addition to the skills
development component. Credit would be extended to women participants in
the skills development program who have acquired specific skills. Women's
groups as welU as individuals would be considered. A small-scale credit
scheme, not exceeding a total of US$600,000, would be funded under the
skills development component.
3.21      Monitoring and evaluation would be a continuous activity carrled
out throughout the life of the skills development component and its
interrelated credit scheme. The three technical assistants for the
component, together with their Gambian counterparts, would develop
performance indicators. To ensure that the monitoring and evaluation
system is understood and properly implemented by all concerned, it would
form part of the curriculum for the training of national staff, Division-
level personnel, and field workers in workshops.
3.22      The project would finance: (a) equipment and furniture for DCD,
village classrooms, and an office for the credit specialist; (b) post-
literazy materials for 10,000 women and production of booklets for the
skills development program; (c) S0 motorcycles, 10 vehicles for DCD, and
ope.ating and maintenance costs of these vehicles; (d) in-service and
refresher training for 50 CDAs and retraining of HCAs; (e) 10 person-
months of study tours in Africa; (f) the services of the following
specialistss credit (9 person-months), training (12 person-months) and
small business (36 person-months); (g) training for 125 tutors, and their
salaries for the life of the project; (h) a US$600,000 credit scheme; and
i) stationery for offices and workshops.
3. Safe Motherhood and Family Planning
3.23      The objectives of this component are to reduce the current high
maternal mortality rate and the incidence of malnutrition in the target
villages, and improve the use of modern contraceptives nationwide. The
strategy proposed for achieving these objectives includes: the training of
TBAs, CHNs and outreach health personnel to improve identification and
management of at-risk mothers well before delivery; establishment of an
'alarm evacuation system to transfer high-risk pregnancies and emergencies
to facilities where more sophisticated care can be provided; a nutrition
education and micro-nutrient supplementation program; and the expansion of
family planning (FP) services. The activities of this component would
expand and strengthen the village based health care system; they would
complement the activities undertaken in the National Health Development
Program (para 2.16) and improve the link between village communities and
the public health services, both with respect to the patient referral
system and to staff supervision and support. Some of the proposed measures
are innovative and would therefore be introduced on a pilot basis. The MCH
Unit in the Ministry of Health's Medical and Health Department would have
major responsibility for implementation of this component.



- 24 -
3.24      The safe motherhood and family planning comprises four sub-
components: (a) risk identification and management; (b) local evacuation
and telecommunications; (c) women's nutrition; and (d) family planning.
These are described in Annex 3-3 and summarized below.
3.25      Identification, Management and Referral of High-Risk
Pregnancies. In-service training would be provided for 200 TBAs, 40-50
CHNs, and 45 trekking team members to provide better antenatal, perinatal
and post-natal care for all pregnant women in the target villages and to
improve risk identification and referral. In addition, 400 untrained TBAs
would be given training in sterile delivery techniques and risk
identification/management, they would be integrated into the national PHC
system. An evaluation of ongoing TBA programs is expected to be conducted
before the end of 1990. Lessons learned from this evaluation would be
incorporated into the in-service training program. Approaches currently
used by NG0s -- use of traditional women's groups (Kabilos) based on family
ties to identify and refer high-risk pregnancies and simple pictoral cards
to assist the TBAs in the identification and referral of high-risk
pregnancies -- would be tested in the context of the public health services
before the Government integrates them into the national PHC system. Under
this sub-component, 35 sub-dispensaries would be refurbished and/or
reconstructed. Fifteen trekking teams would also receive new equipment.
In addition, health posts would be built in 10 isolated villages.
3.26      Alarm and Evacuation System.  Animal-drawn carts would be
provided for some 105 remote villages for the emergency evacuation of
pregnant women to a point where motorized transport is available. The
carts would be designed to improve comfort and safety (i.e. built with
cushioned pads and side barriers). They would belong to the Village
Development Committees (VDCs), which would appoint a caretaker for the
animals and carts; some use of the animal (e.g., for farming activities)
would be granted to the caretaker as an incentive for caring for the
animal. The VDCs would closely monitor the use and the maintenance of both
animal and cart. The system would be first tried out in 21 villages and
only if it proves successful would the system be extended to the remaining
villages. The existing telecommunications facilities would be expanded to
provide communication between the health centers and key villages in the
Upper River Division, one of the country's most isolated and unserviced
areas.
3.27      Women's Nutrition.  This sub-component comprises: (a) a
nutrition educational program to promote changes in behavior that will
improve the nutrition and health of high-risk groups, with particular
emphasis on the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women; and (b)
a micro-nutrient supplementation program for these women. Recipes for
weaning food and maternal supplements using local ingredients would be
developed under the project with the assistance of FNU. Qualitative
research on food practices and beliefs, a study on vitamin A deficiency and
market and household shelf studies would be undertaken to guide the design
and development of the nutrition educational program. The project
activities would complement and support the ongoing food supplementation
program of the Catholic Relief Services (CRS). A multi-media approach
would be used for the nutrition educational strategy, but special emphasis



- 25 -
would be given to participatory communication techniques (e.g., use of
local musicians, problem dramas, role playing) and inter-personal
communication. Financing would be provided for workshops, meetings and
seminars at various administrative levels to support the educational
process. All community outreach workers (health, agriculture, CDAs and
NGOs) would be included in the program.
3.28      Family Planning.  This sub-component complements activities
envisaged under a UNFPA-financed project to strengthen family planning
services. It comprises the following activities: (a) expanding the modern
contraceptive distribution network 'n both rural and urban areas; (b)
providing community health education, including family life education; (c)
enlisting the private sector in the safe and effective distribution of
contraceptives; (d) undertaking a contraceptive prevalence survey jointly
with UNFPA; and (e) financing a study on infertility. Educational
activities would, in particular, address the issue of male attitudes toward
family planning and the impact of religious beliefs on FP practices. Sixty
new community based distribution (CBD) sites would be established under
this sub-component -- 40 by the Medical and Health Department in rural non-
PHC areas, using TBAs as CBD agents, and 20 by the Gambia Family Planning
Association (GFPA) in the Greater Banjul area. Financing would cover the
training and supervision of the GFPA agents and the TBAs.
3.29      The project would finance: (a) the upgrading of 35 existing
dispensaries used as trekking stations by the MCH outreach clinics and the
construction of 10 new health posts; building operating and maintenance
costs; (b) 105 animals and carts; one 4-WD vehicle, three double cabin
pick-ups, eight motorcycles and their operating and maintenance costs for
the nutrition education and family planning programs; (c) equipment and
furniture for the outreach stations and new health posts; radio equipment,
solar-power modules for four base stations and 10 outstations in the Upper
River Division; td) training (TBAs, CHNs, trekking teams, kabilos, and
extension workers); (e) foreign and local specialist qervices (for studies
and surveys as well as a health nutrition education specialist); (f)
nutrition and planning workshops and studies; and (g) training and
educational materials and micro-nutrients.
4. Information, Education and Communication (IEC'
3.30      This component would provide IEC support to the other project
components -- agriculture, safe motherhood and family planning, and skills
development -- as well as generally promote the Ftatus of Gambian women.
This support would include the training of front-line workers in
communication techniques, the production and dissemination of IEC
materials, research on communication issues related to implementation of
the WID project, and infrastructure development to ensure sustainability.
3.31      The IEC component has two principal objectives: promote
awareness among men as well as women about the needs and concerns of
Gambian women and their role in the country's socio-economic development;
and identify, mobilize and utilize communication resources accessible to
women in promoting the goals of the WID project. Specifically, the IEC
component aims to: (a) create awareness and initiate dialogue among policy-



- 26 -
makers and 'gatekeepers concerning the needs and concerns of women; (b)
provide communication support for the field activities of the line
ministries; (c) provide infrastructure support for the production and
broadcast agencies to make them more responsive to development needs; (d)
establish a communication model in 30 villages to enhance learning and
accelerate improvement in women's status in general; (e) provide research
support for all communication activities to ensure quality production and
efficient dissemination and to enhance learning; (f) provide a feedback
mechanism to enable popular participation in the formulation, design and
implementation of communication activities through traditional as well as
modern media and to serve as a source of information for policy-makers; and
(g) train a cadre of professionals in all the concerned ministries to
familiarize them with communication processes and thus enable them to plan,
implexent and evaluate IEC activities.
3.32      To achieve its objectives, the IEC component would rely on four
public sector institutions, whose responsibilities and activities in
implementing the component comprise its four sub-components, described in
detail in Annex 3-4 and summarized below. The Women's Bureau would
coordinate all IEC activities, both centrally and in the field. The units
responsible for IEC within each sector would be the Agricultural
Communication Unit (ACU) of the Ministry of Agriculture for the
agricultural component; the Health Education Unit (lEU) of the Ministry of
Health for the safe motherhood and FP component; and the Nonformal
Education Department of the Ministry of Education for the skills
development component.
3.33      The Women's Bureau and Central Coordination.  Central
coordination responsibility for the IEC component would be assigned to the
Bureau's IEC Unit, which would coordinate the scheduling of campaigns and
media production, assist in the formulation and delivery of messages, and
supervise overall technical progress of the IEC component. The IEC Unit
would also assist the PMU in ordering and installing equipment for
implementing the component. As part of IEC infrastructure development, two
technical specialists would be recruited. One would serve as the
Coordinator of the IEC component for a period of three years; he would be
assisted by and train a Gambian counterpart, and would be recruited prior
to project start-up to help prepare a detailed IEC plan and assist in
procurement of electronic equipment. The other specialist would be
recruited to oversee maintenance and repair of the electronic equipment and
to train Gambian counterparts; he wculd be recruited in the second year of
the project and serve two years.
3.34      The Women's Bureau would initiate an innovative program in which
solar-powered VCRs and monitors would be set up in video halls in 30 of the
project villages. Educational video showings would be prepared by each
project component's Film Unit and screened at the video halls on a regular
weekly basis. Field personnel from the concerned ministries would coincide
their visits with showings of their material so that they may respond to
questions or stimulate discussion of women's issues. The video halls would
be under the care of organized women's groups in each village. Commercial
videos could also be shown, for a charge, by the women's associations, with
the income used for maintenance, rental of commercial video tapes, or other



- 27 -
minimal recurrent expenditures. It is anticipated that 10 video halls vill
be established in each of project years two, three and four (Annex 3-4,
para 8). The Women's Bureau would also coordinate the activities of 200
radio-listening clubs, print production (posters, pamphlets, etc.) for all
four sub-components, and all IEC-related research. It would be responsible
for a visual literacy survey, to be undertaken prior to project start-up,
and for other qualitative surveys at a later date. These surveys would
serve as a baseline for assessing attitudes and behavior concerning women;
this in turn would aid in message development and in monitoring progress in
improving women's status in general. The project would include IEC
activities aired at eradicating harmful traditional practices, such as
female circmIcision.  The Women's Bureau would organize workshops. training
of TBAs and radio listening groups. The Bureau would assist the production
agencies in pre-testing their materials prior to mass producticn and
distribution. It would also undertake a longitudinal survey to compare the
30 villages with video halls with control groups to determine what impact,
if any, easy access to media may have on educational, social, economic and
anthropological variables. The Bureau would organize four IEC workshops.
and host seminars and conferences for sharing information and exchanging
views on the role of women. A workshop would be held during each of the
first four years of the project. Technical assistance for the IEC
component, including short-term TA (total of 10 person-months), would be
managed by the Bureau. Production of materials, except those for the
Agricultural Communication Unit, would be delegated to local production
agencies (Annex 3-4, para 12).
3.35      Radio Gambia would provide radio support for all key project
activities. This would include preparation of radio programs, production
of single-issue series (e.g., women's health), radio spots, duplication of
tapes for use by the radio-listening clubs, and other serv4.ces as needed.
Radio Gambia would be provided with technical training to enable it to
undertake audience surveys to improve program quality.  The PMU would
assist Radio Gambia in purchasing and installing a transmitter during the
first year of the project in order to extend the radio signal to the whole
country.
3.36      The Agricultural Communication Unit (ACU).  With an educational
system already in operation (including studio and video tape and print
production facilities), ACU has an important role in the IEC component. It
would produce video programs in support of its field activities,
coordinating them with the Women's Bureau for viewing in the 30 villages to
be provided with video halls. ACU would support the field activities of
extension workers, training them in the communication process and supplying
them with IEC materials.
3.37      Two workshops are scheduled, one to develop prototype materials
for field workers and the other to test these materials prior to
duplication. A flip-chart would be produced for each of the 200 project
villages, along with pamphlets and posters on a variety of agricultural
topics. ACU would provide IEC support for the agricultural component's
savings mobilization scheme (para 3.14), as part of an annual social
mobilization campaign to recruit new savers and later campaigns to
encourage savers to remain in the scheme.



- 28 -
3.38      The Health Education Unit (HEU).  HEU would provide IEC support
for the safe motherhood and FP component.  Since many of t'e issues
involved in disseminating safe motherhood con:epts are addressed by UNFPA,
USAID and other agencies, HEU would focus on activities not covered in
other programs. The main activity would be nutrition education, for which
allocations have been made for staff training, preparation of print and
electronic materials, and field activities. The topics for the video tapes
related to nutrition would include nutritional deficiency diseases, weaning
practices and infant nutrition, oral rehydration therapy, prenatal
nutrition, and other topics (Annex 3-4, para 27). A materials development
workshop would be held in project year two. The Food and Nutrition Unit
(para 3.12) would be provided with audio-cassette equipment to enable the
staff to make field recordings; these would serve not only as a feedback
mechanism but also as a resource for production of tapes by Radio Gambia.
3.39      In addition to r trition education, HEU would provide materials
to be used in the training of traditional birth attendants (TBAs), covering
topics such as pregnancy complications and safe delivery. In all of its
health education activities, HEU is expected to make maximum use of the
video halls and radio-listening clubs (Annex 3-4, paras 8 and 9).
3.40      The Nonformal Education (NFE) DePartment.  This Department would
manage IEC r_ztivities in support of the skills development component, most
of which would comprise the preparation of print materials in support of
literacy and numeracy programs. Three workshops would be held to train
literacy teachers in use of the IEC materials. Technical assistance would
be provided to help prepare and pre-test prototypes and train artists to
create illustrations to be used in the literacy/numeracy programs. The
Department would purchase 60 audio-cassette recorders for use during
literacy sessions, and would have access to the 200 radio-listening clubs
and their equipment. One member of the staff would accompany the four-
person team that during the project start-up phase would visit Niger to
observe rural solar-videos in operation; the other members would be the IEC
Coordinator, an ACU staff member, and an HEU staff member.
3.41      Items to be financed under the IEC component include: (a) three
4-WD vehicles for supervision, field recording and equipment maintenance
and their operating and maintenance costs; (b) audio and production
equipment and operating and maintenance costs; (c) IEC materials (audio-
cassette recorders, tape recorders, etc); (d) in-country training
(seminars, workshops) and training abroad; (e) the services of
international specialists (IEC coordinator, maintenance/repair engineer,
short-term specialists) and local specialists; (f) studies and research;
(g) office supplies; (h) production of IEC materials for village
consumption; and (i) travel allowances for personnel involved in IEC
delivery.
5.   Strengthening of the Women's Bureau
3.42      In addition to the technical and logistical support to be
provided to the implementing agencies under the various project components,
special emphasis would be given to strengthening the capacity of the
Women's Bureau for policy and program formulation, advice, awareness



- 29 -
creation, and monitoring and evaluation of the impact of women's
development programs. The assistance to the Bureau currently provided by
UNIFEM would be continued and expanded.
3.43      This component comprises two sub-components6  general
strengthening of the Women's Bureau, and monitoring and evaluation. These
are described in detail in Annex 3-5 and summarized below.
3.44      General strengthening of the Women's Bureau.  This involves its
organizational structure and staffing as well as the training of staff, and
includes:
(a)  Reinforcement of the Research Unit with a research program
focusing on small-scale and special surveys to supplement
national data programs;
(b) Some decentralization of the Bureau's activities through the
work of field officers, training of women leaders, and
organization of meetings, workshops and seminars in the Regions
to expand the Bureau's outreach, gain better understanding of
women's needs, and facilitate research and data collection;
(c) Mounting of nationwide educational and awareness campaigns on
women's issues;
(d) Strengthening of the Bureau's capability to collaborate and
negotiate with other agencies to ensure that women-oriented
activities are included in their programs;
(e) Improvement of the Bureau's documentation and reference service;
(f) Enhancement of the Bureau's communications program; and
(g) A new headquarters building for the Bureau, together with
furniture and equipment.
3.45      A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established within the
Women's Bureau and staffed by a full-time Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
and two assistants. Before start-up of the WID project, the Women's Bureau
would conduct a baseline survey of women residents in the 200 project
villages and a nationwide knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) survey
of both men and women. Tha baseline and RAP surveys would be repeated in
the final year of the project and the baseline survey would also be
repeated at post-project stages. The RAP survey has particular relevance
to the project's IEC activities. Additionally, throughout the project
period a series of small-scale project services monitoring surveys would be
conducted in target areas and communities to assess the effectiveness of
specific project interventions. These surveys would be carried out by the
M&E Unit in collaboration with the implementing agencies, and would be
particularly useful to the WID Project Management Unit for project
monitoring. The entire evaluation program is designed to be compatible
with and make use of other data-collection activities that would proceed in
parallel in The Gambia, particularly the permanent household survey (to be



- 30
conducted under the Social Dimension of Adjustment Project) and the
national agricultural sample survey. The impact evaluation program would
be an integrated program, using both primary and secondary sources of data
and phased over time, to provide the basis for assessing the project's
effects and impact. A Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, chaired by the
WID Project Manager and with the Bureau's M&E Officer serving as secretary,
would coordinate the design and activities of the various monitoring and
evaluation systems and the dissemination of information.
3.46      The project would finance:  (a) construction of a headquarters
building for the Women's Bureau, together with furniture and equipment; (b)
two 4-WD vehicles, including one for the M&E Unit, and 10 motorbikes for
the Bureau's field officers; (c) publications and documentation; (d) six
person-months of internationally recruited consultants for research and
monitoring/evaluation, and 18 person-months of local consultants for
research; (e) training of the Bureau's staff and women leaders, and costs
of seminars and workshops; (f) salaties of a researcher, two planners. an
editor, a documentalist, a social scientist. 10 field officers, a
monitoringlevaluation officer, and two monitoringlevaluation assistants;
5g) costs of the baseline, KAP and other surveys; and (h) vehicle operating
and maintenance costs.
6. The Fund
3.47      While the project's sectoral components are designed to address
women's most important and urgent needs and concerns, they cannot take care
of all the concerns and needs of Gambian women. To remedy that
shortcoming, the project would include a Fund, with an amount set at
US$500,000, to be used by NGOs, on a matching fund basis, for a variety of
village-level activities, small projects and programs designed to help
women and children. Possible areas of intervention include digging wells,
providing credit or inputs to women in rural areas, and enabling NGOs to
expand ongoing successful activities beyond the areas in which they
normally operate.
3.48      The Fund would be administered by the Project Management Unit
(PHU) in accordance with procedures and eligibility criteria satisfactory
to IDA. The Project Manager would review the relevant proposals and make
recommendations to the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), which would
approve the individual grants. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that (a) it will make available to the participating NGOs
portions of the amount allocated to the Fund, under agreements to be
eLtered into between the Government and the NGOs on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA; and (b) IDA will have the right to review and approve
(i) the first three proposals of NGOs for any particular activity (credit,
well-digging, etc.) regardless of the amount involved; and (ii) any
proposal in excess of US$40,000 equivalent. An outline of the functioning
of the Fund, including a list of eligibility criteria that could be used,
is provided in Annex 3-6. During negotiations, substantial agreement was
reached with the Government on that outline, but the Government wishes to
obtain the views of the NGOs before finalizing the details. A condition of
credit effectiveness would be the submission to IDA of details,



- 31 -
satisfactory to IDA, on the management and administration of the Fund,
including eligibility criteria.
E.   Project Management Unit (PMU)
3.49      Although each executing ministry or agency would be responsible
for implementing its component, overall management and coordination of the
project would be the responsibility of a Project Management Unit (PMU)
established in the Office of Lie President and under the overall guidance
of a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) (para 4.05). The PMU staff would
comprise a Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager, a Project Accountant,
an accounts clerk, a secretary and other support staff.
3.50      The project would finance (a) two vehicles and their operating
and maintenance costs; (b) technical assistance for procurement; (c) audits
of the project accounts; (d) costs of attendance by the ?MU staff at
conferences and seminars; and (e) salaries of the Project Manager, Deputy
Project Manager, and Project Accountant.
F. Project Costs and Financing
3.51      The project cost, at current prices, over the five-year project
period is estimated at US$15.1 million, of which US$9.2 million, or 61?, is
estimated to represent the foreign exchange component. The base cost would
be US$12.5 million. Physical and price contingencies are estimated to
amount to US$2.6 million; the physical contingencies include 10? for
physical investments and 5 for training, technical assistance and
operating costs. Price contingencies assume (a) a domestic inflation of 8?
p.a. for the first five years and 6.5? for the sixth 7ear, and (b) an
international inflation of 3.9? p.a. in the first five years and 3.7? p.a.
in the sixth year.  The table below shows project costs by component;
detailed project costs are shown in Annexes 3-7 and 3-8.
Component                                 Cost (US$ million)
Agriculture                                    3.2
Skills Development                             2.8
Safe Motherhood and Family Planning            1.2
Information, Education and Communication       2.1
Strengthening of the Women's Bureau            1.2
The Fund                                       0.5
Project Management Unit                        0.3
Refinancing of PPF                             1.2
Total Baseline Costs                          12.5
Physical and price contingencies               2.6
Total Estimated Project Costs                 15.1



- 32 -
3.52      IDA has allocated US$7.0 million toward the financing of this
project. The Government is expected to contribute US$3.8 million
equivalent, or 52 of project cost. The remaining US$7.3 million would come
from the African Development Fund, Norway, UNDP, UNIFEM and UNFPA.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Prolect Preparation and Readiness
4.01      Following the Women in Development Workshop (para 3.01)
organized by the Government to define a WID strategy, preparation of the
project started in 1988 and was entrusted to local task forces assisted by
consultants. Under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) an amount of
US$530,000 was approved in June 1988; a PPF Supplemental Advance of
US$640,000 was approved in February 1990.
4.02      The project preparation by the task forces is generally of high
quality. The scope and design of the project components, as well as
implementation and management and coordination issues, were discussed at a
Consolidation Workshop held in Banjul, August 28-September 1, 1989. The
recommendations of the workshop were published in a report 1/, which
outlines action plans, responsibilities and implementation schedules, and
as such have been considered as part of the appraisal. During appraisal,
IDA reached agreement with the Government on the project objectives and
scope, including on some modification of the strategy and design of the
skills development component in order to reach the intended women
beneficiaries; the scheduling of that component has therefore been phased
with the start-up phase of the project.
4.03      Timetables of project activities are shown in Annex 4-1.  They
will be reviewed and revised as necessary by the various component
coordinators or managers in consultation with the PMU (para 3.49) once
their staff are in place.
4.04      The funds provided under the PPF are for:
(a) Establishment of the PMU, including the employment of a Project
Manager, a Deputy Project Manager and a Project Accountant, and
the services of a specialist for the procurement of goods (para
3.49); and offices for the Agricultural and IEC Coordinators
(paras 3.15 and 3.33);
(b) Preparation of a detailed proposal for making funds available
for use by NGOs under the Fund component (para 3.48);
lllmplementation Coordination for the WID Project -- Results and
Recommendations of the Consolidation Workshop, 29 August-l September
1989, Banjul, The Gambia (September 1989).



- 33 -
(c) Firming up of the Women's Bureau research program, the
architectural design and preparation of tender documents for the
Bureau's headquarters building (para 3.44); and the undertaking
of baseline and UAP surveys by the Women's Bureau (para 3.45)
and a visual literacy survey by its IEC Unit (para 3.34);
(d) Completion of pilot programs under the agricultural component
(para 3.09), a study on the private sector retailer network
(para 3.10), and preparation of a work plan proposal by GWFC for
savings mobilization (para 3.14);
(e) An evaluation of TBA/MCH services (para 3.25) and a
contraceptive prevalence survey (para 3.28) under the safe
motherhood and FP component; and
(f) Technical assistance in the areas of income-generating
activities, establishment of a credit scheme, and skill training
design, curriculum development and delivery methods under the
skills development component (para 4.18).
B.   Project Coordination and Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.05      The project would be implemented under the overall guidance and
supervision of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), established in
July 1989. The Committee is composed of the Permanent Secretary, Office of
the President, as Chairperson; the Permanent Secretary of MEPID as Vice-
Chairperson; the Permanent Secretaries of the Miinistries of Finance and
Trade, Agriculture, Education, Local Government and Lands, Information and
Tourism, Health, Labor,the Environment and Social Welfare; the Chairperson
of TANGO; the Executive Secretary of the Women's Bureau; and the Project
Manager, who serves as Secretary of the Committee. The PCC would have an
important role in the fields of policy formulation and review, the
expediting of policy decisions, especially of an inter-ministerial nature,
and the resolution of any major implementation problems that may arise.
Specifically, the Committee would approve work programs and budget for each
component, review semiannual and annual progress reports and initiate any
corrective action that may be necessary, appoint and supervise senior
project personnel, and approve individual grants under the Fund component.
The PCC would meet LL least four times a year, but during the first year of
the project it is expected to meet monthly to facilitate project
implementation.
4.06      While implementation responsibility for each project component
rests with the executing ministry or agency, overall management and
coordination of project activities is the responsibility of the Project
Management Unit (PMU), established in the Office of the President (para
3.49). The Permanent Secretary, Office of the President, would oversee the
PMU's activities, which would be oriented toward monitoring, coordination,
and support to the executing ministries and agencies (including interface
between them, the PCC and the cofinancing institutions). The PMU would
consolidate the annual work plans and budgets tor all project components
for submission to the PCC for approval; supervise implementation of the



- 34 -
approved work plans; and have authority, through the PCC, to trigger
corrective action. In addition to its general advisory role, the PMU would
have an important role in ensuring that expenditures correspond to project
activities and that resources acquired for the project are effectively
used. Specifically, the PMU would be responsible for: (a) procurement and
disbursement; (b) maintaining the project accounts and making arrangements
for audits; (c) monitoring semiannual, annual, and other reports that may
be required by the PCC and cofinanciers (the Project Manager would chair
the Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinating Committee (para 3.45); and (d)
administering the proposed Fund (para 3.48). Joint IDA/Goverrment reviews
of project implementation would be carried out on an annual basis. Such
reviews are designed to examine the progress of implementation to-date,
discuss the results of the previous year's work program and agree on the
following year's work program and budget. Donors supporting the project
would be invited to participate in the annual reviews. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that the joint annual review of project
implementation will be held not later than April 30 of each year, on the
basis of appropriate documentation to be prepared by the PMJ.
4.07      The Project Manager would be working full time on the project
and would be assisted by a Deputy Project Manager; the PMU staff would also
include an accountant, an accounts clerk, a secretary and other support
staff (para 3.49). Following advertising for the position, the Government
has appointed as Project Manager the former Secretary of the Women's
Bureau, a Gambian who has demonstrated a strong commitment to the promotion
of the welfare and status of women. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the final terms of reference for the PCC, the Project Manager
and the Deputy Project Manager. The Government also provided assurances
that the PMU positions (including that of a full-time Project Manager) and
those of the Coordinators for the agricultural, skills development, safe
motherhood and FP, and IEC components and of the M&E officer will be filled
at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA. The appointment of the Deputy Project Manager, the
four component Coordinators and the M&E officer would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
4.08      Because most of the project components have sub-components, they
require some form of coordination. For each component, coordination would
also be required at the village and Division level. At the village level,
the critical coordination issue is to avoid that various project
interventions create competing demands on women's limited time. The
starting point for project coordination is therefore the establishment of
annual priorities by the Village Development Committees (VDCs).   At the
Divisional level, coordination of actions in support of women's priorities
is the principal issue and the structure to be used under the project would
be the Divisional Coordinating Committee (DCC), which already exists.
Composed of tecbnical representatives of the relevant line ministries, the
DCC would review the village's priorities and assist them in organizing and
scheduling their activities and in preparing annual budgets.
4.09      The management and coordination arrangements for each project
component would be as follows: (a) The Fund component would be managed by
the PMU under the supervision of the PCC; (b) the component for



- 35 -
strengthening of the Women's Bureau would be managed by the Bureau's
Executive Secretary, with the assistance of the M&E officer and the M&E
Coordinating Committee chaired by the Project Manager; (c) for the
agricultural component there would be a Coordinator and an Agricultural
Component Advisory Committee (ACAC); (d) for the skills development
component there would be a Coordinator and a Management Unit, with the
Department of Community Development (DCD) in the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands as the main implementing agency, and the Department of
Nonformal Education (NFE) in the Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and
Culture as the main participating agency; (e) for the IEC component there
would be ar. internationally recruited IEC Coordinator with a Gambian
counterpart, reporting to the Executive Secretary of the Women's Bureau;
(f) for the safe motherhood component the Head of the MCH Unit in the
Health and Medical Department, Ministry of Health, would be the
coordinator, and for the family planning sub-component GFPA would be the
main participating agency. A Safe Motherhood Component Advisory Committee
(SMAC) would also be established, and would include the NGOs involved in
implementation of the component
4.10      Although there would be variations amoi,g the components, the
main implementing agency or the Coordinator, assisted as the case may be by
a Committee, would generally be responsible for:
(a) Firming up and consolidating detailed work plans and budgets for
the particular component. The plans should specify the
quantified project inputs and outputs of the respective agency,
the target villages, and plans for in-house monitoring and
reporting.
(b) Coordinating timely delivery of inputs to the implementing
agencies.
(c) Monitoring project performance by maintaining contact with the
project implementers, attending workshops and seminars,
undertaking field visits, reviewing and consolidating progress
reports, and liaising with the M&E Unit in the Women's Bureau
for evaluating the impact of the component activities.
(d) Providing mechanisms to promote dialogue among the implementing
agencies at the national level (through the Component Advisory
or Coordinating Comr.ittee), as well as at the regional and local
levels (in coordination with Divisional staff and VDCs).
(e) Preparing semiannual progress reports on the component's overall
progress and, in the light of experience, suggesting any
necessary changes in the component activities. The progress
reports should describe the component's current status, major
activities undertaken during the reporting period, any problems
encountered, and plans for the upcoming quarter; they should
include estimates of the number of beneficiaries assisted, cost
effectiveness, and any social changes (in terms of behavior or
attitudes).



- 36 -
(f) Coordinating implementation of the component with the other
project components.
4.11      There are multiple collaboration requirements among and/or
within Ministries and the various agencies for implementing the project
components and sub-components. Whenever such collaboration requirements
affect entities or units within the same Ministry, as for example in the
case of the agricultural component, it would be the task of the component
Coordinator to ensure that those units work together in a timely and
orderly manner. Whenever the collaboration involves different ministries,
the implementing agencies should enter into cooperative agreements; these
should specify quantified outputs and objectives of the cooperation (to be
used in monitoring and evaluation), personnel and material inputs by each
participating agency, each agency's work plan and timetable of operations,
and respective implementation responsibilities. The signing of cooperative
agreements for the collaboration required under each of the following
components would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures made by
the respective agencies:
-    For the safe motherhood and family planning component: between
the Ministry of Health, Environment, Labor and Social Welfare
(MHELSW) and the Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA); and
-    For the IEC component: between the Women's Bureau on the one
hand, and Radio Gambia, the Book Production and Material
Resources Unit (BPMRU), the Film Unit, the Agricultural
Communication Unit (ACU), the Health Education Unit (HEU) and
the Nonformal Education (NFE) Department on the other hand.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached that, in all the cases
where a formal cooperative agreement is required between a project agency
and a Ministry or government department for the execution of a part or
component of the project as a condition of disbursements for that project
agency, the PMU will not submit any withdrawal application for expenditures
for the whole component unless such an agreement has been signed.
4.12      Monitoring and evaluation would be a continuous activity,
beginning before project start-up and carried out during the entire life of
the project and even beyond. This very important sub-component is
described in detail in Annex 3-5. The system calls for the monitoring of
activities by each implementing agency, which would submit semiannual
progress reports to the component's manager or coordinator, who would in
turn report to the PMU. The M&E Unit of the Women's Bureau would conduct a
baseline survey, a KAP survey, and project services monitoring surveys to
evaluate the actual effects and impact of the WID project on women and
assess its success in enhancing of women's issues and changing attitudes
with regard to the role of Gambian women and the extent to which changes in
traditional practices have taken place. Plans for the progress reporting
system and the impact evaluation program (including indicators for inputs,
outputs, effects and impact) need to be firmed up through a collaborative
effort by the PMU, each component's managing or coordinating unit, the M&E
officer and the M&E Coordinating Committee, once they are fully staffed and
operational.



- 37 -
4.13      For certain activities, specific evaluations and actions would
be undertaken during the project period. In the case of the agricultural
component, the M&E Unit, in collaboration with the implementing agencies,
would undertake at the end of the second project year an assessment of the
impact of the crop extension services and the extent to which women farmers
are being reached by the input retailer network, as well as an evaluation
of the program for improving management of post-harvest equipment (prior to
a decision on contract renewal). External evaluations are also scheduled
after two full years of operations to examine the implementation and
effectiveness of the savings mobilization campaign of the Gambia Women's
Finance Company and to assess the potential for further expansion of the
women's retailer network. Monitoring and evaluation would be of critical
importance in the skills development component. The system would be
refined during project start-up; it would form part of the curriculum for
staff training and include representatives of the various women's groups
involved. In the case of the IEC component, to determine whether the IEC
activities are on course and to ensure program flexibillty, qualitative
surveys are built into most of them; they comprise simple focus group
discussions, supplemented by close contacts with the field, the production
agencies, and the concerned ministries. The surveys are expected to
provide information on, for example, the effectiveness of the management
structure, the timeliness of project interventions, the appropriateness of
the methods used, and the quality of production. Under the Fund component,
any proposal should have a monitoring and evaluation plan that reflects
compatibility with the M&E programs of the project's sectoral components to
which the proposed NGO activity would relate. In the case of the safe
motherhood and PP component, the M&E Unit, in collaboration with the MCH
Unit, would undertake at the end of the project third year an assessment of
the animal-drawn cart scheme before deciding whether to expand it to the
remaining 84 villages. An evaluation of the impact of the new TBA training
program is also scheduled for the fifth year of the project.
4.14      In addition to the above-described monitoring and evaluation
built into the project, the Government, IDA and the cofinancing agencies
would undertake a mid-term evaluation of the progress of project
implementation, including an assessment of whether the strategies being
followed are the correct ones. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that it will undertake a mid-term evaluation of the progress of
project implementation. Also, the Government and IDA would annually review
the achievements and performance of the previous year's work program and
agree on the following year's program and budget (para 4.06).
C.   Implementation of the Project Components
4.15      Many NGOs attach great importance to women's development issues
and are already active in a number of programs of particular interest to
women (para 2.29). During project preparation, the desirability and
modalities of NGO participation in the project have been extensively
studied and discussed. A number of NG0s (such as SCF, GWFC, and GFPA) that
would participate in implementing some of the project components have
already been identified, and the proposed Fund (para 3.47 and 3.48) would



- 38 -
be exclusively for NGOs. Also, the participation of NGOs in the sectoral
components would be considered in light of the extent to which they have a
comparative advantage for certain activities. A consultant's report
(August 1989) on NGO participation includes suggestions on possible
modalities of such participation. At the time of appraisal, although the
Government had not yet taken a decision on the consultant's
recommendations, work had started on preparing a statement of policy
regarding NGO participation and drafting a standard contract between the
Government and participating NGOs. The draft statement of policy indicates
that it is the Government's declared intention to carry out its development
policy in collaboration with NGOs that have expressed interest in providing
assistance in their particular field of competence and within their
technical and financial capabilities. The progress of that work was
reviewed during negotiations. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
the adoption of (aj a statement of government policy regarding NGO
participation satisfa;tory to IDA, and (b) a satisfactory form of a
standard contract between the Government and participating NGOs.
4.16      Most of the project components include allowances for training,
both on-the-job training inside The Gambia and training abroad. Experience
has shown that key staff of ministries and agencies have sometimes been
sent abroad for somewhat long periods of training without adequate
arrangements being made for their replacement. To avoid a situation where
facilities provided under the project could no, be properly used for lack
of essential staff, IDA should review in adva- :e and approve the project-
financed training programs for key staff. r ing negotiations the
Government gave assurances that IDA will have an opportunity to review in
advance and to approve the training program for key staff under the WID
project.
4.17      It is assumed that the IDA credit will be effective and the
project will start in October 1990. Timetables of activities for most of
the project components are shown in Annex 4-1 (para 4.03). A project
launch seminar would be held before project start-up to ensure that all
Gambian parties to the project are fully aware of their role in
implementation. In agriculture, the sub-components to be implemented by
government departments (DAS, DASIHEP, DASIFNU, and DLS) are ready for
implementation, but timely start of the activities would be dependent upon
availability of inputs, such as vehicles and office equipment, particularly
for those agencies presently not adequately equipped (e.g. HEP and FNU) and
the contractors. The NGO included in the agricultural component, GWFC, has
been asked to present detailed work plans and budgets, on the basis of
which the Government would negotiate a contract with it. Similar
procedures should be followed with the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) in
its request for institutional support. A search is underway for a
competent NGO or private sector organization to implement the post harvest
equipment sub-component. Results of the study on the women's retailer
network should be available soon to allow for timely implementation with
the project start-up; otherwise, transitional arrangements will have to be
made. For the food storage, preservation and nutrition extension sub-
component, as soon as possible FNU should enter into a cooperative
agreement with an established food and nutrition institute that would
provide technical assistance for FNU.



- 39 -
4.18      For the skills development component, financing has been
provided under the PPF for an initial period to provide technical
assistance for the development of income-generating activities,
establishment of a credit scheme, and training program design. Recruitment
of the technical assistants and appointment of their Gambian counterparts
should take place as soon as possible.
4.19      For the safe motherhood and PP component, a consultant for
designing the TBA/MCH evaluation is expected to be recruited soon, and
funds have been provided under the PPF to start the exercise. The results
of the evaluation should be available by the end of 1990, to be
incorporated into the TBA training program. Timely and successful
implementation of the PP sub-component is contingent upon the Ministry of
Health and GFPA agreeing on a program of activities to undertake jointly.
A technical committee has been set up, composed of staff of the Ministry of
Health and GFPA, to formulate a new memorandum of understanding between the
two agencies, which would include an action plan for activities that the
Ministry and GFPA would undertake either jointly or ir cooperation. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that the PMU will not submit any
withdrawal applications to IDA for expenditures for the safe motherhood and
FP component unless such a memorandum of understanding has been signed. To
assist GFPA and the Ministry of Health in implementing the FP sub-
component, a launch workshop would be organized in Banjul.
4.20      For the IEC component, a coordinator and a Gambian counterpart
should be appointed as soon as possible to assist the concerned line
Ministries in preparing detailed work plans. Preparations should then be
made to begin the visual literacy survey, as it is essential to the
development of much of the print materials scheduled for production. The
survey should be extensive and take into account such variables as language
groups, distance from Banjul, and access to other media. Besides gathering
data on visual literacy, the survey would undertake a micro-communication
assessment. The study tour to Niger (para 3.40) headed by the IEC
Coordinator should also take place as soon as possible, as the tour would
enable the visiting team to observe any problems encountered in that
country with solar-video equipment or with program production, as well as
success factors. The IEC Coordinator should also review the electronic
equipment needs of the project, in coordination with Radio Gambia and the
Film Unit, so that orders may be placed as soon as possible.
4.21      Regarding the component for strengthening of the Women's Bureau,
the most urgent actions to be taken prior to project start-up are the
employment of an internationally recruited consultant to firm up the
Bureau's research program and the carrying out of the baseline and KAP
surveys, for which financing is available under the PPF. The M&E Unit and
the M&E Committee should be established and staffed as soon as possible to
finalize the monitoring system. Following completion of the baseline and
KAP surveys, a one-week workshop should be held to present their findings,
as well as clear up any outstanding issues in the design of the monitoring
system and start planning the first project services monitoring surveys.



- 40 -
4.22      With regard to the Fund component, financing has been made
available under the PPF to finalize details on the procedures and operation
of the proposed Fund.
D. Environmental Impact
4.23      The WID project is expected to have a beneficial impact on the
environment. Women are in the forefront of the struggle with the harsh
environment in The Gambia: they most often are the ones who have to find
and carry fuelvood and potable water, ensure the family's food supply, and
care for the children.
4.24      The project would contribute to improving environmental
management through four of its components. The agricultural component
would provide support for improved cultivation of field crops, livestock
management, horticulture and other agriculture-related activities, which
are of critical importance in improving land management. The family
planning sub-component addresses another major environmental issue -- the
country's rapidly increasing population, whose food supply has to be
obtained from a constant land base. The FP programs would have an impact
by helping to bring about a reduction of the population growth rate over
the long term. The need to improve the skills of rural women, along with
their understanding of environmental issues and constraints, would be
addressed through the skills development component, in whose training
programs water conservation and use and household energy concerns can be
included. The IEC component would also make a significant contribution to
enhancing awareness and improving understanding of environmental issues.
Through all the IEC activities, environment-related topics and information
on techniques for managing the environment can be disseminated. Women have
a major role in managing the Gambian environment, and the WID project would
reinforce and support that role.
E.   Specialist Services
4.25      Consultants for the WID project would be selected in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA, to provide various forms of technical
assistance in a number of areas. The specialist services required would
total about 337 person-months, of which about 180 would be for locally
recruited specialists. This would include individual consultants and NGOs
active in the country.
4.26      The NGOs would either act as executing agencies or assist line
Ministries and agencies in fulfilling their implementation
responsibilities. International specialist services would include: the
services of an IEC Coordinator for the Women's Bureau (36 person-months); a
maintenance/repair engineer for overseeing the IEC equipment (24 person-
moaths); a number of short-term specialists to work with the Food and
Nutrition Unit (FNU) of the Ministry of Agriculture in developing a
strategy and work plan, preparing training materials, and training FNVT
staff in food storage and processing techniques (total of about 9 person-



- 41 -
months); a monitoring and evaluation specialist and a researcher for the
Women's Bureau (total of 6 person-months); credit, training, and small
business specialists for the skills development component (57 person-
months); audit and procurement specialists for the Project Management Unit
(total of about 13 person-months); and a number of short-term consultants
to assist the Gambian staff in organizing workshops and conducting
quantitative and qualitative surveys.
F. Procurement
4.27      The following table shows the procurement arrangements by
category of expenditure:



- 42 -
Procurement Method by Cateaory of Expenditure
(USV millIon)
Amount. and Methods of Procurement
(USS millon including Contingencies)
Total
No.       Category of expenditure            ICU       LCB     Other        N/A       Cost
1.  Civil Work. Contracts                   -         0.88      -          0.87 /a    0.09
(Port E only)                           -        (0.29)     -          (t-) /a   (0.29)
2.  Research and Evaluation                 -         -         -          0.43 /b    0.43
(Excluding Parts B, C, F and G)        -          -         -         (0.18)     (0.18)
8.  Credit and Fund
a.  Credit                              -         -         -          1.60/c     1.50
(Part A only)                           -         -         _         (0.78)     (0.78)
b.  Fund                                -         -         -         (0.60)     (0O60)
'Part B only)                          -          -         -         (0.0)      (0.50)
4. Goods
a. Equipment and furniture              -         0.18      -          0.88 /d    0.61
(Excluding Parts B, C and C)            -        (0.1S)     -          t)        (0.13)
b. Vehicles                             0.88      -                   0.70 /e    1.03
(Excluding Parts B, C, and G)          (0.33)     -         -          (--)      (0,33)
c. Materials                            0.88      -         -          0.67 /f    1.60
(Excluding Parts B, C, and 0)          (0.63)     -         -          (--)      (0.88)
5. Specialist Services
a. Local Specialiate                    -         -         -          0.12 /9    0.12
(Excluding Parts 8, C  and 0)          -          -         -          (..)       0.00
b. International Spec!aliats            -         -         1.40       0.78 /h    2.18
(Excluding Parts B, C, and G)          -          -        (1.40)      t-)       (1.40)
6. Training
a. Local Training                       -         -         0.20       1.08 /i    1.28
(Excluding Parts B, C, and 0)          -          -        (0.20)      C )       (0.20)
b. Fellowships                          -         -         0.49       0.02/J    0.61
(Excluding Parts B, C, and 0)          -          -        (0.49)      -)        (0.49)
7.  Operating Costs
a. Incremental Operating Costs          -         -         0.66       1.24 /k    1.89
(Excluding Parts B  C  and 0)          -          -        (0.60)      t)        (0.60)
b. Incremental Staff                    -         -         -          1.48 /I   1.48
-_                  -          S- )       (--)
c. Media Production b Miscellaneous    -          -         -          0.82 /m    0.82
(Part D only)                          -          -         -         (0.20)     (0.20)
8.  Project Preparation Facility                 -         -               1.16       1.18
- _       _-                  (1.18)     (1.18)
Total Costs                             1.16      0.46      2.74      10.70      15.08
Total Financed by the IDA credit       (1.16)    (0.42)    (2.69)    (2.82)      (7.00)
W_ =-==                         ====
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respoctive amounts financed by the IDA credit.
The following capital letters show the project components:
Part A: Agriculture                                     Part D  IEC
Part B: Skills Development                              Part E: Women's Bureau
Part C: Safe Motherhood & F.P.                          Part F: P.M.U.
Part C: The Fund
Footnotes with small letters lndlcate amounts financed by other donors and procured
under their procedures:
(a) US8O.87                         (b) US80.25          (c) US80.78
(d) US8O.38                         te) USSO.70          (f) US80.67
(9) US8O.12                        th) US8O.72           (i) US81.08
tJ) US8O.02                        (k) US81.24          (t) US81.08
(m) US8O.04
-Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.



- 43 -
4.28      Contracts for goods, including equipment -- educational
(teaching materials, booklets, video-tapes), electrical (cold chain, radio
antennas, household equipment), transportation (4-WD vehicles and
motorcycles), and miscellaneous (tools, household appliances) -- totalling
US$1.2 million equivalent, representing about 90? of the total value of
contracts for goods financed by IDA, would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985) and
would be grouped, to the extent practicable, into bid packages of at least
US$100,000 each. Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of
15?, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f.
prices of competing goods would be given to domestic manufacturers in
accordance with IDA's guidelines.
4.29      For the remaining 102 of the total value of goods and for all
civil works contracts financed by IDA, totalling US$0.4 million, about
three packages would be suitable for procurement other than ICB. The
exceptions to ICB procurement would be for (a) contracts for goods (limited
to cffice supplies and furniture) estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$0.1 million;
and (b) a contract for construction of the headquarters for the Women's
Bureau, which would not exceed US$0.3 million. These items, which are not
expected to attract foreign bidders because of their small size, would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally (LCB) in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that (a) the
aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$0.5 million
equivalent; (b) pre-qualification is required for the civil works contract;
(c) the conditions under which pre-qualification takes place, as well as
the methods and criteria used, are acceptable to IDA; (d) the tenders are
advertised locally and bidders are allowed a minimum of 45 days to submit
bids; (e) all bids are opened in public; (f) evaluation criteria are
specified with sufficient clarity -- price, capability to perform, adequacy
of equipment and personnel, and financial capacity; (g) eligible foreign
firms not incorporated in The Gambia are allowed to participate in the
bidding; and (h) draft standard bidding documents have been reviewed and
approved by IDA prior to approval and signing of the first contract.
4.30      Incrimental operating costb (including spare parts, office
supplies, repairs and consumables) which cannot be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$20,000 equivalent would be procured through prudent
international and/or local shopping on the basis of price quotations
obtained from at least three reliable suppliers to ensure competitive
prices, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not
exceed US$0.6 million equivalent and the procedures applied are acceptable
to IDA. Limited international bidding (LIB) by direct invitation without
open advertisement, which could be an appropriate method of procurement in
cases where the amounts are small and there are a limited number of
suppliers of the particular item, would be subject to prior IDA approval on
a case-by-case basis. Procurement from UNICEF, or through an NGO would be
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA including procedures
requiring goods to be purchased at a reasonable price.



- 44 -
4.31      For contracts for goods estimated at more than US$100,000
equivalent each, the bidding documents and proposed contract awards would
be reviewed by IDA prior to decision on the final awards. It is estimated
that this review would cover about 85Z of the total value of the amount
contracted for goods and works financed by IDA. For goods and civil works
contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 each, representing about 152 of
the value of these contracts, all procurement decisions would be subject to
IDA's selective post-award review.
4.32      Consultants (para 4.25) and training financed by IDA, totalling
US$2.2 million eciuivalent, would be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
4.33      The Government has decided to seek the assistance of a
procurement specialist to advise on procurement and prepare bidding
documents. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will
apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above.
G.   Disbursements
4.34      Because the WID project is the first of its kind, there is no
sector disbursement profile that could be used as a reference. The IDA
credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years. The
estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 4-2.
4.35      The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of categories
shown below.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of                    Proposed IDA         Z of Expenditures
Expenditure                    Allocation           Financed by
(US$ million)       IDA
Civil Works                          0.3                  90Z
Furniture and Equipment             0.1                 100X
Vehicles and Materials               1.0                 1002
Farm Inputs Credit                   0.5                 100Z
Fund                                 0.5                100Z
Training                             0.6                 100Z
Specialist Services                 1.4                 100Z
Operating Costs                      0.5                  80Z
Refinancing of PPF                   1.2                 1002
Unallocated                          0.9 
Total                 7.0



- 45 -
4.36      Special Account.  To expedite project implementation, a Special
Account denominited in US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank of
The Gambia in Banjul to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$400,000,
representing anticipated eligible emenditures for four months. IDA would
make an initial deposit of that amount from the proposed credit immediately
upon credit effectiveness. Replenishment of the Special Account would be
made on the basis of full documentation except for expenditures valued at
less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Replenishment requests should be submitted monthly
provided that the amount is for a minimum of US$50,000. All IDA
expenditures of less than US$20,000 would be financed from the Special
Account; the same limit would apply to requests for direct payment. The
documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the PMU for
review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular semiannual
audits.
H.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.38      The PMU would maintain the project accounts, which should
aggregate expenditures incurred for each project component. With financing
provided under the PPF, the PHU has already employed an accountant, whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA. The PMU would
submit to IDA: (a) semiannual progress reports on project implementation,
(b) annual financial statements on project expenditures, (c) annual work
programs and budgets (as approved by the PCC) for the following year; and
(d) a project completion report within nine months of the credit closing
date. Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under
SOEs would be audited semiannually. The audit reports would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. During
negotiations an understanding was reached that the Government will appoint
independent auditors as soon as possible to assist the PMU in setting up a
system of accounts, including for the proposed Fund.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      Women all over The Gambia, particularly those living in rural
areas, would benefit from the institutional strengthening of organizations
dealing directly with women's issues (i.e., the Women's Bureau, the
Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, and Local Government). The
project would help improve these institutions' responsiveness to women's
needs and create a greater awareness about women's development issues among
policy-makers; this would contribute to better sectoral project design over
the long term. The project coordination efforts would improve inter-
agency cooperation and harmonization of existing women's programs. A
number of project activities would be targeted to women in 200 selected
villages, with a population of direct beneficiaries estimated at 50,000.



- 46 -
Rural women nationwide are expected to benefit from the improved extension
services and the private farm input distribution network. Equally, the
family planning program would benefit both rural and urban women. The
entire community, especially children, would benefit from women's improved
health and education. Over the long term, women's enhanced role in the
country's development effort would contribute to better overall economic
performance and to poverty reduction.
B. Risks
5.02      The risks involve primarily (a) the difficulties in changing
society's perception of the role of women and the attitudes of civil
servants dealing with women's issues; (b) IDA's and the Government's lack
of experience in preparing and implementing a project of this nature; and
(c) the difficulty of implementing a project with a multi-sectoral
approach. Nevertheless, the Government's strong commitment to implementing
a VID project, the large-scale involvement of local professionals in
project preparation, and the planned full-scale IEC campaign included in
the project design are expected to provide a favorable climate for
successful implementation. By involving experienced NGOs, together with
technical assistance, the risk of unsatisfactory implementation would be
reduced.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Government and IDA reviewed and agreed
on:
(a) The list of the 200 project villages (para 3.05); and
(b)  The final terms of reference for the Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC), the Project Manager and the Deputy Project
Manager (para 4.07).
6.02      During negotiations, the Government gave the following
assurances:
(a) The Government will increase the percentage of contact farmers
who are women to 102, 15?, 20?, 25S and 302 by June 30, 1991,
1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively, and will increase the
percentage of block demonstration participants who are women to
15?, 202, 25?, 30S and 352, respectively, by the same dates
(para 3.07);
(b) The Government will prepare and transmit to IDA by December 31,
1990, for discussion a national strategy paper, including
strategy at the divisional level, aimed at increasing the impact
of its agricultural extension program on women and ensuring
achievement of the above-described percentage increases in the



- 47 -
number of women contact farmers and women block demonstration
participants (para 3.07);
(c) The Government will make available to the participating NGOs
portions of the amount allocated to the Fund, under agreements
to be entered into between the Government and the NGOs on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.48);
(d) IDA will have the right to review and approve (i) the first
three proposals of NGOs for any particular activity (credit,
well-digging, etc.) regardless of the amount involved; and (ii)
any proposal in excess of US$40,000 equivalent (para 3.48);
(e) The joint annual review of project implementation will be held
not later than April 30 of each year, on the basis of
appropriate documentation to be prepared by the Project
Management Unit (para 4.06);
(f) PMU positions (including that of a full-time Project Manager)
and those of the Coordinators for the agricultural, skills
development, safe motherhood and FP, and IEC components and of
the M&E officer wi'.l be filled at all. times with personnel whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA (para
4.07);
(g) The Government will undertake a mid-term evaluation of the
progress of project implementation (para 4.14);
(h) IDA will have an opportunity to review in advance and approve
training programs for key staff under the WID project (para
4.16); and
(i) The procurement procedures and arrangements agreed during
negotiations will be applied during project implementation (para
4.33).
6.03      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Submission to IDA of details, satisfactory to IDA, on the
management and administration of the Fund for small projects and
programs, including the eligibility criteria (para 3.48);
(b) Appointment of the Deputy Project Manager, the four component
Coordinators, and the M&E officer (para 4.07); and
(c) Adoption of (i) a statement of government policy regarding NGO
participation, satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) a satisfactory form
of a standard contract between the Government and participating
NGOs (paza 4.15).
6.04      The signing of cooperative agreements for the collaboration
required under each of the following components would be a condition of



- 48 -
disbursement for expenditures made by the respective project agencies (para
4.11):
(a)  For the safe motherhood and family planning component: between
the Ministry of Health, Environment, Labor and Social Welfare
(M4ELSW) and Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA); and
(b)  For the IEC component: between the Women's Bureau on the one
hand, and Radio Gambia, the Book Production and Material
Resources Unit (BPMRU), the Film Unit, and the Agricultural
Communication Unit (ACU), the Health Education Unit (HEU) and
the Nonformal Education (NFE) Department on the other hand.
6.05      Recommendation.  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.0 million
equivalent to the Republic of The Gambia on standard IDA terms, with 40
years' maturity.



- 49 -
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA                                    ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 2
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1988 Social Indicator nata Sheet              Reference Groups (MNE)
Moot
Recent                     Lower mid
1965        1975    Estimate   LOw- I COmO        income
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)        11.3        11.3        11.3
Agricultural (% of total)           31.9        35.8       22.1
ClP PER CAPITA (current USO)           100         220         220         280         730
POPULATtN AND VtTAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)             403          533        797
Urban pop. (% of total.)                          19          35          28          38
Population growth rato(%):
Total                                         2.8         3.8          1.9        2.S
Urban                                                      7.2        5.7          4.2
Llfe expect. at birth (yrs)           34          38          43          61          59
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                      i 142
Stationary pop. (thou)                                  3.143
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                 112         132         300         349         404
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                            44          45          43          37          42
i5-64 yre                          53          52          55          Gs          59
as and above                         3           3           2           4           3
Crude birth rate (per thou)           50          49          49          30          35
Crudo death rate (per thou)           30          26          22          10          10
Total fertility rate                 6.5         6.5         6.9         3.9         4.7
Infant mort. rate (per thou)         199         172         160          72          76
Child doeth rate (per thou)           53          so          45           9          II
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)                         2
Users (% of married women)                       1
FOOD HEALTH AND KUTRITION
Indox of food production per
capita (1979-1 * 100)               156         154         136          115        106
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)              2.194       2.108       2.252       2.327        2.507
Proteins (grams per day)            53          54          52          5o          56
Pop, per physician (thou)                       24.6        11.6         5.8         7.5
Pop, per nurse (thou)               17          2.2                     4.0
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)                                 0.6         1.1         1.t
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                       12          45
Urban                     97         1CO
Rural                      3          33
Population Growth              Infant Mortality         Primary School Enrollment
cs  n. u u
f     ,                            2e 60F 
0 eRlL : ::S 3 L ;:]~60 
iO5S-l  100-SI           6 0    t970    1980          1060    1010    860
-lU OSAUSI. tlt                                    :1  t 9 
X FlAIl REF OSOUP                                       i   f !Q



50 -                                 ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 2
1988 Social Indicator Data Sheet
Reference Groups (MRE)
most
Recent                    Lower mid
1965       1975    Estimate   Low-income        income
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)           216        263         312
Female (%)                        43         43          41         34          29
Agriculture (X)                   88         85          84         66         5S
Industry (%)                       5          6           7         14          16
Participation rate (%)
Total                             82         s0          48         47          37
Ma1e                              60         59          57         58          51
Female                            43         42          39         35          23
Age dependency (%)                88.4       90.7        82.4       71.6        82.7
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                         8
Urban                                         6
Rural                                         9
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural
EDtCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    21         33          75         99         104
male                     29         44          92        110         109
Female                   12         21         S8          87         99
Secondary: Total                   6          10         20         34          42
Male                   8          Is         29          41         47
Female                 4           5          12         25         36
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           39         26          23         39          31
Secondary                         22          19         17                     23
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                    96          92                     72
INCOME. CONSUUPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                         40          78        327         351
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%
Lowest 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural                                        98
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban
Rural                                        40
Passenger cars/thou pOp.           3.0         2.8        3.2
'Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)                                 2.8       32.0        43.5
IECSE August 1988
not oolobo. Neto Mt m_et etialte of po4ltlen eand GNPt por ps am for 106? unleW" otbeiwse noted.
Gteup evrm  ato pe_vlatl weited. Csunt, coverageo deperds on dat availability VW It tet iform. Unle otebse noted
100t mfesr to a  ear betee Iand toOI 1915 betwe 107 end I975 ad m1a r  t emstimte between 10 ed 1961.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   Implementation Coordination for the WID Project, Results and
Recommendations of the Consolidation Workshop, 29 August -
1 September, 1989, Banjul, The Gambia, September 1989.
2.   Proposal for the Strengthening of The Gambia Women's Bureau Within
the Framework of the Women in Development Project, by Julia Joiner
Ebou Jobarteh.
3.   The Women's Development Project in The Gambia, Report of UNIFEM's
Participation in the Pre-Appraisal Mission, April 3-18, 1989, by
Elizabeth Lwanga-Okwenje.
4.  Gambia Consultancy - Government/NGO Relations, by John T. Rigby,
August 13, 1989.
5.   Study on the Legal Status of Women, conducted by Mrs. Amie Bensouda,
Mrs. Joanna Mbye, and Mrs. Aminata Ngum, 1989.
6.   The Gambia - Skills Development Project for Rural Women, by the
African Development Fund, March 1990.
7.   Project Proposal for the Skills Development Component, Consultants
on Women and Development, by Carine du Marchie Sarvaas, March, 1989.
8.   Monitoring and Evaluation Component, by The Women's Bureau and ITAD
Ltd., August 30, 1989.
9.   Media Assessment Survey Draft Report, Ministry of Economic Planning
and Industrial Development, by Mr. Fallu Njie, Ms. Amie Gaye, and
Ms. Victoria Savage, Banjul, April 1989.
10. A Situation Analysis of Women in The Gambia, Background Paper,
African Sahelian Department, Population and Human Resources
Operations, The World Bank, by Jacqueline Novogratz, June 1989.
11. Skills Component, Pre-Appraisal, The Gambia, Consultants on Women
and Development, by Carine du Marchie Sarvaas, The Netherlands,
April 1989.
12. Proposal for the Safe Motherhood Component of The Gambian Women in
Development Project, for The World Bank, submitted by Planning
Assistance, March 1989.



- 52 -                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 2
13.  The Gambiat  Women in Development Project, Agricultural Component,
A Consultancy Carried our in Collaboration with the Government of
The Gambia. by Duncan Bo%tghton and Jacqueline Novogratz, August 18,
1989.
14. Local Evacuation Study, June 1988.
15. Telecommunication Study, September 1988.
16. Current Family Planning Delivery Strategy, Medical and Health
Department, Ministry of Health, January 1989.
17. Report on the Existing Family Planning Service Delivery Strategies,
The GAmbia Family Planning Association, January 1989.
18. Report of the Safe Motherhood Task Force, March 1989.
19. Report of the Agricultural Task Force, March, 1989.
20. Report of the Skills Development Task Force, March 1989.
21.  Report of the ZEC Task Force, March 1989.
22. NGO in The Gambia, Sector Survey, by E. Bazalgette, 1988.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN GAMBIAN SOCIETY
A. Current Status
1.        Women comprise 44Z of the total labor force in The Gambia and
30-50S of the agricultural labor force, and are responsible for about 4OZ
of total agricultural production. They contribute substantially to the
production of both food and cash crops. In addition, they spend long hours
every day processing and preparing food and supplying most of the basic
needs of their familiest child rearing, health care, clothing, shelter,
water, and fuel. All these activities keep women busy up to 16 hours a day.
This substantial contribution to the country's economy has thus far gone
largely unnoticed because it is unpaid. Data on health, nutrition,
education, and economic performance indicate that the status of Gambian
women remains low and inferior to that of men.
2.        The high maternal mortality rate of 10 per 1,000 live births,
among the highest in the world, is not only a tragedy for the women
concerned, but also for their families because of women's role as food
producers and overall providers for their families. Studies conducted in
The Gambia have shown that young children whose mothers die often do not
survive. Because of too frequent pregnancies, insufficient caloric intake,
and their heavy workload, women in rural areas also suffer from under-
nutrition, as evidenced in the high proportion of low birthweight babies
(as high as 23-24Z in some rural areas). In a developed country the death
of an infant is usually an accident; In the developing world, it is a
process begun with the mother before its birth.
3.        Nationwide, the female literacy rate is much lower than the
literacy rate for men. As in most of the other African countries, boys
outnumber girls in the primary schools by a factor of 3 to 2; in the more
remote rural areas, enrollment of girls is even lower (about 30Z in the
Lower River Division). The dropout rate for girls is likewise much higher
than for boys. Women who have more education work in Government, health
care, and teaching, but their number remains very small. Few women hold
leadership positions in The Gambia. For instance, there are no women
agriculturalists at the senior level in the Ministry of Agriculture,
although some trained women nutritionists have posts in the Ministry's Food
and Nutrition Unit.
4.        In sum, poor health, limited education, and inadequate access to
productive resources and basic social services lock Gambian women into a
high fertility/low productivity pattern which in the end damages the well-
being of their families and that of the entire community.



-54-                             ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 8
B. Airiculture
5.        The Gambian farming system is rixaracterized by a fairly complex
and diverse gender division of responsibilities and resources within the
extended, polygamous family households, which have an average size of 15
persons. Both men and women are expected to produce food for household
consumption (maruo crop). This is usually done collectively under the
responsibility of the male household head in case of upland cereals or a
senior woman in case of swamp-rice production. In addition, both men and
women have the right to grow crops individually for their own use
(kamanvanto crops), a large share of which is sold. The income from these
sales is maintained separately. Gambians greatly value their personal
crops, from which they meet a range of expenditures. In addition to
personal outlays, men are expected to use their income for purchasing food
to cover household shortages, for payments of compound taxes, and for
construction and housing maintenance. Men often invest their surplus
income in cattle, draft animals, and agricultural inputs. Women are
expected to contribute food, particularly condiments, for the family and to
meet their personal needs and those of their children, including health
care, school fees, and clothing. Women prefer to use their savings for
investments in small ruminants and personal ornaments.
6.        Women play a prominent role in the Gambian farming system.
Depending on village location, they provide between 302 and 50 of
agricultural labor, and more than half of women of working age cultivate
their own kamanyanao fields. For instance, women are practically the sole
producers of swamp and tidal rice, horticultural crops, and lately, sesame.
But gender-specific responsibilities for certain crops and agricultural
activities vary widely in the Gambian farming system, depending among other
factors on location, ethnicity, and farm mechanization level. In villages
with access to lowland swamps along the river (lowland villages'),
particularly Mfandinka villages in the western and central areas of the
country, women traditionally cultivate swamp rice as a subsistence and cash
crop, although recently women in those areas also embarked on groundnut and
horticultural production. Men in these villages focus on cereal production
(millet, maize, sorghum) for household consumption and groundnuts for cash
income. The introduction of rice irrigation schemes in some parts of the
country during the 1970s and early 1980s induced men to shift to rice
production in the villages concerned, but this trend has been reversed due
to the continuous deterioration of these systems. In contrast, in the
upland villages, which rely exclusively on rain-fed upland crops (upland
cereals, groundnuts, cotton), situated along the border to Senegal and in
the eastern part of the country, both men and women grow groundnuts, cotton
and some sesame as individual (kamanvango) crops. Household food
production (maruo) in these villages is largely the responsibility of the
household head and other males. Women engage mainly in the tedious
domestic threshing and processing of these food crops.



- 55 -                           ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 8
7.        In general, female and male agricultural activities are more
separated in the lowland villages, where mutual assistance between men and
women is less common and where women usually spend more time on farming
than in the upland villages. Women in the upland villages, on the other
hand, tend to be more integrated into men's farming activities. There is a
considerable amount of labor exchange in upland crops: men often assist
women with the heavier tasks of land clearing and lifting of groundnuts,
and wherever animal traction is used (ploughing, planting, weeding).
Women, in turn, provide labor for harvesting and sometimes for weeding. In
general, no payments are made for work on communal fields, but farmers
often pay each other in cash or kind for assistance on individual fields.
In addition to crop and horticultural production, women own and manage a
large proportion of the country's sheep, goat and poultry stock.
8.        To improve the productivity of their agricultural work, women
require the usual resources--inputs, technology and information--but they
are highly constrained in their access to them. The overall lack of timely
availability of inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, is a major
obstacle to increasing women's productivity. This is a problem that
affects all farmers, but men usually have priority access through the
Cooperative system, which is presently the major input distributor and only
source of institutional agricultural credit in rural Gambia. Less than 1O0
of the 110,000 members of the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) are women;
the fact that GCU has been mainly involved in the marketing of groundnuts,
a male dominated crop, partly explains women's low membership in the Union.
Virtually excluded from the formal credit system, most rural women borrow
and save in the informal sector--i.e., from friends and relatives or
through local women's groups who pool their money and then distribute it
for consumption or investment purposes. This rotating fund, called osusu,
is normally used by one group member at a time and provides only limited
funds for its members. It also cannot accommodate all the members' needs
at the same time (e.g., for buying farm inputs at the beginning of the
planting season).
9.        GCU also provides loans for agricultural implements, a major
factor in improving agricultural productivity in The Gambia. Women's
limited access to these loans has thus far restricted their benefiting from
agricultural mechanization, although 702 of Gambi-an farm households have
access to animal traction and women's upland fields often are mechanically
cultivated by their husbands or sons. But men, as the owners, have
priority in the use of agricultural implements, and timely task performance
has a critical impact on yields and consequently on overall productivity.
Moreover, women in the lowland villages rarely can make use of these
implements on their swamp-rice fields, since machines either may not be
appropriate or constraints in timing do not permit their simultaneous use
on upland and lowland fields. Women often are constrained by traditional
land rights. In principle, women, as do men, acquire land by clearing it
nd their right to land is recognized; in practice, however, they often are
prevented from enjoying this right. Traditional law favors compound and
village ward rights to land over individual rights; therefore, the
assignment of land to individuals often lies in the hands of the male
compound head or the village elders. Women may end up with land of
inferior quality or may even be driven off their traditionally held land.
This was, for instance, the case in irrigated rice projects during the



- 56 -                          ANNEX 2-A
Page 4 of 8
1970s, when technical assistance was directed mainly at men and women
frequently lost control over fields they had previously cultivated.
10.       Women's access to information on agricultural innovations or
techniques is also more limited than men's, because extension services and
agricultural research have been mainly oriented towards the predomiuantly
male cash and export crops. The IDA-supported Second Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 1476-GM) is presently adapting the Training and
Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension to the Gambian situation;
however, women constitute only 4-5 of the 4,100 'contact farmers' because
the contact farmer selection criteria include literacy and very few rural
women are literate. Given women's disadvantages in access to inputs and
technology, it does not come as a surprise that studies undertaken in The
Gambia show that women's productivity level is, on average, 351 inferior to
that of men. While part of this productivity gap certainly can be
explained by the heavy domestic workload and frequent pregnancies that
limit female labor input in agriculture, experience under the IFAD-assisted
Jahally-Pacharr Rice Project in recent years shows that when Gambian women
are given the necessary inputs their productivity matches that of men. But
this project has also shown that programs focused on women need to
carefully consider intra-household relationships. The Jahally-Pacharr
project was exclusively designed for women farmers. But despite
considerable efforts by the project's planners to improve women's access to
new rice technologies, most women ended up with control over the lower-
yielding technologies; men, on the other hand, took over responsibility for
the highest yielding, pump-irrigated rice technology. Although women still
benefited indirectly from the project through increased household food
security because most rice under male control was grown as 'maruo' crop,
the project clearly failed to improve women's disposable income. This
demonstrates the difficulty of attempts to singlehandedly target women,
even if the crop concerned is a traditional 'women's crop'.
C. Education and Training.
11.       Although The Gambia has considerably expanded its education
system since the 1960s and enrollments of boys and girls have improved over
the years, women still have limited access to education and training
opportunities. Against a total primary school enrollment of 682 in 1982,
female enrollment represented only 381. There are also considerable
regional variations in enrollment, with urban areas showing a greater
female participation in formal education than rural areas. The
representation of girls is even lower at the higher education levels. Boys
outnumber girls nearly 3 to 1 in secondary school and 5 to 1 in secondary
technical school. The Gambia has no university. Severe budgetary cuts under
the structural adjustment program in the past six years have limited the
number of spaces and teachers available to cater to an ever-increasing
number of school-age children. School enrollment declined from 68Z in 1982
to 622 in 1988; there is evidence that girls have been more affected than
boys and that the disparities between them have increased.



- 57 -                           ANNEX 2-1
Page 5 of 8
12.       Even when girls get into school, a number of factors operate
against successful completion and achievements higher dropout rates for
girls than for boys because of competing demands on girls' time, as well as
the high opportunity cost of keeping a girl in schooll early marriage and
pregnancy; negative parental and community attitudes towards the Western
education of girls; and the poor quality of education plus its lack of
relevance to the expected vocation of girls. Limited places in primary
school, the absence of role models, and teacher attitudes toward girls,
scholastic abilities and potential also affect the enrollment of girls,
their performance and desire to continue in school. An additional factor
that contributes to the low educational attainment of girls in The Gambia
is the late age of school entry (eight years), giving girls only a few
years of schooling before puberty and little chance to complete school.
13.       A study has been undertaken to determine the cause of low female
enrollment to help prepare realistic and concrete solutions for
implementation' over the long term. Some of the study's recommendations
would be supported under the proposed Gambia education sector project
appraised in June 1989. The project would support measures such as the
lowering of the entry age for primary school from eight years to seven
initially and later to six yearst the active participation of communities
in the construction of schools close to the village to encourage parents to
enroll girls; new curricula promoting a more positive image of women's
role in society; and priority given to female teachers in training
programs.
14.       Nonformal education could be an alternative means of reaching
the large majority of women in The Gambia who have been unable to attend or
complete formal schooling. Nonformal education programs could provide
basic skills in health, family planning, sanitation, and literacy--all of
crucial importance in improving women's lives.  They could also provide
basic skill training to improve women's productivity, such as in
agriculture and marketing. A number of governmental and non-governmental
agencies offer training in numeracylliteracy and other skills (i.e., soap-
making, vegetable gardening, tye and dye, seed multiplication, batik
making, accounting and record keeping). Although not specifically geared
to women, the programs have placed particular emphasis on upgrading women's
skills. Among the government agencies active in this field, the Department
of Community Development (DCD) has the largest number of skill training
programs. Action Aid is the most active NGO in the sector, accounting for
almost half of the training programs offered. The number of participants
is, however, rather small: 23.284, according to a recent survey,
representing about 102 of the adult rural population. Women far outnumber
men in these programs, showing their desire and need for training; however,
their participation is more irregular than that of men, due to a large
extent to competing household and child care responsibilities (most women
attending skill training programs are in the 20 to 30 age group).
Functional literacy/numeracy programs were introduced in 1982 by the
Department of Nonformal Education of the Ministry of Education. These



- 58 -                           ANNEX 2-1
Page 6 of 8
programs have been severely constrained by a lack of qualified and
experienced trainers and teaching materials. A national literacy campaign
is a stated objective of the Government's educational policy; however, no
implementing strategy has yet been devised.
D. Women's Entrepreneurshin
15.       Women are very active in the informal sector. In urban areas
this includes retail marketing of fresh food, small restaurant services,
textile dying and tailoring for the domestic and tourist markets,
manufacture of tiles, and road transport. In rural areas the activities
are limited to marketing of surplus vegetables and crafts production.
Informal surveys suggest there is considerable scope for increasing women's
income from these enterprises, for example, through improving the product
or service, exploiting economies of scale, and introducing better business
management. In addition, there appears to be a potential for women to
branch out into new areas such as fish processing, large-scale horticulture
production and marketing, and food processing and preservation industries.
16.       People engaged in small business encounter a myriad of problems,
the main ones being finances, markets and access to raw materials.
Commonplace constraints in small-scale enterprises (SSEs) become actual
barriers for women, because of society's negative attitude towards women's
ability, their lack of training and business experience, and their
difficulty in obtaining credit. The bulk of institutional lending has
financed mostly wholesale and retail trade business and groundnut
marketing, in which few women are involved. While some women have received
commercial loans and have a better repayment performance record than men,
very few women participate in the formal financial system, either as savers
or borrowers. Small credit schemes for urban women have been provided by
the Cooperative Thrift and Credit Society, a sub-system of the cooperatives
(a top-down organization with little membership participation), and by the
Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS), established under the Ministry
of Economic Planning and Industrial Development. Both these institutions,
however, are saddled with financial problems due mainly to poor management,
therefore ruling them out (as in the case of GCU) as channels for lending
under the proposed WID project. As the urban sector continues to expand
and formal jobs become more limited, greater attention must be given to
improving productivity in the informal sector, where the majority of self-
employed workers are women.
E. Health and Nutrition Status
17.       Women's health status in The Gambia is among the poorest in the
world, as evidenced by a maternal mortality rate of 10 per 1,000 live
births--more than twice the 4.5 average rate for developing countries (in
some rural areas of the country maternal mortality is as high as 20 per



- 59 -                           ANNEX 21
Page 7 of 8
1,000 live births)--and a high incidence of malnutrition. Besides
affecting their overall productivity and prospects for development, women's
poor health has profound implications for the welfare of the country's
children. The Gambia's infant mortality rate of 125 per 1000 births and
child mortality rate of 292 per 1,000 births are among the highest in Sub-
Saharan Africa.
18.       Post-partum hemorrhage and infections are the leading causes of
maternal mortality, while infant and child mortality are caused mainly by
malaria, diarrhea, and respiratory tract infections. Malnutrition has a
compounding effect on mortality and morbidity, particularly among pregnant
women and children. Medical research conducted in The Gambia has identified
the following main factors influencing the high maternal mortality rate:
inadequate access to antenatal care, absence of an effective early warning
system for high-risk pregnancies, unavailability of transport in an
emergency, and a first referral level that is not adequately equipped in
terms of trained manpower and equipment to deal with high-risk cases.
19.       Considerable improvement in the health delivery system is
expected under the National Health Development Program launched in late
1987 with the support of the World Bank and other donors, including the
Italian, British and Dutch Governments. The program focuses on a) expanding
and strengthening the various referral levels from the health centers to
the hospitals; b) training community health nurses (CHNs) and state
enrolled nurses (SENs); c) improving communications; d) providing an
efficient logistical support system; and e) increasing the availability of
essential drugs. The program is also helping to extend primary health care
(PHC) to the Greater Banjul area, hitherto under-served, and is introducing
cost recovery for drugs and health services to promote more efficient use
of health facilities and shift some of the cost of improved health services
to the beneficiaries.
20.       Malnutrition is widespread in The Gambia; the most severely
affected groups are pregnant and lactating mothers and children between the
ages of 9 and 36 months. The type of malnutrition is predominantly energy
deficiency. There are both regional and seasonal variations in the
incidence of malnutrition, with rural areas more affected than urban areas.
A considerable shortfall in caloric intake in rural areas occurs during the
rainy season, when less food is available. Studies by the Ministry of
Health indicate that rural Gambians consume an average of 2,140 calories
per person per day during the post-harvest season, but only 1,660 calories
during the rainy season; this represents a shortfall in caloric intake of
about 500 calories per person per day. The effect of this "hungry seasona
is exacerbated by the heavy agricultural workload borne by all active
members of the community, including pregnant and lactating women.



ANNEX 2-1
-60 -                          Page 8 of 8
21.       A high fertility rate (6.5) also weakens maternal health and a
woman's ability to provide for her children. The Government has been
supportive of family planning (FP) programs and PP services have been
provided in the country for a number of years, mainly by the private Gambia
Family Planning Association (GFPA), an offshoot of the International
Planned Parenthood Association, through clinics, mobile services and
community-based distributors set up in rural areas. The Ministry of Health
also provides PP services at public health facilities and, at the village
level, through Village Health Workers (VHWs) and Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBAs). Although the program has had some success (the Gambian
contraceptive prevalence is currently estimated at 6.52), it has faced
considerable constraints and problems that have so far impeded wider
acceptance. Among these constraints are the extremely low level of
literacy of the population, particularly women; considerable misconceptions
still entertained about family planning; and the bias toward large
families. Lack of coordination between the Ministry of Health and GFPA can
also be counted among the factors contributing to the limited success of
the Gambian family planning program. The Government is becoming
increasingly concerned about the rapid growch of the population, and public
pronouncements about the need to reduce the current rate of growth have
become more frequent recently. This needs to be followed by an action
program with quantitative targets for FP activities.



- 61 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4GRICULTURAL COMPONENT
A.  Component Obiectives and Sub-components
1.        The main objectives of this component are to (a) increase
women's agricultural productivity; (b) enable women in rural areas to
increase their disposable income; and (c) improve the nutritional status of
women and children. The strategies developed aim to invigorate government
services, animate private initiatives, and stimulate local NGO development.
2.        The agricultural component consists of the following sub-
components:
(a) Strengthening of extension services for women's field crops;
(b) Strengthening of extension services for women's horticulture;
(c)  Strengthening of extension zervices for women's livestock
production;
(d) Promotion of a private sector female input retailer network;
(e) Support for women's Cooperative groups;
(f) Strengthening of food storage, food preservation, and nutrition
extension;
(g) Improvement of the management of small-scale post-harvest
equipment;
(h) A savings mobilization campaign; and
(i) Establishment of an Agricultural Component Coordinator's Office.
B.   Target Villages
3.        Some activities of the agricultural component focus only on
women in the selected WID project villages, while others may expand well
beyond these villages. Some villages may lack the need for a particular
activity, may not be suited to WID project activities, or may already be
served by alternative projects. In particular, WID project activities in
the Upper River Division should be carefully monitored if they are
compatible with the ongoing integrated rural development project in that
area.



- 62 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 13
4.        The number of villages to be served with specific activities in
each project year would be determined before project start-up by the
implementing agencies in their five-year work plans and updated in the
annual work plan and budget proposals. It is suggested that those sub-
components that are innovative or experimental in character should start
off with a few villages should be closely coordinated with the other
participating agencies and with the Agricultural Component Coordinator.
Special aspects concerning the selection of target villages are discussed
by sub-component in Section E below.
C. Summary of Proiect Activities by Sub-component
(1) Extension Services for Women's Field Crops
5.        Prior to the start of the 1991 rainy season, a sensitization
campaign would be carried out in each Division. Its objective would be to
publicize and implement the new policy directive for ensuring that the
extension services give equal emphasis to women's and men's agricultural
staff and women's group leaders and the provision of guidelines for
adaptation of T&V schedules for women's productive activities.
6.        Program planning and evaluation workshops would be implemented
semiannually. These workshops would initially target one District in each
Division, chosen according to its proximity to a female input retailer, and
gradually expand to other Districts. The workshops would evaluate the
previous season's act4rities and plan support for women's horticultural and
rainy season crop production activities. T&V schedules would be developed
taking into account of women's domestic and sociallreligious obligations.
Following each round of semiannual workshops, DAS staff would prepare a
comprehensive report summing up the results of the evaluation and each
Division's proposed program, for circulation to all DACs and the
Agricultural Component Coordinator (as a primary tool for in-house M4E).
7.        An annual national extension workshop for women's agriculture
will be hosted and coordinated by the DAS. The workshop would serve mainly
to provide field extension supervisory staff from all concerned government
and non-government organizations with an opportunity to exchange
information on and coordinate their activities. Awards would be made to
field staff for outstanding achievement. DAS would publish the workshop
proceedings.
8.        A set of extension manuals (for rice production, upland crops,
and horticulture), would be prepared for use by all extension workers,
agricultural teachers and volunteers in The Gambia. The DAS would have
overall responsibility for editing, formatting and publishing the manuals
and for coordinating technical inputs from DAR, FNU, REP, and the FAO
Fertilizer Project Staff. The manuals should be designed so that they can
be easily updated. Each manual's technical crop production information
would be supplemented by sections that specifically address women's socio-
economic and cultural problems in agricultural production. 'Vven women's



- 63 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 13
major involvement in rice and horticultural production it is suggested to
start off with the preparation of manuals for horticulture and rice
production. A detailed work plan and calendar for completion of the
extension manuals -- including the allocation of adequate manpower and
other resources by the participating agencies to this task -- should be
developed as soon as possible.
9.        The Ministry of Agriculture would prepare a detailed strategy
paper on measures to increase the impact of agricultural extension
activities on women farmers. This would include both individual extension
contact, and the use of campaigns and media, at both the national and (at
least) the divisional level. Numerical targets would be specified for
participation of women in extension activities as contact farmers and as
block demonstration farmers. To improve the operational performance of
extension staff by speeding up the maintenance and repair of motorbikes and
vehicles, a revolvina fund for spare Rarts would be set up and operated by
DAS, which would work out the detailed arrangements for the fund in
cooperation with the Agricultural Component Coordinator and the PMU in
project year one.
10.       DAS would be responsible for organizing block demonstrations
specifically designed for women farmers, and orchestrated with the efforts
to improve input availability through the female input retailer network and
women's Cooperative groups.  Quantified targets for the number of block-
demonstrations and women to be reached should be set up in cooperation with
the collaborating institutions (PAO and GCU).
11.       At the end of project year two there would be a comprehensive
evaluation by the M&E Unit of the Women's Bureau in collaboration with DAS,
to assess the outreach of the extension services to women and the extent to
which women farmers are reached by the input retailer network.
12.       The crop extension services would pay special attention to women
in selected WID project villages by concentrating the block demonstrations
and sensitization campaign, as well as the semi-annual program planning and
evaluation workshops, on these villages. Beyond this, women throughout The
Gambia would benefit from the proposed countrywide increase of women
contact farmers under the T&V system.
(2) Extension Services for Women's Horticulture
13.       All VEWs in the Western Division and Subject Matter Specialists
and Training Officers from other Divisions would receive specialized
horticultural training during the first year of the project in two
Integrated Horticultural Development Workshops. In succeeding years this
training would be extended to other Divisions and reinforced through the
semi-annual workshops of DAS. Prior to the start of the project, HEP staff
would develop a training program and materials based on the T&V system. in
collaboration with DAR horticultural research staff. The training
materials developed during the first year would provide the raw material
for a comprehensive horticultural manual (para 16). The VSO training



- 64 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 13
coordinator would liaise with DAS in preparing the manual for final
publication; it would be made avail&ble to all extension workers,
agricultural teachers and volunteers in the country.
14.       Two of the HEP supervisors are to be trained abroad to diploma
level under the WID agricultural component, with only one supervisor to be
away at one time to maintain continuity.
15.       To strengthen horticultural extension services for both
categories of producers, an expanded program of horticultural
demonstrations and trials would be implemented in collaboration with the
Horticultural Extension Program (DAS), the Horticultural Research Program
(DAR) and the Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU). The marketing of
horticultural produce would be facilitated through the development of a
market information system, in collaboration with the FAOIUNDP funded
Horticultural Marketing Economist, to provide market price information
through radio broadcasts. A concerted effort would be made to reduce
seasonal gluts by promoting staggered production and improving the flow of
market informatien.
16.       The extension s.rvices for horticulture would initially be
active mainly in the Western Division, which presently has the highest
concentration of horticulture, and gradually expand to other Divisions.
Since priority should be given to serving existing gardens not all the WID
proiect villages may qualify for activities under this sub-component.
However, in promoting the establishment of new gardens the horticultural
extension services should give priority to the WID project villages,
provided the villagers express interest in receiving the services.
(3) Extension Services for Women's Livestock Production
17.       The Department of Livestock Services (DLS) would develop an
effective and systematic approach to wide-scale vaccination of small
ruminants and poultry and to the delivery of basic messages concerning
improved husbandry practices. Pilot research and demonstration programs
have been started and would be expanded in year one project. These
programs should identify social and economic constraints to adoption of
husbandry practices, with special attention given to gender roles in small
ruminant and poultry production. Technical assistance in evaluating the
pilot programs and developing a model health care and improved husbandry
packaae delivery system would be obtained from the ITC/UNDP regional
projects on trypanotolerant livestock. It is suggested that cooperative
agreements between DLS and these institutions be made before project start-
up.
18.       Once the delivery systems have been tested and established, they
would be gradually replicated on a Divisional basis throughout the country
(including villages in URD which are presently not being reached by the
local URDID project). DLS would provide an appropriate timetable for
extension of the program to both WID project and non-project villages.
19.       A drug fund should be established to procure the necessary
drugs, vaccines, and medications. During a brief initial period the drugs



- 65 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 13
would be administered free of charge to demonstrate to farmers the benefits
of such interventions. Subsequently, the drugs would be sold by extension
staff for cash and the revenues used to replenish the revolving fund at
DLS. Details of drug fund administration would be worked out by DLS in
cooperation with the Agricultural Component Coordinator and the PMU in
project year one. This should include a critical assessment of the
necessary amounts for the fund in light of the gradual extension of the
program and experience with adoption rates of improved health care and
husbandry packages.
20.       Information gained from the existing pilot programs and the
training materials developed during the first year of the project would
contribute to the preparation of a comDrehensive livestock extension manual
for use by field workers. The manual would be published by DLS before the
end of 1991 and made available to all extension workers, agricultural
teachers and volunteers in the country.
21.       The objective of the trainina of livestock assistants would be
to increase awareness and sensitivity to socio-economic practices and
constraints affecting husbandry practices. Emphasis would be placed on the
effects of intra-household distribution of resources and responsibilities.
As part of the training process, each participant would be required to
carry out a simple survey and prepare a report on animal health care and
husbandry practices in the villages for which he or she is responsible.
The reports would be printed by DLS and distributed to all the training
participants.
22.       Study tours for outstanding extension workers -- to be carried
out in project year one - would enable the staff implementing the project
to exchange information with their colleagues in neighboring countries
working under similar conditions.
23.       Improved laboratory equipment and furniture, field sampling
kits, and a cold chain for storage of heat sensitive vaccines, media, and
reagents would be provided under the project. It is also proposed to train
three female staff in laboratory technology to improve efficiency in the
Divisional laboratories and to enhance their prospects for advancement to
intermediate and senior level positions. Suitable candidates for this
training are currently at work in the laboratories.  DLS would start the
application procedures in project year 0, preferably at institutions in
West or East Africa, and the trainees would start their training in project
year one. Candidates would be identified by July 1990.
24.       Apart from the initial evaluation of the existing pilot programs
(para 25), delivery system models to be developed would include provisions
for base-line data collection to be used as a monitoring and evaluation
tool. The simple diagnostic survey (para 29) implemented by each Livestock
Assistant as part of the Divisional training programs, would form the basis
for an annual follow-up evaluation. Evaluation protocols would evolve over
the life of the project. The Agricultural Component Coordinator would be
kept informed on the evaluation results on a regular basis.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 13
25.       The extension services for women's livestock production would
eventually provide improved access to small ruminants medication and
vaccination throughout The Gambia, but would start with work in the 200
proiect villa2es. In particularly, the proposed surveys to be carried out
as part of the extension workers training should cover a large share of
these 200 villages to provide the necessary baseline information for
project evaluation.
(4) Private Sector Input Distribution
26.       The WID project would provide technical assistance for setting
up a sustainable private sector retailer network of about 18 women input
traders across the country. In addition, a line of credit and/or a
guarantee fund would be established at a commercial bank to facilitate
access to credit for these women retailers. Interest would be charged at
commercial rates in accordance with SAL agreements and to prevent unfair
competition with the established input distributor, the Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU). The government is expected to provide equal access to inputs
procured through public channels (i.e., fertilizer) for both the
Cooperatives and the private sector, particularly in regards to conditions
of payment.
27.       There is agreement on the need to make use of the PAO Fertilizer
Project's expertise in identifying private retailers, providing them with
business advice and technical support for an initial period, and creating a
link between input provision and the extension services. Given the
complexity of this issue and the number of unresolved questions, it is
suggested that a study be undertaken as soon as possible. It should
include an updated detailed work plan for FAO under the WID project, look
into the need for credit or other financial means to enhance the prospects
for women retailers, and recommend financial arrangements in line with
Government policy that are sustainable and conform with SAL agreements.
The study should build upon the suggestions of the agricultural
consultants' report (Novogratz and Boughton) and the aide-memoire of the
appraisal mission. Specifically, the study should examine the following
issues.
(a)  What kind and amount of financial support are needed for the
proposed network of private women retailers? What should be the
nature of the fund suggested under the WID project; should it
rather be used for a credit line or as a guarantee fund (e.g.,
in case of widespread crop failures as a result of drought, or
as a partial or total guarantee against default for any reason),
or both?
(b) How can lending for input distribution be channeled through the
commercial banking system? Are commercial banks ready to get
involved in loans for input distribution? What are their
conditions? How should the fund be handled upon project
completion?
(c) Who will have final responsibility for selecting loan
recipients? Who will take the risk of loan defaults? If a



- 67 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 13
guarantee fund is to be set up, what will be the procedures and
criteria for its use?
(d)  What are the minimum eligibility criteria for credit recipients
(gender, qualifications, collateral requirements, etc.) and what
are the lending conditions (interest, repayment procedures,
conditions for onlending, etc.)? Is there a (financial) need
for a wholesalerldistributor; if so, what would be the
requirements for lending WID project funds to a wholesaler?
(e)  For what types of inputs should the fund be used: should it be
made available for medium-term loans (e.g. farm implements) or
be confined to seasonal loans? What mechanisms can ensure that
credit provided under the fund will actually be used by traders
for the designed purpose of agricultural input provision?
(f)  Is the amount presently budgeted appropriate for a credit
linelguarantee fund for 18 retailers plus a wholesaler if it is
determined there is need for one? The consultant should
critically review the projected budget and cash flow of the two
elements of this sub-component. i.e., the operating cost of
technical advice and the fund itself. What assumptions have
been made about complementary financing from FAO or the Gambian
Government?
(g)  What exactly will be the responsibility of the FAQ Fertilizer
Project in the process of retailer selection, business advisory
service, and extension linkage in the context of the WID
project? Is there need for FAO to maintain a role in
wholesaling?
(h)  How do different assumptions about the future development of the
input sector in The Gambia influence the effective functioning
of this sub-component (particularly with reference to input
pricing policy and government involvement in fertilizer
procurement)? A preliminary plan of action for this sub-
component includes the following points set out in paras 37-42
below.
29.       Ten additional women retailer would be identified by the FAQ
Fertilizer Project in order to bring the national network retailers up to a
total of 18. Candidates would be selected on the basis of previous
business experience and their track record, availability of suitable
storage facilities, and geographical location. To meet the ERP objective
of establishing a viable private sector input distribution network over the
life of the project, a private sector wholesale distributor or distributors
to service the retail outlets would be identified. In the event
wholesaler participation is not immediately forthcoming, alternative
mechanisms for distribution should be considered.
30.       To provide an effective business advisory service, eighteen
technical sales agents (TSAs) would be employed on a two-year contract
basis to assist the women retailers in marketing agricultural inputs. The



- 68 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 13
role of the TSAr would be to (a) provide assistance to the retailers in
bookkeeping. stock control and demand forecasting, to (b) liaise with DAB
extension staff in order to identify cohesive and creditworthy women farmer
groups for promotional activities, and (c) ensure tl,-.t clients receive the
appropriate inputs for the proposed activity. Salaries of the TSAs would
be paid by the retailers and reimbursed under the project for the first two
years only. Each TSA would be provided with a motorbike, and the
operational and maintenance costs would be funded under the project for the
first two years. All TSAs would undergo an induction training course on
agricultural input marketing with FAO Project staff. This would be
reinforced through pre-season in-service training sessions and on-the-job
training by project superviscry staff.
31.       The FAO project staff would provide business advisory services
the retailers and the wholesaler(s) during the life of project. As an
integral part of the business advisory service, annual sales promotion
meetings would be held for all members of the Private Dealers Association
and their assistants. The purpose of these meetings would be to determine
the aggregate demand for different types of agricultural inputs, update
dealers in regard to new technologies and recommendations, discuss
marketing strategies (including promotional activities and credit), and
review costs, margins and profit analyses. FAO project staff would assist
the retailers in carrying out semiannual post-season stock control and in
preparing annual sales, profit and loss accounts. These activities would
provide the basis for an annual reassessment of credit line limits for each
retailer, and also facilitate demand forecasting.
32.       The present 'block demonstration' concept has proved to be
highly effective for promoting input use by farmers. In order to
substantially increase female participation cohesive women's groups would
be the focal point for promotional demonstrations. DAS would have primary
responsibility for ensuring adequate professional extension input to this
activity. Demand for group demonstrations is expected to rise from five
per woman retailer in project year one to 40 in year five, with an average
of 25 women farmers taking part in each demonstration.
33.       After two full years of operation there would be a comprehensive
external evaluation to assess the potential for expansion of the women's
retailer network (for which budgetary provision would be made) and any
necessary steps that should be taken to ensure that an independent,
vertically integrated private sector distribution network will be viable by
the end of the project life 1995). This would include an evaluation of the
extent to which local wholesalers have been able to successfully supply the
retailer network. This external evaluation should be conducted in close
cooperation with the M&E Unit of the Women's Bureau. The M&E Unit may also
provide field data from its study on the effective outreach of extension
services and the female private sector retailer network scheduled for
project year two.
34.       The women retailers would not necessarily be located in WID
proiect villages, and they would certainly serve a large clientele. But it
should be stressed by project management and FAO that the retailers and the



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 13
technical sales assistants should make special efforts to promote input use
in these project villages.
(5) Women's Cooperative Groups
35.       The WID project would encourage the provision of credit to
women's Cooperative groups under the GCU village branch lending system by
providing institutional support for women credit officers. These officers
would identify and liaise with women farmer groups that are suitable for
loans under the program. Initially, three credit officers, preferably
female, would be financed under the project. Induction training would be
provided by GCU.
36.       GCU would specify in its work plans targets for the number of
women's Cooperative groups to be assisted. Quarterly status reports would
provide information on the actual number of groups and number of individual
women reached; they would include information on the kind and amount of
credit provided to these groups, as well as loan recovery rates. Given the
novelty of the approach, this sub-component requires close monitoring by
the M&E Unit of the Women's Bureau. Upon successful initiation in
successive years, the number of credit officers would gradually be expanded
to seven.
37.       The GCU women credit officers should emphasize liaising with
vomen's groups in the 200 WID proiect villages, although they would not be
restricted to those villages. Obviously, a major precondition for GCU
lending is that Cooperatives are active in the particular area and the
villages fulfill the criteria for credit provision under the GCU village
branch lending system.
(6) Food Storage, Preservation and Nutrition Extension
38.       FNU would build up linkages with an established technology
organization with expertise in food processing and storage technologies.
This partner organization would provide short-term technical assistance to
FNU during the initial phase of the project and owuld cover the following
activities:
- Training of FNU in focl processing and storage techniques;
- Development of training materials for use by FNU staff to
train extension agents from DAS and other agencies;
- Collaboration with FNU staff to identify appropriate
household-level technologies, given the existing economic and
cultural constraints in The Gambia; and
- Collaboration with FNU staff to formulate a prioritized
strategy and work plan, to be implemented during the next four
years of the project.
To improve staff skill levels on an ongoing basis, two FNU staff members
each year would receive the equivalent of one month of training in food



- 70 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 10 of 13
processing and storage in collaboration with the partner organization
durirng project years two through five.
39.       During the second year of the project, one FNU staff member
would receive university trainina toward completion of a Bachelor's degree
in food science and nutrition. Two additional staff members would commence
university training -- one in the second and the other in the third year of
the project. Staggering staff training in this way would ensure that the
operational staff will not be reduced by more than two members at any one
time. In the pre-project phase priority would be given to completing of
the pilot studies and to setting up appropriate office facilities. For
this purpose, FNU would prepare a procurement order for purchasing the
needed furniture and supplies.
40.       To improve the availability of educational resources and
references available, the FNU would establish a food and nutrition library
and prepare a literature review summary. The library resources would be
updated annually with recent literature and publications. FNU would also
develop training materials to provide guidelines for the transfer of
information on post-harvest handling, processing and storage to field-
based extension workers; these training materials would be edited and
included in the DAS extension manuals. Once the materials have been
prepared, two one-week awareness seminars would be administered by FNU,
with 30-35 extension agents from the Department of Agriculture and from
experienced NGOs participating in each seminar.
41.       Nutritious, low cost recipes would be developed, tested and
published in a simple recipe book in local languages. Du..ing the first
project year, FNU would establish a food production laboratory to
facilitate future activities concerning food preparation and the
demonstration of processing techniques. Starting in project year two, FNU
would conduct a promotional campaign to encourage household preparation of
alternative recipes using traditional foodstuff. The campaign would
include cooking demonstrations and training workshops.
42.       PNU would collaborate with the Nutrition Unit of the Department
of Health to identify 15 villages, on the basis of their cohesiveness and
interest level in areas suffering high seasonal malnutrition rates, that
would be provided training tailored to the nutritional nteds and crop bases
of the targeted areas. Through linking up with the Agricultural
Engineering Unit (AEU), nev household technologies and food processing
strategies would be developed and tested during the project. FNU would
focus their extension efforts on the 200 WID proiect villages, but start
with its field work in project year two only after a prioritized work plan
for FNU has been finalized.
(7) Management of Small-scale Post-Harvest Eauipment
43.       An NGO of private sector organization would be employed to
implement a program of institutional strengthening of village cereal
processing. This program would comprise the following:



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 11 of 13
(a) Identification of villages with existing coarse grain milling
facilities that have the potential to become economically viable in
the long run;
(b) Implementation of a village management committee and operator
training program in selected villages (40 villages per annum);
(c) Identification and training of rural mechanics in the vicinity of the
selected villages, in the repair of processing units; and
(d) Assistance to villages that achieve an adequate cash flow in
preparing loan applications for replacing mills andlor purchasing
dehullers.
The implementing agency would also undertake research and filed tests to
identify a smaller dehuller for use with existing engines.
44.          The villages to be covered in the campaign to improve the
management of post-harvest equipment would not necessarily be WID project
villages, since availability of a machine and prospects for sustainable,
economical performance would be the main criteria for the selection of
suitable villages. The implementing agency is expected to work with at least
40 villages each year.
(8) Savings Mobilization Campaign
45.          Upon presentation of a detailed work plan, the Gambia Women's
Finance Company (GWFC) would be employed on a two-year renewable technical
assistance contract to organize savings mobilization among women farmers.
Savings would be deposited at commercial banks or other financial institutions
with a proven track record. GWFC would cooperate closely with existing
Gambian institutions, particularly other NGOs, in this effort and make use of
the experience and resources of the IEC component of the WID project.
46.          In collaboration with existing financial institutions, GWFC
would try to develop systems for improvinw access of women to savings
facilities in these institutions. This would include a critical evaluation of
the feasibility of a greater number of branches with deposit opportunities
available in rural areas. On the village level, GWFC would undertake to
increase women's awareness about such opportunities and assist in developing
systems for facilitating their access to savings facilities.
47.          In collaboration with the Management Development Institute
(MDI), GWFC would develop and conduct training seminars for extension agents
of existing organizations to increase their awareness a.bout savings
opportunities and to strengthen their credit analysis skills. This training
would be modified on a yearly basis in response to the articulated needs of
extension workers.
48.          The savings mobilization campaign would be directed mainly at
women in the 200 WID Droject villages. After project year two, an external
consultant would evaluate the effectiveness of the savings mobilization
campaign and recommend ways to improve it.



- 72 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 12 of 13
(9) Establishment of an Agricultural Coordinator's Office
49.       The primary responsibilities of the Agricultural Component
Coordinator would be to support planning activities, expedite procurement
procedures, ensure timely implementation of the agricultural component
activities, and monitor progress in the component's implementing agencies.
The specific tasks of the Coordinator would be to:
(a) Coordinate timely delivery of inputs and other resources to
the implementing agencies;
(b) Monitor proiect performance by attending (organizing)
Divisional meetings, reviewing status reports (para 61
below), and maintaining contact with the implementing
agencies;
(c) Provide mechanisms to promote dialogue among the
implementing agencies at the national level (e.g., through
the Agricultural Component Advisory Committee) and the
Divisional level (in coordination with the Commissioners).
(d) Prepare quarterly progress reports on the component's
overall progress in reaching the targeted quantifiable and
social objectives and on the short-term needs of the
implementing agencies; and
(e) On the basis of experience gained during the project,
propose modifications to the programs to accelerate
progress in implementing them.
50.       A quarterly progress report would be prepared by the
Agricultural Component Coordinator for submission to the PMU to summarize
the information contained in the individual status reports and to recommend
any necessary changes in the component activities.  A financial statement
will be submitted by the Coordinator on an annual basis to describe the
financial situation of each implementing agency. Actual expenditures would
be compared with the estimated budgets.
51.       The Coordinator would attend one short-term project management
course each year at the Management Development Institute (MDI) to develop
his or her management and project evaluation skills. It is recommended
that the Coordinator also be enrolled in MDI's Advaneed Project Management
Course for Participants from the Civil Service. Prior to project start-
up, the Coordinator would receive one-on-one training by an MDI staff
member two days per week for a six-week period. This training would be
specifically oriented to management of the agricultural component. During
the training sessions, management policies, operational systems, and
reporting procedures and forms would be designed to facilitate daily
management of the Agricultural Component Coordinator's Office.
52.       Under the sapervision of the Divisional Agricultural Coordinator
and chaired by each Divisional Commissioner, Divisional meetinas would be



- 73-                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 13 of 13
held on a quarterly basis for monitoring purposes. Participants of the
Divisional meetings should include representatives from the implementing
agencies, as well as VEWs, representatives of active NGOs, private sector
women retailers, and leaders of women's Cooperative groups. The meetings
would serve as forums for the implementing agencies to transmit information
to farmers (through the women retailers and village leaders), and would
enable the women retailers and farmers to articulate their needs and those
of other women farmers to higher authorities. Villagers are expected to
meet regularly to aiscuss the local proRress of the overall WID project.
By providing direct access to the implementing agencies, the Divisional
meetings would enhance the effectiveness of the village level committees.
53.       The implementing agencies would be responsible and accountable
for the preparation of annual work plans and budgets. The plans should
specify the quantified inputs and outputs of the respective agency, the
target villages to be reached in the following year, and plans for in-
house monitoring and reporting. Corresponding procurement orders would
also be prepared. Quarterly status reports would be prepared by the
implementing agencies to describe the current status of the agricultural
component, major activities undertaken during the reporting period, any
problems encountered, and plans for the upcoming quarter. The status
reports should include estimates of the number of beneficiaries assisted,
cost effectiveness, and any social changes observed (in terms of actions or
attitudes). All reports and procurement orders should be submitted to the
Agricultural Component Coordinator.
54.       The present task force for preparation of the agricultural
component would be replaced by an Agricultural Component Advisory Committee
gACAC), composed of the Agricultural Component Coordinator and of
representatives of the implementing agencies for this component including
the relevant operating units of the Ministry of Agriculture. ACAC would
meet at least twice a year to review past performance, recommend remedial
acticns for any major problems that may arise, and coordinate the work
plans and field work of the implementing agencies.
55.       It should be emphasized that the responsibilities anu many tasks
of the Agricultural Component Coordinator require that this position be
filled by a full-time senior official, who should be provided with
appropriate admiinistrative and secretarial support by the Ministry of
Agriculture.
D.   Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
56.       Funds have been provided under tne PPF for the following:
establishment of the Agricultural Component Coordinator's Office (vehicle,
furniture, equipment end operating costs); study on the private sector
retailer network; component preparation by the Gambian Women's Finance
Company (GWFC); and completion of the pilot studies.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A.   Goals and Objectives
1.        In view of the low level of eco'nomic productivity and high
illiteracy rate among rural women in The f*Zmbia, this component aims to
develop their productive skills in order to promote women's fuller
participation in the economy and enhance their social position and improve
living standards within their communities. The specific objectives of the
skills development component are tot
(a)  Improve rural-based skills for women and promote the development
of other viable and marketable skills;
(b)  Organize and strengthen women's groups in rural areas for small
business and income-generating activities; and
(c)  Promote basic literacy and numeracy skills through  training
activities relevant to women's social and economic needs.
2.        To achieve these objectives, the skills development component
would provide a comprehensive program to support and promote women's
economic productivity. The key elements of the component are:
-    Direct involvement of women beneficiaries at the village
level, using traditional women's kafo groups as entry
points;
-    Specification by locality of viable income-generating
opportunities through market surveys and community needs
assessment;
-    Strengthening of the organization of women's groups to
facilitate skills training for improved production and
business management combined with functional literacy and
numeracy;
-    Training in the use of and improved access to credit for
women's small business and income-generating activities;
and
-    Technical assistance with marketing aspects, as well as
close follow-up assistance and advice on starting and
maintaining sizsll businesses or income-generating
activities.
.                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 7
3.        The skills development component would be implemented over a
period of six years. The Department of Community Development (DCD) in the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands would be the main implementing
agency. DCD, with its network of extension workers at the village level,
reaches the rural population effectively and promotes the acquisition of
numerous skills, including literacy and numeracy. The main participating
agency would be the Department of Nonformal Education (NFE) in the Ministry
of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture. NFE, with its experience and
expertise in skill training and the development of nonformal educational
materials (particularly literacy/numeracy), would be a key supporting
agency. To ensure smooth cooperation between DCD and NFE, a protocol of
understanding between the respective Ministries will specify the human and
physical resources to be allocated by each, as well as the role of the
various staff to be assigned. This protocol is to be drawn up by the
Ministry of Finance.
B.   Proposed Sub-components
4.        Three sub-components are proposed for this intervention- (a)
strengthening of Government Departments and participating agencies; (b) a
skills development program; and (c) improved access to credit.
C.   Sub-Component I: Strengthening of Government Departments and
Participatina Agencies
5.        This sub-component would strengthen the capacity of DCD and NFE
professional staff to effectively plan, implement and manage the skills
development program and associated credit scheme. In addition to
strengthening the management skills of government departments and
participating agencies and providing the appropriate vehicles and
equipment, the main activity of this sub-component would be to train the
trainers. This would comprise:
(a) Training of the national staff of DCD and NFE (Skill Component
Coordinator, CDOs and NFE Divisional staff) in implementation
and management techniques;
(b) Study tours for national staff (selected personnel of DCD, NFE
and Divisional CDOs) in neighboring countries, followed by
debriefing workshops in Banjul, to include the field-level CDAs;
(c) Division-level orientation workshops for District Commissioners
and Village Development Committees (VDCs); and
(d) In-service and refresher training for 50 Community Development
Agents (CDAs) and the retraining of Home Craft Assistants
(HCAs).



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3,of 7
6.        A technical assistance (TA) team composed of three specialists
(total of 57 person-months) would assist DCD and N2E in implementing the
skills development component, as described in paras ', 8 and 9 below. Each
specialist would have a Gambian counterpart, whom the specialist would
train to take over when the TA assignment is completed.
7.        TA for income-generating activities - Soecialist in small
business develooment (36 person-months). This specialist would be the TA
team leader and also serve as the Component Manager, heading the Project
Unit for the skills development component. During project start-up, the
specialist and Gambian counterpart would survey the existing programs and
the field experience of organizations providing small business advisory
services in The Gambia, such as IBAS, GCU and UNDP. With the help of
trained CDAs, they would organize and carry out village-level needs
assessments and local marketing surveys in order to specify which market
opportunities and productive activities would be appropriate for a given
village. On the basis of this field work, they would participate in the
selection of 125 villages for skills development from amons the 200 pre-
selected during project preparation. On the basis of these activities and
in collaboration with the Skills Development Component Coordinator and with
the TA team as a whole ,And senior-level staff from DCD and NFE, the small
business specialist would finalize a detailed implementation plan,
including staff training at the national and regional levels as well as a
precise timetable for the skills development component. The work plan
should give clear performance indicators for monitoring progress in
implementation. The small business specialist would play an important role
in the planning and execution of the various training activities
(workshops, training courses, orientation sessions, study tours, etc.)
which are described below.
8.        TA for skill trainins development - Specialist in nonformal
curriculum and design (12 oerson-months).    In close collaboration with
NFE and DCD, this specialist and the Gambian counterpart nominated by NFE
would survey, catalog and assess the appropriateness of the considerable
body of potentially useful teaching materials already in existence in the
country. Working closely with the small business and credit specialists,
they would undertake a training needs analysis and prepare a plan for the
development of appropriate materials and methods for implementing the
skills development component. The specialist and the Gambian counterpart
would need to advise on and plan for two quite distinct types of training;
the first type is related to the skills component staff (national staff of
DCD and NFE including the Skills Component Coordinator, and the CDAs in the
field), whereas the second is related to the direct beneficiaries of the
skill training for income generation and basic literacy/numeracy. The
training would include women's groups as well as selected women tutors.
The specialist and the Gambian counterpart would develop curricula and
methodologies, in cooperation with NFE, to cover the skili areas identified
in the market studies, as well as literacy/numeracy materials. The various
materials related to both types of training would be prepared in the
context of writers' workshops and reproduced at the BPMRU in the Ministry
of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 7
9.        TA for establishment of a credit scheme - Specialist in small-
scale credit mechanisms (9 person-months). This specialist and the Gambian
counterpart, working closely with the Grassroots Development Fund (GRD) in
DCD, would finalize arrangements for establishing a revolving credit fund
to support small business and income-generating activities for women
trainees of the skills development component. In coordination with the
other two specialists, training curricula and orientation workshops would
be designed to strengthen the capacity of field staff of CDAs in credit
management and administration, as well as the ability of women to obtain
and manage credit. The operational policies and practices of the credit
scheme would be adapted from the current operations of the GRD, but would
alse take into account mechanisms in use by other organizations offering
credit in rural areas, such as Action Aid, Save the Children Fund (USA),
CUSO, WISDOM and IBAS. The credit specialist would be responsible for
elaborating detailed procedures for operating the credit scheme to be
funded under the skills development component; in this connection, a
monitoring system would be devised to keep track of credit applications,
disbursements, recovery records, and the financial status of the credit
scheme.
D.        Sub-Component II:  The Skills Development Program
10.       As the main operational activity of the entire component, the
Skills Development Program would seek to increase the economic productivity
of rural women and their capacity to raise their incomes and social status.
This program would target approximately 10,000 women in 125 villages
nationwide that would be selected from a larger group of 200 villages to be
agreed upon before the implementation phase begins. The Skills Development
Program would have nationwide impact and be implemented in phases, to
include The Gambia's five administrative Divisions, starting with two
Divisions in the second year, two in the third and one in the fourth year.
11.       The mobilization and strengthening of women's kafo groups and
the orientation of VDCs to support the skills development component would
take place during the initial period of implementation. Existing women's
kafo groups, would serve as entry points for the skills development
component. Trained CDAs, together with the kafo groups, would facilitate
the selection of women's groups already engaged in income activities, as
well as facilitate the formation of other groups interested in initiating
new business activities based on identified market opportunities. Women's
groups are involved in a number of productive activities -- e.g., food
processing and drying, oil pressing, poultry production, small
manufacturing of consumable .tems, trading, and tailoring.
12.       The skills development component would improve and upgrade
existing skills and introduce new ones. It would provide training in
technical skills, business management, improved production methods and
technologies, and the ability to use credit. The expertise of various
governmental and non-governmental agencies and local artisans would be



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 7
utilized to impart the skill training. Relevant materials would be
prepared by NFE specifically for these activities (para 3 above).
13.       The CDAs would also use kafo groups as entry points to identify
and select women tutors or other appropriate persons from the villages to
promote basic numeracy and literacy; 125 tutors would be trained for three
months, spread over a period of six to seven months. Training methods that
emphasize the concept of learning by doing would be used, thereby building
confidence among the women tutors and providing them with follow-up
support.
14.       Skill training for income generation and for functional literacy
would commence simultaneously, so that both activities can mutually
reinforce each other and have a greater impact. The training activities
described above would be carried out on site (at the village level) and in
selected key villages during the seven to eight months of the dry season.
DCD and NFE staff and field workers, supported by technical assistance
provided under the skills development component, would closely follow
activities that are breaking new ground in The Gambian context.
Sustainability would be assured through the use of existing facilities and
local personnel in implementing all aspects vis-a-vis the identification of
training needs, training, management, etc., so as to continue the program
uninterrupted in subsequent years.
E.   Sub-Component III:  Improved Access to Credit
15.       An essential addition to the skills development component is
improved access to credit for rural women. In light of evidence that skill
training by itself cannot lead to the realization of income-generating
activities, a flexible revolving fund for rural women would be established
as an integral part of the component. Credit would be extended to women
participants in the skills development program who have acquired specific
skills; women's groups as well as individuals would be considered as
eligible.
16.       This small-scale credit scheme to be funded under the skills
development component would not exceed a total of US$600,000. Management
costs would be minimized by using the expertise of ongoing mechanisms for
extending credit in rural areas (para 9). Important design features of the
credit scheme would includes (a) bringing credit to women in villages
distant from banking institutions; (b) linking credit closely with income-
generating skills and small business development in a mutually reinforcing
package; (c) using a system of group guarantees to encourage high levels of
community involvement in the repayment of loans; and (d) charging an
interest rate that covers the cost of administering the credit scheme and
protects the revolving fund's real value against inflation over time (with
inflation now at 8? and an estimated administrative cost of 8t of annual
lending, the interest rate would be 162).



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 7
17.       With agreed policy and procedural guidelines for the operation
of the credit scheme, it would become an institutionalized and sustainable
activity enhancing the income-generating potential of rural women who are
not served by other sources of credit.
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation
18.       Monitoring and evaluation would be a continuous activity carried
out during the entire life of the skills development component and its
interrelated credit scheme. Periodic monitoring to track progress towards
project objectives and to identify problems and ways to solve them is to be
accomplished by designing a simple, manageable system.
19.       Three technical assistants, together with their three Gambian
counterparts, would develop performance indicators to provide both a
quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the results/impact and
appropriateness of all activities of the skills development component.
Data generated from monitoring activities at the village level would
provide DCD and NFE with information to evaluate and improve overall
performance.
20.       To ensure that the monitoring and evaluation system will be
understood and properly implemented by all concerned, it would form part of
the curriculum of the training provided in workshops for national staff,
Division-level personnel, and field workers during the start-up phase. It
is envisaged that at the close of the short-term technical assistance the
monitoring and evaluation activities can be sustained throughout the
project cycle and beyond.
21.       Emphasis in the monitoring system would be on a participatory
approach. Particularly at the village level, the monitoring process would
include representatives of all the women's groups involved. This would
provide an opportunity for the women to articulate their concerns and,
together with the implementing agencies, determine ways to resolve any
problems that arise. The monitoring and evaluation activities would be
conducted at both the central and field levels by the Skills Component
Coordinator and the field staff, as follows:
(a) At the central level:
- Close follow-up of the skills development component work plan
and its implementation, as well as resolution of problems as
they arise.
- A detailed work plan with objectively verifiable performance
indicators would be developed for the training, credit, and
small business schemes.
- Regular field v'sits and back-up support, as required.



- 80 -
AMNEX 3-2
Page 7 of 7
- Submission of periodic reports to the implementing and
participating ministries and agencies.
(b) At the field levels
- Regular visits to women's groups and their business and other
training activities.
- Monitoring to ensure the proper functioning of the credit
scheme.
- Problem solving in conjunction with women's groups.
- Submission of periodic reports to DCD through the Divisional
CDOa.
G.     Proiect Prevaration Facility (PPF)
22.       Funds have been provided under the PPF for initial technical
assistance for income-generating activities, the establishment of a credit
scheme, and skill training development; planning and implementation
nrkshops; curriculum preparation with a workshop: and the trainiug of
CL  .
bsannex3.2 (sSple)



- 81 -                              ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAFE MOTHERHOOD AND FAMILY PLANNING COMPONENT
A. Background
1.       Data on The Gambia's health status indicate that maternal, infant
and child mortality rates are among the highest in Africa. Maternal
mortality is reported at 10 per 1,000 live births, but recent studies by
the British Medical Research Council (MRC) show that in some rural areas it
is as high as 20-22 per 1000 live births. The infant and under five
mortality rates are 143 and 242, respectively. per 1,000. Post-partum
hemorrhage and infections are the leading causes of maternal mortality,
while infant and child mortality are caused mainly by malaria, diarrhea,
and respiratory tract infections. Malnutrition has a compounding effect on
mortality and morbidity, particularly among children and pregnant women.
Maternal death is one of the main causes of neonatal and infant mortality.
2.       To address these health problems, the Government embarked on an
ambitious primary health care (PHC) program in 1980, the cornerstone of
which is the establishment of a network of village-level health posts
(VHPs' operated and supported by village communities. So far, 316 VHPs
have been established in villages with a population of 400 and more; this
provides a PHC coverage of 60? for the country. Each VHP is staffed with a
village health worker (VHW) and a traditional birth attendant (TBA), both
of which are chosen by the villagers and trained by the Ministry of Health
in a range of curative and preventive health services. PHC villages are
grouped into circuits, each with an average of 4-5 villages, one of which
is designed as the "key' village; this village is a base for the community
hr.alth nurse (CHN), who participates in the initial training of the VHWs
and TBAs of his (or her) circuit and is also the first-line technical
supervisor of the two health workers.
3.        Another important element of the Government's PHC strategy is the
development of mobile outreach services (trekking teams) that are provided
by health centers and dispensaries, and that visit wayside stations
(trekking stations) at monthly intervals. These trekking teams serve as
the link between the villages health services and the Government's referral
system (health centers, dispensaries and hospitals). Because of the high
toll of sickness and premature deaths among mothers and young children,
priority has been given to MCH services in the outreach clinics. To date,
mobile clinic services are offered at more than 100 locations throughout
the country, and they have played a major role in The Gambia being able to
attain a high level of infant vaccination coverage.
4.       The Government's impressive PHC effort; however, has not produced
the expected improvement in the level of maternal mortality.  An evaluarion
of the performance of the TBAs will be undertaken before the start of the
project (paras 13 and 14), to determine what has caused this lack of
improvement. But in all likelihood it is due to inadequate training and



- 82 -                             ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 11
supervision, the absence of a good referral system to back up the village
health structure, and the severe budgetary constraints the Government has
faced during the 1980s. which have led to a steady decline in operating
expenditures for the health sector, particularly for essential drugs,
thereby progressively undermining the effectiveness of the health care
system. The National Health Development Program (NHDP). launched in early
1986 with the support of the World Bank and of other donors, is addressing
these problems. It focuses on (a) expanding and strengthening the various
referral levels, from health centers to hospitals; (b) training community
health nurses (CHNs) and state enrolled nurses (SENs): and (c) increasing
the availability of essential drugs. An important feature of the program
is the introduction of cost recovery for drugs and health services to
promote more efficient use of health facilities and shift some of the cost
of improved health services to the beneficiaries.
5.       Most of the information on maternal mortality is related to
hospital-based surveys, although in rural areas only a minority of women
deliver in a hospital or medical center, even when there have been
complications during the pregnancy. In these circumstances, many maternal
and neonatal deaths occur at home and therefore information on them often
is not available.  Two studies undertaken in The Gambia -- a year-long
prospective study conducted by MRC in 1982-83, covering 41 villages in the
North Bank Division, and a more recent study undertaken by the Ministry of
Health in the Western Region --point to obstetrical factors as a major
cause of maternal mortality. These could largely be prevented through early
detection of high-risk pregnancies, appropriate prenatal care, and prompt
handling of complications. However, health workers usually see a pregnant
women for the first time when she has reached an advanced stage of
pregnancy and often only when complications arise. Transport in many
villages is difficult to obtain in an emergency: road conditions in many
areas are poor, with horse-and-donkey carts the only means, other than by
walking, by which residents of the more isolated villages can reach town.
In some areas that have no health facilities, women travel up to 20 km to
reach a maternal and child health (MCH) outreach clinic, which are
periodically organized by the nearest health center.
6.        Few health centers have the facilities to handle emergency cases,
which have to be evacuated to the two hospitals in Banjul or Bansang. For
residents on the north bank of the Gambia River, until recently this meant
a journey of several hours. The situation has begun to improve with the
recent upgrading of two major health centers -- one in Banjul and the other
in Kuntaur, on the. river's north bank -- which are equipped to provide
advanced obstetrical treatment and to handle emergencies, including blood
transfusions. These are the first two health centers (out of 7 throughout
the country) to be upgraded to provide advanced maternal care under the
strategy being implemented in the context of the NHDP (para 4). In
addition, at all the country's 16 health centers (including the 7 to be
upgraded), maternity waiting homes would be constructed (6 under the NHDP
and 10 under a United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
project) to allow mothers at risk to stay near a health facility prior to
delivery.        0
7.       The high fertility rate (6.5 live births per woman) in The Gambia
also weakens maternal health and a woman's ability to provide for her
children. The Government has supported family planning (FP) for many
years, and FP activities have been carried out by the Ministry of Health
.                     X
l



- 83 -                           ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 11
(through hospitals, health centers and the village-based system) and by an
indigenous NGO, the Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA), mainly
through community-based distributors (CBDs). In spite of these activities,
the contraceptive prevalence rate tCPR) has remained disappointingly low
(about 6X, according to the most recent estimates). To shed light on the
current situation and determine its causes, a contraceptive prevalence
survey will be undertaken in 1990 with UNFPA and IDA financing.
8.        Situated within the Sahelian zone, The Gambia is subject to the
harsh climatic conditions typical of this region, with a long dry season
and a short rainy season, during which food crop production is undertaken.
Rainfall is extremely variable and unevenly distributed, and the soils are
poor and fragile. These factors make the country's food and nutrition
situation rather precarious--a situation compounded by widespread
infectious, parasitic and gastrointestinal diseases, poor environmental and
personal sanitation, poor intra-household food distribution, and harmful
food and health practices and beliefs.
9.        Research conducted thus far on malnutrition in The Gambia by
such organizations as the Dunn Nutrition Unit of MRC, the Ministry of
Health, and several NGOs, indicates that malnutrition is widespread and
varies by season and region, with rural areas more severely affected than
urban. Urban Gambians consume an average of 2,200 calories per person per
day throughout the year (the FAO-established norm is 2,230 calories),
compared with the rural population's consumption of an average of 2,140
calories per day during the post-harvest season but only 1,660 during the
rainy season, representing a daily shortfall of about 500 calories per
person per day in rural areas. The effects of the "hungry' season are
exacerbated by a heavy agricultural workload borne by all active members of
the community, including pregnant and lactating women.
10.       Pregnant and lactating mothers and children, particularly those
between six months and two or three years of age, are the most vulnerable
groups. Research undertaken thus far indicates that about 30-402 of
Gambian children are affected by chronic malnutrition (mild in appearance,
this malnutrition takes the form of low stature and weight for the
particular age), while severe malnutrition (less than 602 of the Harvard
standard for weight per age) affects only between 22 and 4X of Gambian
children. The nutritional situation of women is especially critical. Most
Gambian women have their first child soon after menarche and continue with
regular reproductive cycles until menopause. Pregnancy often follows
immediately after lactation (which lasts from 18 to 22 months), without an
intervening period during which nutritional stores could be replenished.
Women therefore frequently start pregnancy in a nutritionally debilitated
state. Maternal malnutrition severely limits fetal growth and causes low
birth weight (below the WHO cut-off of 2,500 g. '-slected as the point below
which neo-natal mortality rates increase sharply). Studies undertaken by
MRC and Save the Children Fund (SCF) in some rural areas of the country
show an incidence of low birth weight as high as 25X.  Still births and
early termination of pregnancies are also high in those areas.



- gIL -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 11
B. ObJectives of the Safe Motherhood and Family Planning Component
11.      The objectives of the safe motherhood and FP component of the WID
project are to: (a) reduce the current high maternal mortality rate; (b)
reduce the incidence of maternal malnutrition; and (c) raise the
contraceptive prevalence rate from the current low level of 6Z. The
strategy proposed under the WID project to achieve these objectives
includes: training of TBAs to improve identification and management of at-
risk mothers well before delivery; establishment of an "alarm- evacuation
system to transfer high-risk pregnancy and emergency cases from isolated
villages to facilities where more sophisticated care can be provided; a
village-based nutrition education program; and expansion of FP services.
By concentrating on strengthening and expanding the village-based health
system, the component would complement the activities undertaken under the
NHDP (para 4) and improve the linkage between village communities and the
public health services, with respect to both the patient referral system
and the supervision and support of personnel. As some of the proposed
measures are innovative, they would be introduced on a pilot basis. This
component comprises four sub-components: (a) risk identification and
management; (b) local evacuation and telecommunications; (c) women's
nutrition; and (d) family planning. These are described below. While sub-
components (a) to (c) would be implemented in the 200 villages targeted for
project intervention, sub-component (d) would cover both rural and peri-
urban areas.
(1) Risk Identification and Management
12.      The objectives of this sub-component are to: (a) routinely provide
a full range of ante-natal and post-natal care for pregnant women by the
end of the five-year project period, through the combined services of
trained TBAs at the village level and of trekking teams at trekking
stations; (b) ensure that 50 of pregnant women in the intervention
villages who give birth will have had at least two ante-natal consultations a
during their pregnancies and at least one post-partum consultation,
including family planning education; and (c) ensure that 50? of the
estimated high-risk pregnancies will be identified and referred by the TBA
to the community health nurse (CHN) for follow-up and monitoring.
13.      To achieve these objectives, the strategy would be to improve
ante-natal, delivery and post-natal care and to strengthen the system for
identifying, managing and referring high-risk pregnancies. Under the sub-
component, in-service training would be provided for 200 TBAs (the trained
TBA in each of the 200 project villages), 40 to 50 CHNs (depending on the
number of key villages in the project area), and 15 trekking teams covering
35 trekking stations. Special attention would be given to the interaction
among these three MCH services at the PHC level. The in-service training
would address gaps in the health worker performance identified by the
evaluation of th TEA program and the MCH services provided by trekking
teams (para 3). The objectives of the evaluation are to determine whether
the majority of rpral women use the trained TBAs, how effective these TBAs
are, whether they have integrated the new procedures into their routine
practice, and whether risk factors and potential complications are being
noted and referred to higher level.



- 85 -                              ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 11
14.      The evaluation not only would provide answers on how TBA training
may be improved, but also help review the Government's policy and establish
whether the role envisioned for the TEAs as key actors in the formal health
care system is realistic. The results of the TRA evaluation, along with
the results of the contraceptive prevalence survey, which will also collect
data on maternal mortality, are expected to stimulate consideration of new
community-level interventions.
15.      Many untrained TBAs still operate at the village level, and it is
suspected that many women continue to use the TBAs that have traditionally
served their groups even when trained TBAs are available in the area. The
TMA survey should reveal to what extent this is happening. The project
proposes to integrate into the PHC network 400 untrained TBAs (two in each
of the 200 project villages) by providing basic training in a limited range
of skills such as sterile delivery techniques, identification and referral
of high-risk pregnancies, and family planning.
16.      The identification of mothers with high-risk pregnancies is a
crucial element of the high-risk referral strategy. Approaches currently
used by the NGO, Save the Children Fund (SCF), to identify and refer high-
risk pregnancies -- i.e., use of traditional women's groups (kabilos) based
on family ties, and introduction of simple pictoral cards for screening
risk cases -- would be tried out in the context of the government health
services and, if proven successful, integrated by the Government into the
PHC program. The Government would contract SCF to help it adapt both
approaches to the PHC system and also test them.
17.      Dilapidated facilities, as well as a lack of drugs and basic
equipment, have made the outreach service practically unable to perform its
functions. Hence, under this sub-component, the project would refurbish
and/or reconstruct 35 sub-dispensaries used as trekking stations by the MCH
outreach clinics periodically organized by the health centers in their
areas. Fifteen trekking teams would be provided basic equipment, and
health posts would be constructed in 10 isolated villages of the Upper
River Division that have VHWs and trained TBAs but lack a permanent lealth
facility where patients and particularly pregnant women can be treated
privately. This is seen as a strong deterrent in keeping pregnant women
from using preventive health services.
(2) Local Evacuation and Telecommunications
18.      The objectives of this sub-component are tot (a) establish an
appropriate and easily maintained means for evacuating emergency cases in
105 isolated villages; and (b) provide solar-powered radio communication
links between key villages and health centers in one of the most isolated
and unserviced part of the country.
19.      The health centers and hospitals are currently equipped with
ambulances in various states of operation. Furthermore, a
telecommunicationg system is being introduced under the NHDP to link the
health centers to regional headquarters of the Ministry of Health, the two
hospitals, and the national telecommunications network. Below the level of
the health centers, however. communication and access to timely transport
are very poor. Hence, the project would improve the situation by (a)
providing animal drawn (horse/donkey) ambulances for 105 isolated villages



- 86 -                              ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 11
for emergency evacuation of pregnant women to a place where motorized
transport is available: and (b) providing solar-powered radio equipment for
five base and 10 out-stations in the isolated Upper River Division,
enabling the health centers to maintain emergency and routine
communications with key villages in that area. This would be part of a
phased approach to gradually providing communication links between all
health centers and key villages in the country. The village ambulances
would be improved carts designed to provide comfort and safety (i.e., built
with padding and side barriers). The carts would belong to the Village
Development Committees (VDCs), which would appoint a caretaker for each
animal and cart and closely monitor their use and care. Some use of the
animal (i.e., for farming activities) would be granted to the caretaker as
an incentive to look after it. This system would be first tried out in 21
villages, and only if proven successful would be extended to the remaining
villages.
20.      The project would finance: carts and animals, radio equipment and
materials, equipment maintenance, and an evaluation of both the ambulance
and the telecommunications program.
(3) Women's Nutrition
21.      The Government's priority in the area of nutrition is to improve
the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups. Its recently
developed strategy to do this emphasizes (a) integration of nutrition into
the PHCIMCH system of the Ministry of Health; (b) a food supplementation
program targeted to pregnant and lactating women but including their
children up to age 2; and (c) an intensive nutrition educational effort to
increase awareness and understanding of the nutritional needs of pregnant
and lactating women anC small children, so as to promote behavioral change.
The NGO, Catholic Relief Services (CRS), would provide the food
supplementation, which would consist of take-home food packages. CRS has
been administering a food supplementation program in The Gambia since 1974
and recently agreed to link this program more closely to the Government's
nutrition objectives and strategy. As a result, in addition to merging the
program into the PHC system managed by the Ministry of Health, the target
group has changed from children under age 5 to the Government target group,
pregnant and lactating women and their children up to age 2. Title II
imported commodities, thus far used for the feeding program, would be
gradually phased out and replaced by locally grown food (sesame,
groundnuts, sugar, cowpeas, fruits and vegetables), which ths communities
themselves would provide. Recipes for weaning food and maternal
supplements would be developed with the assistance of the Food and
Nutrition Unit (FNU) of the Ministry of Agriculture, and would be prepared
by women's groups and tested in selected villages before being introduced
on a larger scale (funds for these activities are included under the
agricultural component).
22.      The food supplementation program would be implemented by community
management commitjees whose members would be chosen by the local kafos
(women's groups). Growth monitoring of children would be managed at PHC
posts, and analysis and data reporting of this nutrition surveillance data
would be done by the Nutrition Unit of the Ministry of Health. Women would
be encouraged to bring their children regularly to the health services for
growth monitoring. The results of these activities would be compiled and



- 87 -                              ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 11
discussed by the Village Councils to increase the villagers' awareness and
understanding of malnutrition and encourage them to take remedial action.
While it is acknowledged that in a take-home food distribution program
there is considerable sharing with other household members, thus reducing
the effectiveness of specific targeting for vulnerable individuals, an on-
site food distribution program is considered too cumbersome and expensive
to administer. The introduction of foods suitable mainly for the target
groups and the nutrition educational program described below should
minimize food 'leakages'.
23.      The project would complement CRS activities by financing a
nutrition educational program and micro-nutrient supplementation, both to
be implemented in the 200 project villages, while the CRS supplementation
program (para 21) would be implemented in all 316 PHC villages. In
addition, funds would be provided to undertake (a) market food and
household shelf surveys by season to find out what kinds of food and what
quantities are available in the markets and village compounds in the wet
and dry seasons; (b) a series of qualitative studies that should help to
shed light on such issues as the dynamics of intra-household food
distribution, food practices and beliefs, and the influence of religion on
nutrition; and (c) a study on Vitamin A deficiency. Research results will
guide the design and development of the nutrition educational program.
24.      The nutrition educational program supported by the project would
address attitudinal constraints that militate against a women's adequate
nutrition during pregnancy and breastfeeding. As highlighte; by an
informal survey undertaken by FNU in 1987, these attitudinal constraints
range from taboos that preclude women and children from eating highly
nutritional food (e.g., eggs, fish and baobab fruits), to women "eating
downw during pregnancy in order to have small babies and thus reduce risk
during delivery, and to the tradition of women and children eating apart
from men and only after the latter have been given the most nutritious
portions and largest share of the meal.  T.e FNU survey also revealed that
variety in meals is very limited, with many families eating only two types
of food per week, and that there is limited consumption of cereals other
than rice, or of legumes, root crops and vegetables. More than 802 of the
families interviewed prepared low-nutrient dense and very watery weaning
food, with a high chance of contamination because of the practice of
cooking food only once a day. A similar practice is reported by the Dunn
Nutrition Unit of MRC and is associated with children's frequent bouts of
diarrhea, which often result in malnutrition and death. The nutrition
educational program supported under the project would address the above-
described constraints, as well as those to be identified by the additional
qualitative studies financed under the project.
25.      The project's nutrition educational program was prepared by the
Nutrition Unit of the Ministry of Health in collaboration with the
nutritionists of CRS, MRC and SCF. The program would use both formal and
informal methods of communication, with special emphasis on participatory
communication techniques (e.g., local musicians, problem dramas, and role
playing). Such techniques encourage communities to discuss their problems
and to seek solutions acceptable to them. Some of these techniques have
proved to be quite successful in helping to expand the coverage of
immunization in The Gambia. The project would finance the services of an
international consultant (4 weeks) to train the educational teams of the
Health Education Unit in problem-solving methods of health education.



- 88                                ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 11
Financing would also be provided for training 160 extension workers at the
PCH level (CHNs, agricultural extension workers, and CDAs) in the delivery
of nutritional messages.
26.      Training would be provided by a central training team, managed by
the Nutrition Unit of tne Ministry of Health and composed of staff from the
Ministry's Health Education and PHC Training Units, FNU, NGOs involved in
nutrition activities (GAFNA, CRS and SCF), and the Dunn Nutrition Unit of
MRC. In addition to organizing the training workshops and seminars, this
team would assess intervention areas for nutrition messages, formulate and
test the messages, and design an interactive educational program for the
villages. The team would coordinate the activities of three health
education teams which would be formed at the regional level to monitor the
work of the extension agents and evaluate the impact of the nutrition
educational program. These regional teams would be composed of the most
senior staff of the Ministry of Health and the NGOs at that level (public
health nurses, public health superintendents, regional nutritional
assistants, SCF health coordinators, and GAFNA's and GFPA's staff). Their
tasks would be to sensitize the region, identify extension agents for
training, identify and train regional musician troupes, and supervise the
village-to-village campaigns. At the village or PHC circuit level (a key
village and its 4-5 village satellites), teams would be formed composed of
VDC members, women kafo leaders, religious leaders, community health
nurses, the VHW, the TBA and other extension agents. Their role would be
to identify suitable messages, identify local musicians/griots to be
trained by the regional groups, and organize the village interactive
performances. While in interpersonal and participatory communication the
educational messages would be very specific (e.g., growth monitoring,
promotion of vitamin/mineral supplementation, promotion of weaning food for
children and special supplements for mothers), the messages developed
through mass media would be multi-purpose and emphasize the
interrelationship of health, hygiene, and family planning with nutrition.
27.      Pregnant and lactating women would receive, in addition to food
supplementation, iron and foliate supplementation and iodine to overcome
severe iron and iodine deficiencies, which are quite c.,mmon in The Gambia
among women and children. Iron deficiency (anemia) is caused by low
dietary iron ir.take and frequent attacks of malaria and worm infestations,
with the malaria season coinciding utth tha *hungry" season (para 9); in
pregnant women it decreases their ability to survive hemorrhage and other
complications of labor and delivery. Iodine-deficiency disorders (goiter)
are particularly widespread in the McCarthy Island Division (MID) ard the
Upper River Division (URD). Another important micro-nutrient deficiency in
The Gambia is riboflavin deficiency (stomatitis), also common among women
and children and caused mainly by inadequate intake of milk and milk
products, particularly during the rainy season when these products become
less available. The project would finance micro-nutrient supplements (iron
and odine) for about 10,0(,0 women per year; This represents about 201 of
the estimated number of women of reproductive age (WRA) in the project
villages. The importance of B-vitamins and their availability from local
foods would be emphasized in the nutrition educational program. The
Gambian health services are currently not giving priority to Vitamin A
deficiency (night blindness), but more research needs tc be done to define
its magnitude nationwide. A study on Vitamin A deficiency would be
financed under the project.



- 89 -                               ANNEX 3-3
Page 9 of 11
28.      Items to be financed under the sub-component include: the micro-
nutrient supplementation program; vc,%icles and their operation and
maintenance costs; preparation of a nutrition educational program and
supporting materials; workshops, meetings and seminars at various
administrative levels to strengthen the educational process; technical
assistance (4 weeks) to train the health educational teams in problem-
solving educational methods; local entertainers' interventions, and
appropriate studies. Adequate operating funds would be provided to ensure
that the officials involved in the nutrition educational program have the
mobility needed to carry out regular supervision.
(4) Family Planning (FP)
29.      The objective of this sub-component is to increase access to FP
services and public awareness about modern FP methods through: (a)
establishment of community-based distribution sites in areas not covered by
the PHC program and in the Greater Banjul area; (b) community health
education activities; and (c) enlistment of the private sector in the
provision of safe and effective distribution of contraceptives.
30.      The FP sub-component is designed to complement a UNFPA family
planning project the implementation of which recently started.
Specifically, the UNFPA project, whose total cost is about US$1.0 million,
aims to (a) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to plan and
manage FP programs; (b) upgrade and expand FP services in all Gambian PHC
villages; and (c) improve FP and MCH data collection, analysis and
utilization at all levels. FP activities under this project would be
supported by an intensive IEC campaign, which is the object of a separate
UNFPA-financed project.  The executing agency for the UNFPA project is the
Ministry of Health, in collaboration with GFPA and SCF. The FP sub-
component would complement the above activities by further expanding the
Ministry's and GFPA's contraceptive distribution (CBD) network to ensure
the largest possible coverage. Emphasis would be placed on involving
private pharmacists and drug dispensers in the promotion of FP services.
GFPA currently operates a fairly successful community-based distribution
(CBD) system at 140 sites throughout the country. The WID project would
assist GFPA in expanding its network of CBDs in the Greater Banjul area.
The population of this area has grown at an estimated 10 per annum during
the past 15 years and now accounts for almost 30Z of the country's
population, while public services, particularly in the social sectors, have
lagged behind. It is proposed to establish 20 new CBD sites in the urban
area as part of the FP sub-component. In addition, 40 CBDs would be
established in rural non-PHC villages within the catchment area of health
centers, to be run by the Ministry of Health, using the TBAs as CBD agents.
The project would support the training and supervision of GFPA's CBD agents
and of Government TBAs. The training would be oriented specifically to the
tasks of motivating potential clients, screening, referring, and
identifying important side effects. As an incentive for the TBAs, it is
proposed to follow GFPA's practice of allowing the CBD agent to charge a
small fixed fee fpr contraceptives.
31.      During preparation of the WID project, close collaboration has
been established between UNFPA and IDA. The Government is being strongly
encouraged to merge the two donors' interventions into a national FP
program and to begin establishing program targets defined in terms of



ANNEX 3-3
- 90 -                       Page 10 of 11
additional health facilities to provide FP services, the number of agents
to be trained in FP, and new acceptors and users of FP services. An FP
adviser to the Ministry of Health, expected to be appointed in the course
of 1990, will assist in this task. Furthermore, the Ministry and GFPA have
been urged to jointly undertake FP activities. Under the WID project, GFPA
and the Ministry of Health would be asked to sign a protocol specifying in
detail those activities that they agree to undertake jointly. As mentioned
in para 7, UNFPA and IDA will finance a contraceptive prevalence survey
that should provide important information to feed into the FP program, in
particular the data needed for a realistic target-setting exercise.
32.       To assist GFPA and the Ministry of Health in implementing the FP
program, a workshop would be organized in Banjul, possibly in the summer of
1990, to prepare an action plan for the FP program, discuss implementation
issues, identify training needs, define the activities that GFPA and the
Ministry of Health would undertake jointly, and set program targets.
Similar workshops would be organized periodically during the life of the
project, possibly with the presence of the two donors, to monitor program
progress and resolve any implementation problems that may arise.
33.       UNFPA has supported FP educational activities for several years
in The Gambia.  In collaboration with UJNESCO, it recently prepared a
substantial multi-media IEC program, which is expected to begin to be
implemented at the end of 1990 and to continue for three years. The WID
project would complement UNFPA's IEC effort by financing participatory FP
educational activities, using the same approach (role playing, problem
dramas, etc.) as in the nutrition educational prograa (para 26). the
educational activities would. in particular, address the issues of male
attitudes towards FP and the impact of religious beliefs on FP practices.
Research undertaken as part of the preparation of the PP sub-component
identified those two issues as having a considerably negative impact olu the
acceptance and adoption of FP. The project would also support family life
educational activities, particularly among rural youth to sensitize them to
the country's population issues and help them understand the importance of
having only as many children as can be provided with adequate care,
nutrition, clothing and education.
34.       An important feature of the FP sub-component would be the role
assigned to the private sector -- pharmacists and drug dispensers working
in pharmacies -- in motivating the public to adopt family planning and in
ensuring the safe and effective use of contraceptives. Such a strategy has
proved effective in other African countries, provided it includes
sufficient incentives such as enabling pharmacists to have easy access to
contraceptive supplies, providing subsidies and packaging difrerent from
that envisaged for the public sector, and the Government publicizing the
availability of contraceptives at pharmacies. A nationwide survey by GFPA
would be conducted under the project to determine private-sector
contraceptive distribution channels, types of contraceptives available
through these channels, and other information needed to improve and expand
the private sector's involvement. Results of the survey would be used by
GFPA to establish guidelines for the private sector's involvement. the



- 91 -                           ANNEX 3-3
Page 11 of 11
project proposes to finance (a) the training of 100 drug dispensers in
motivating potential clients, referring, and identifying dangerous side
effects; and (b) the organization of one-day annual meeting with
pharmacists to discuss their involvement in the FP program.
35.       The Ministry of Health has requested that IDA finance under the
WID project a study on infertility in The Gambia. Although not a matter of
priority, infertility is an important women's health concern and as such
deserves to be included in the project. Furthermore, there is some
evidence that infertility is a problem in The Gambia. The study would be
conducted by local specialists, assisted by an expatriate, and would aim to
determine the prevalence of infertility among Gambian women and its causes.
The findings of the study would be discussed in a three-day national
conference with public officials (including a WHO expert) and professionals
from a variety of backgrounds. An action plan for implementing the study's
recommendations would be drawn up during the conference.
36.       The FP sub-component would finance: the purchase of vehicles for
supervision activities, fuel and materials; the training and supervision of
TBAs and GFPA's CBD agents; the training of drug dispensers and
pharmacists; FP and family life educational activities; the national survey
on PP delivery by the private sector; and the infertility study. UNFPA
would provide the contraceptives to be distributed under the project.
37.       Funds have been provided under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) for the following Safe Motherhood activities: (a) the design of the
TBA evaluation study and the carrying out of the study: and (b) the
contraceptive prevalence survey.



- 92 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF ThE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFORM&TION. EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (IEC) COMPONENT
A.   Background
1.        The general goals of this component are to create awareness
about the concerns and needs of Gambian women and their role in socio-
economic development, and to identify, mobilize and utilize the
communication resources accessible to women in the promotion of project
goals. Specifically, the IEC component aims to:
(a) Create awareness and initiate dialogue among policy-makers and
*gatekeepersZ as to the needs and status of women;
(b) Provide communication support for the various field activities
of the line Ministries;
(c) Provide infrastructure support for the production and broadcast
agencies to make them more responsive to the country's
development needs;
(d) Establish a communication model in 30 villages to enhance
learning as well as accelerate improvement in the status of
women in general;
(e) Provide research support for all communication activities to
ensure quality production and efficient dissemination and to
enhance learning;
(f) Provide a feedback mechanism to enable popular participation in
the formulation, design and implementation of communication
activities through the use of traditional as well as modern
communication media, and to serve as a source of information for
policy-makers; and
(g) Train a cadre of professionals in all the concerned
Ministries so that they become familiar with the processes of
communication and can effectively plan, implement and evaluate
communication activities.
2.        The IEC component of the WID project would provide overall
communication support to each of the other components -- agriculture, safe
motherhood and family planning, and skills development -- as well as
generally promote the status of Gambiar women. The support would include:



- 93 -
Page 2 of 7
the training of front-line workers in communication techniquest the
production and dissemination of materials: qualitativs as well as
quantitative research in communication issues related to project
implementation; and infrastructure development necessary for ensuring
sustainability.
3.        The IEC cor-onent would rely on four public sector institutions
for implementation, and therefore consists of four sub-components. The
lead agency would be the Women's Bureau, located in The Office of the
President. The Bureau would be responsible for coordinating all IEC
activities, both centrally and in the field. Much of the shared resources
of the project would be managed by the Bureau in collaboration with the
concerned line Ministries. The units responsible for IEC within each
sector would be the Agricultural Communication Unit (ACU) of the Ministry
of Agriculture for the agricultural component; the Health Education Unit
(HEU) of the Ministry of Health for the safe motherhood and FP component;
and the Nonformal Education Department of the Ministry of Education for the
skills development component.
4.        This component requires a great deal of coordination, as its
management will be complex. At all three levels of ac:'.on -- the central
level in Banjul, the Divisional level and the village level, -- decisions
on priority programs will have to be taken as to what is logical and most
effective and what best meets the needs of the target population, rural
women.
B.   The Women's Bureau and Central Coordination
5.        Central coordination responsibility for this component would
rest with the IEC Unit of the Women's Bureau. It would have technical and
technological coordination duties, and would supervise the overall
technical progress of the IEC component, coordinate the scheduling of
campaigns and media production for the various sub-components, and assist
in the formulation of messages and delivery of media content. The IEC Unit
would also assist the Project Management Unit (PHU) in ordering and
installing goods purchased for this component.
6.        As part of the infrastructure development related to IEC, the
Women's Bureau would engage the services of two expatriate experts, one of
whom would serve as the Coordinator of this component for a period of three
years. He would be assisted by a national counterpart, whom he would train
and who would receive further training opportunities under the project. The
coordinator would be recruited prior to the start of the project to assist
with preparing a detailed IEC plan and also assist in procurement. Another
technical specialist would be recruited for a two-year period during the
second year of the project as a maintenance speciElist to ensure adequate
maintenance and repair of the electronic equipment to be purchased for this
component. He would also provide training for local counterparts.



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 7
7.        The Women's Bureau would initiate an innovative IEC activity by
providing solar-powered VCR and monitors to 30 project villages. These
video halls would be placed in the larger towns and villages and would
serve as a focus for educational activities. Educational video programs
prepared by the Film Unit for each project component would be screened at
the video halls on a regular weekly basis. Field personnel from the
concerned Ministries would schedule their visits to coincide with showings
of their material so that they may respond to questions or initiate
discussion.
8.        The video halls would be placed in the care of organized women's
groups in each village. Commercial videos could also be aired, for a
charge, by the women's associations, with the income used for maintenance,
rental of commercial videotapes, or other minimal recurrent expenditures.
Repair of the equipment would be assured through the Film Unit and the
maintenance specialist recruited under the project. It is anticipated that
10 video halls will be established in each of project yzars two, three and
four, thereby allowing time for production of an adequate number of
videotapes, preparation of baseline data for a longitudinal survey (para
10), selection of the project villages, pricing surveys, and commodity
procurement. It is important that the Government carefully consider which
video system (PAL, SECAM, etc.) in which it wishes to invest, in light of
any existing plan for the establishment of a TV broadcast system in the
future.
9.        The Women's Bureau would coordinate 200 radio-listening clubs,
which would serve all four sub-components (para 3). These clubs could be
supplemented with field workers on regular visits, who would provide
systematic feedback on the learning conditions. Radio programs would be
duplicated and made available to the villages, on their request, for
further individualized listening.
10.       The Women's Bureau would also coordinate print production
(posters, pamphlets, etc.) for all four sub-components, as well as all IEC-
related research. It would be responsible for a visual literacy survey
prior to the start of the project and other qualitative surveys at a later
date. One major research activity would be the regular qualitative surveys,
which would serve as a baseline for attitudes and behavior concerning
women; this,in turn, would aid in message development and in monitoring the
progress of improving women's status in general. The Bureau would also
assist the production agencies in pre-testing their products prior to mass
production and distribution, thereby ensuring their comprehensibility and
quality. The Bureau would also undertake a longitudinal survey to compare
the 30 'video hall' villages with control groups to determine what impact,
if any, easy access to media may have on a variety of educational, social,
economic and anthropological variables.
11.       In its training activities the Women's Bureau would manage four
IEC workshops, drawing from all the concerned Ministries. In addition, it
would host seminars and conferences where information would be shared and
an exchange of views and dialogue about women's roles would take place. One



- 95 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 7
workshop would be held each year during the first four years of the
project. Apart from long-term technical assistance, the Bureau would
manage short-term technical assistance for the IEC component. Two person-
months of technical assistance would be available each year for the first
five years, totaling 10 person months. This technical assistance would be
in support of training and research activities. The IEC Coordinator and
counterpart would be part of a four-person team that would make a field
visit to Niger to view rural solar-videos in operation; this would take
place as part of project start-up.
12.       Production of IEC materials, with the exception of those for the
Agricultural Communication Unit (ACU), would be delegated to the various
production agencies in The Gambia. Print materials would be contracted with
the Book Production and Materials Resources Unit, video production with the
Film Unit (to be provided a vehicle for the purpose of filming in the
field). The Women's Bureau would coordinate the scheduling of production
and the dissemination of the products. The Bureau would also develop
contractual arrangements with all the production agencies to ensure the
timely preparation of materials, pre-testing of all materials, and quality
production and dissemination, and would also assist them with evaluation
procedures.
13.       Radio Gambia would assure radio support for all key project
activities. This support would include: preparation of radio programs,
production of single-issue series (e.g., women's health), radio spots in
support of campaigns, duplication of tapes for use by radio listening
clubs, and other services as deemed necessary. Radio Gambia would be
provided with the necessary technical training to undertake audience
surveys to assist in improving the quality of its programs. The Bureau
would assist Radio Gambia and the Project Management Unit (PHU) in the
purchase and installation of a transmitter during the first year of the
project, in order to extend Radio Gambia's signal to the whole country. The
Bureau would also assist Radio Gambia with refurbishing two of its radio
studios. The Bureau would make a contractual agreement with Radio Gambia
for production and air time and assist in carrying out regular audience
surveys.
14.       The Women's Bureau would be provided with basic communication
equipment in Banjul and also three 4-WD vehicles to give its staff the
flexibility needed to make frequent monitoring and supervision visits.
Spare parts for these vehicles would also be furnished. Of the three
vehicles, one would be for the use of the Women's Bureau Coordinator and
the counterpart, the second for the Film Unit to assist its staff with
field production, and the third vehicle would be for Radio Gambia, to
ensure both field production anrd maintenance of its transmitter facilities.
15.       In support of its field activities, necessary office equipment
and audio-visual equipment for the Women's Bureau in Banjul would be
provided. Included would be word-processing programs, desk-top publishing
programs to assist in publishing a newsletter and brochures, and



- 96 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 7
computerized research programs (such as SPSS) to assist with the survey
data. The staff would be trained in the use of the computerized equipment.
16.       While the Women's Bureau and Central Coordination sub-component
appears to have high investment costs, they are justified by the fact that
the bulk of the costs would be utilized to make Radio Gambia more efficient
and to extend its reach and improve production quality. The other large
budgetary item is technical assistance, which would be discontinued after
the third year of the project. This technical assistance is justifiable
when one considers the relative inexperience of the Women's Bureau.
17.       Recurrent costs for the sub-component are minimal and mainly
consist of support for the Coordinator's counterpart, vehicle operation and
maintenance, and costs associated with the production of materials. Since
the latter are always highest at the outset, they can also be considered as
investment. There are also some recurrent costs associated with the
monitoring and supervision of the IEC activities.
C.   The Agricultural Communication Unit (ACU)
18.       ACU has an important role in pursuance of the IEC goals. It has
a functioning educational system already in operation which includes studio
and production facilities for videotapes and simple print materials. ACU
has also two video vans, which are in the field 10 days every month. These
video vans would be refurbished through the provision of two video
projectors -- one for each van in the first year of the project -- as well
as new motors for each van, thereby avoiding replacement costs of the vans
themselves.
19.       ACU would support ongoing field activities by agricultural
extension workers, train them in the communication process, and provide
them with the materials needed to conduct extension training. Two workshops
are scheduled to be held exclusively for ACU; one would develop prototype
materials for the field workers, which would then be tested in a workshop
prior to duplication. ACU expects to produce 200 flip-charts (one for each
project village), booklets and cloth posters on a variety of agriculture-
related topics.
20.       ACU would also produce video programs in support of its field
activities and coordinate them with the Women's Bureau for viewing in the
30 project villages to be provided with video halls.
21.       One activity of the agricultural component is the savings
mobilization scheme. This would be supported as part of an annual social
mobilization campaign to recruit new savers, as well as maintenance
activities in project years three, four and five to ensure that the savers
already in the system will remain in it.
22.       One member of ACU would accompany the team making the sLudy tour
to observe solar-video systems in operation in Niger (para 11).



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 7
D.   The Health Education Unit (HEU)
23.       IEC support for the safe motherhood and FP component would be
managed by the Health Education Unit (HEU) of the Ministry of Health. Many
of the issues involved in communicating safe motherhood concepts have been
addressed by a variety of agencies, such as UNFPA and USAID. Hence, the
WID project would focus on activities not yet covered by other projects.
24.       The primary activity would be nutrition education.  Allocations
have been made for staff training, the preparation of materials (both
print and electronic), and field interpersonal activities. One workshop has
been budgeted for year two of the project; this would be a materials
development workshop, as well serve as a trainer for training activities.
Local technical assistance, exclusively for HEU. has been budgeted foz
years two and three of the project (two person months each year).
25.       It is hoped that HEU will make maximum use of the video halls,
as well as the radio-listening clubs, for health education activities.
26.       In addition to the production of equipment, the Food and
Nutrition Unit would be provided with audio-cassette machines to allow its
staff to make field recordings. These recordings would serve both as a
feedback mechanism and as a resource for production by Radio Gambia.
27.       In addition to nutrition activities, ZEC for the safe motherhood
and FP component would provide materials for the training of Traditional
Birth Attendants (TEAs). Five nutrition brochures and a nutrition flip-
chart would be produced. Ten videotapes related to nutrition would also be
developed; they would focus on a variety of nutritional problems and can be
either dramatic or instructional in their content. It is expected that the
topics would include nutritional deficiency diseases, weaning practices and
infant nutrition, prenatal nutrition of mothers, oral rehydration therapy
and diarrheal diseases, pregnancy complications and safe delivery for TBA
training, and other topics as determined by a communication needs
assessment.
E.   The Nonformal Education (NFE) DePartment
28.       This Department of the Ministry of Education would manage IEC
activities in support of the skills development component. Most of these
activities would comprise the preparation of print materials in support of
literacy and numeracy programs. As production costs associated with print
materials are quite high, it is important that they be properly prepared.
29.       To assist in the initial preparation of the print materials,
three person months of expatriate technical assistance would be provided.
This assistance would focus on visual literacy, assist in training artists
to create illustrations for this particular audience, and assist in



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 7
developing prototypes and .re-testing them. Three IEC workshops would be
conducted to train literacy teachers in the use of the materials.
30,       One person from the Nonformal Education Department would
accompany the team that would make the study tour of solar-video centers in
Niger (para 11). The Department would purchase 60 audio-cassette
recorders, to be used by the teachers during the literacy sessions. It
would also have access to the 200 radio-listening clubs and to the radio
and audio-cassettes they would be provided under the Women's Bureau and
Central Coordination sub-component.
31.       It is presumed that the Department already has sufficient staff
to carry out these IEC activities. Therefore, no local personnel costs,
other than for field testing of materials, are envisioned.
F.   Proiect Preparation Facility (PPF)
32.       Funds have been provided under the Project Preparation Facility
for the establishment of the IEC Coordinator's Office (salary of the
Coordinator for six months) and for surveys (visual literacy, media
assessmiat and qualitative surveys).



- 99 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPONENT FOR STRENGTHENING OF THE WOMEN'S BUREAU
1.        The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity of
the Women's Bureau for policy and program formulation, advice, awareness
creation, and monitoring and evaluation of the impact of women's
development programs. The strategy envisaged includes changes in the
Bureau's organizational structure and staffing, the training of staff, and
the provision of technical assistance, as well as investments in a new
headquarters building, furniture, equipment and vehicles. The component
consists of two sub-components: general strengthening of the Bureau, and
monitoring and evaluation.
A. General Strengthening of the Women's Bureau
2.        This sub-component continues and expands on the assistance
currently provided by UNIFEM, and includes the following:
a.   Reinforcement of the Research Unit through the provision of a
researcher and social scientist; the unit's research program
would focus on small-scale and special surveys to supplement
national data programs.
b.   Some decentralization of the Bureau's activities throurh the
work of field officers (6 women and 5 men), the training of
women leaders, and the setting up of meetings, workshops and
seminars in the Regions in order to expand the outreach to
women, gain a better understanding of their needs, and
facilitate the collection of data and information for research.
c.   Strengthening of the Bureau's capability to collaborate and
negotiate with other agencies, to ensure that their programs
include women-oriented activities, through the provision of two
planners.
d.   Improvement of the Bureau's documentation and reference service
through the provision of a documentalist and documentation and
subscriptions.
e.   Enhancement of the Bureau's communications program through the
provision of an editor and of funds for producing publications,
including a newsletter.
f.   A new headquarters building for the Bureau, together with
furniture and equipment, and vehicles for the Bureau's staff
plus funds for o'"erations and maintenance.
3.        The Research Unit should be able to provide both basic research
on the situation of women in The Gambia and applied research of direct



- 100 -                          LNNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 9
relevance to the VID project. Research topics being considered include:
traditional practices affecting the role, status and material circumstances
of Gambian women, their contribution to food production, health problems,
access to credit and technology, and business and employment opportunities.
Priorities need to be established and proposals prepared for the research
projects that should be undertaken first.  In view of the manpower
shortage, it is advisable to group the research topics and limit the
proposals to a few of special interest for the WID project   For instance,
these may be on (a) gender relationships in rural households, with a focus
on agriculture and food production; and (b) health-care practices and
beliefs (traditional and modern), including health services delivery and
food preparation practices. Research in these fields should combine macro-
level surveys with in-depth, holistic studies in limited areas (a few
representative villages) based on qualitative methods and analysis. This
approach would not only provide an answer to the question of how a
particular phenomenon, opinion or practice is disseminated within a
populiatikn, but also may show how registered social patterns have come
about. Such qualitative studies proviae more useful knowledge and are
cheaper to implement, requiring less manpower than quantitative studies,
although they require a somewhat longer time in the field. As the Bureau
needs the assistance of a consultant to formulate an appropriate research
program, technical assistance (one person-month) has been provided for that
purpose under the PPF.
4.        The head of the Research Unit should be knowledgeable about
qualitative as well as quantitative methods and analysis, and preferably
should be a social anthropologist or rural sociologist. Consultants and
outside evaluators would be utilized, but the Unit would also be
strengthened by providing a social scientist. It would be useful to
encourage Gambians studying abroad for a social sciences degree to do some
of the field work for their thesis as part of the Bureau's research
program.
5.        The existing offices of the Women's Bureau are not adequate and
need expensive repairs and renovations that would not be cost-effective.
Therefore, the construction of a new headquarters building is justified,
subject to agreement being reached on the appropriate size, standards and
cost of the building and on the availability of a suitable site. A firm of
architects/engineers should be hired to prepare plans, specifications, cost
estimates and bidding documents, and at a later stage to supervise
construction. Since a local firm could do this work, local technical
assistance (7-1/2 person-months) has been provided under the PPF for the
design of the headquarters building and for the preparation of bidding
documents.
6.        Research and frequent progrrm evaluations are extremely
important to detect at an early stage any unintended consequences of
programs and ensure that the particular target group actually benefits. In
light of this linkage between research and evaluation, the Bureau's
Research and Monitoring and Evaluation Units should work closely together.
At mid-point during project implementation there should be an assessment of
the possibility of merging the two units.



- 101 -                         ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 9
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.        A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit will be established
within the Women's Bureau. Initially, its main functions will be to
provide the Project Management Unit (PHU) with relevant and timely
information for the monitoring of the WID project and to measure its
impact. As the Unit develops its capabilities and gains more experience,
it will also assume responsibility for monitoring and evaluating other
women's development programs and projecus.
8.        The design of the M&E system for the WID project is tased on the
concept of a logical framework for the project, i.e., its hierarchy of
objectives. Each project activity or component can be seen as requiring
certain resources and achieving certain results. First, each component
requires a supply of physical, financial and staff inputs, the use of which
leads to specific project outputs; these, in turn, achieve certain
immediate effects, either intended or unintended, on the target population.
In due course the effects accumulate to produce an overall level of impact,
which if project intervention works as intended, contributes to the overall
development objectives. This four-tier hierarchy of inputs, outputs,
effects and impact provides a systematic way of viewing the many objectives
and tasks of this multi-component project, as well as a logical structure
for management ts. plan, execute and monitor them. At each level of the
hierarchy a set of minimum objectives can be defined and appropriate
indicators selected to determine whether or not they have been reached.
The success of the various components can be measured and reported on
regularly through the use of such carefully chosen indicators.
9.        As monitorinx provides . continuous assessment of the
functioning of project activities and of the use of project inputs in the
context of implementation schedules and design expectations, the M&E Unit
would help management to implement the project by (a) designing and
organizing a regular and timely flow of relevant data and information; (b)
analyzing the information to check whether pre-set goals are being achieved
and to assess the extent to which the project has successfully translated
the physical and financial resources made available to it into the intended
activities; and (c) identifying the reasons for any delays or constraints
that may arise.
10.       Considering the nature of the WID project, monitoring would be
the responsibility of each of the agencies responsible for implementing its
components or sub-components, as an essential part of the management of
their specific activities. The H&E Unit would coordinate the monitoring
activities of the various component agencies and collate and interpret the
information they provide. In collaboration with all of the agencies and
ministries involved in project implementation, the M&E Unit would design
and institute a monitoring system based on periodic reporting of a number
of key indicators of project operations and performance. These indicators
would be compared with the physical and financial targets set annually in
the work plan and budget prepared by t'.e PMU and approved by the Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC). All project agencies and ministries involved



- 102 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 9
in implementation would be responsible for submitting to the M&E Unit the
required information on a quarterly, seasonal or annual basis, as
appropriate.
11.       The August 30, 1989, consultants' reports on monitoring and
evaluation and the September 1989 report of the Consolidation Workshop for
the WID Proiect contain lists of proposed indicators of inputs and outputs
for each project component. These lists should be reviewed in detail and,
if necessary, revised by the management of each component or sub-component
in collaboration with the M&E Unit and the PMU which will specify the type
and frequency of information required. Having selected the most appropriate
indicators, the component managers should attach to them quantified targets
on a quarterly, annual or seasonal basis to match the reporting schedules
and work plan.
12.       The M&E Unit would also carry out these activities necessary for
evaluation of project effectiveness and, to the extent possible, the
project's impact in the context of its stated objectives. These activities
would also involve the full collaboration of both the monitoring staff and
the management of each implemp"ting agency, being primarily designed to
meet the information needs of management. Since the objective of
evaluation is to assess the extent to which the project activities or
outputs have reached the defined target population and achieved the
intended impact, it provides a basis for corrective action, if necessary,
during project implementation, as well as for ex-post evaluation.
13.       The August 30, 1989, consultant's report on M&E and the
September 1989 report of the Consolidation Workshop also contain lists of
proposed project effects and impact indicators for each component. A
Baseline Survey, a Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) Survey, and
Project Services Monitoring Surveys would be undertaken to cover the main
data collection requirements for those indicators, revised, when necessary,
by the M&E Unit in collaboration with the management of each component.
14.       The Baseline Survey, as a key element in the M&E design for the
WID project, would focus on women living in the 200 villages where the
majority of project activities would be concentrated. These women comprise
the project's primary target population, although some of its aspects
would also have a nationwide impact. The purpose of the survey is to
provide:
(a) A set of representative and contemporary information on the
demographic, agricultural, social and economic characteristics
of the target population.
(b) An empirical framework that can serve to confirm the importance
of key project initiatives (e.g. savings mobilization, input
distribution, extension services, skills development, and
improved healthprogram) and the relative emphasis to be placed
on each of these in       selected villages.



- 103 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 9
(c) Agricultural, education and health related data on the situation
of women that can be used in the design of the project
components.
(d) The first, ex-ante set of data in a phased series of
investigations designed to provide a way to assess changes in
the circumstances of women. In conjunction with the findings of
the component-specific surveys to be undertaken during project
implementation, the KAP Survey and the Social Dimension of
AdJustment (SDA) Household Survey Program, the Baseline Survey
should ultimately give an indication of the overall socio-
economic changes resulting from the project.
15.       The Baseline Survey, concentrating on the 200 target villages
(para 14), would use this village list as its sampling framework.
Respcndents would be women residents (aged 15 years or more) in the target
villages. The respondents would only be women because the aim is to gain
factual information about the target beneficiaries and it is assumed there
is no information about women's activities that could be better supplied by
men. A sample of 50 of the 200 project villages is proposed, with a
maximum of Six women interviewed per village, making a total of 300. While
one could argue for a larger sample s'.ze, the survey planned could easily
over-extend ti. capacity of the M&E Unit, and therefore the size of the
sample should be kept as small as possible. A final decision would have to
be made after the survey questionnaire has been revised and again tested in
the field. Elements of the survey, particularly those related to basic
socio-economic parameters, would be repeated at mid-term, at the end of the
project, and two years after project completion. Other parts of the survey
would be modified at each of these intervals to better achieve the key
objective of measuring any improvement in the circumstances of women in the
light of the project activities that have taken place. Insofar as
possible, the same respondents would be interviewed each time the survey is
repeated. The ultimate goal is to produce a descriptive series of data
reflecting the living and working conditions of women and their knowledge
and practices over a period of seven years. To the extent that these
changes can be related to project activities in the context of the overall
monitoring program, an estimate of project effects and impact can be made.
16.       The Knowledte. Attitudes and Practices (KAP) Survey would
complement the Baseline Survey and support the information, education and
comunnication (IEC) component. This survey would use a probability sample
drawn from the whole population, including women and men. Its purpose is
to provide:
(a) A set of representative and contemporary information on
the knowledge, attitudes and pra-tices of the population
with regard to the status and situation of women and the
most important gender issues.
(b) Empirical data that can be used to assist in designing the IEC
component, particularly the messages that should be



- 104 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 9
transmitted, the media used, and the emphasis given to the materials
relevant to each project component.
(c)  An initial survey ("ex-ante') which, when repeated during   or
after project implementatioii, would provide a way to assess the
success of the project in changing the awareness and attitudes of the
population with regard to the circumstances of women; also, the
extent to which working, domestic and harmful traditional practices
have improved.
17.       For the same reasons as for the Baseline Survey, it is proposed
that the sample size for the KAP Survey should be 300, with six respondents
to be selected within each enumeratien area; 50% of them should be female
and 50% male. Interviewing men is important, because their attitudes and
practices may constrain women's opportunities for improvement. The
questionnaire already prepared needs to be revised and again tested in the
field. The survey would be repeated at mid-term and at the end of the
project to measure any changes in awareness and practices that may have
taken place as a result of the project. Owing to the sensitive nature of
some of the questions, an effort should be made to ensure anonymity of the
respondents and a new sample would be drawn each time the survey is
repeated. This approach is more appropriate for this type of survey, which
resembles market research investigations, and for which repeated interviews
may themselves influence the attitudes of the respondents.
18.       The Proiect Services -onitoring Surveys would be small-scale, ad
hoc surveys designed to achieve particular objectives. They would be used
primarily to monitor the effects and impact of those project sub-components
that involve extension to women of improved practices, education and
training; these include, for example, the crop production, horticultural
and livestock extension activities of the agricultural component, the
numeracy/literacy and other skills training of the skills development
component, and the family planning and nutrition education activities of
the safe motherhood and FP component.
19.       These surveys will use a 'market research" approach to provide
information on whether the services are reaching women (beneficiary
contacts) and whether they meet the women's needs (adoption rate of the
recommendations). To be useful to management for timely decision-making,
the surveys should produce regular and timely information and results
sufficiently disaggregated to allow managers to compare farmers' responses
in different areas; they should also be capable of distinguishing among
women used as change agents, as group leaders or as contacts in the
extension process, and other women not directly contacted.
20.       To satisfy these requirements, the surveys should be kept short
and simple, aiming for a minimum workload, and be a routine component of
project monitoring, conducted at least annually. The actual timing of the
surveys would depend on the nature of the project services provided in any
given period. The sampling framework for the surveys would be women
residents in a number of the target villages included in a particular



- 105 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 7 of 9
extension campaign. An appropriate sample size would be 50-70 women in
total.
21.       It would not be possible for the M&E Unit alone to implement all
surveys of this nature, nor is it desirable that it do so. Hence, the
surveys should be designed jointly with the implementing agencies
responsible for particular extension campaigns. Data collection should
preferably be carried out by the supervisors of those campaigns, with
enumerators seconded from the M&E Unit, as required. The M&E officer and
assistants of the M&E Unit would assist in the design and implementation of
such surveys and also perform a quality-control function. They would
jointly carry out the survey analyses and preparation of the necessary
reports with the staff of the extension agency.
22.       Diagnostic studies may also be required when specific
implementation problems are identified during M&E activities. These should
be organized in a similar fashion as the Project Services Monitoring
Surveys, though they are likely to commence with an initial appraisal of
the situation by senior evaluation and technical staff.
23.       The impact evaluation proaram should be an integrated program,
using both primary and secondary sources of data. The entire program is
designed to be compatible with and to make use of other data-collection
activities that will proceed in parallel in The Gambia, particularly the
SDA Household Survey Program and the National Agricultural Sample Survey.
The SDA Household Survey Program includes a Priority Survey to be carried
out during the second half of 1990, and an Intensive Survey and a Community
Survey in 1991, to gather complementary and disaggregated socio-economic
data at different levels. The SDA program will also help strengthen the
Women's Bureau through the provision of a vehicle, equipment, staff
training, and a WID specialist (sociologist) for the Research Unit.
24.       The M&E Unit would be headed by an M&E officer, with
responsibility for implementation of the survey programs and the collation
of all WID project monitoring data for the PMU. The M&E officer would be
responsible to the Executive Secretary of the Women's Bureau and liaise
closely with the WID Project Manager. Under the M&E officer would be two
full-time monitoring and evaluation assistants. Their primary task would
be to assist the M&E officer in the compilation of WID project progress
reports and to supervise primary data-collection activities. They would
also assist in evaluating the Bureau's other projects and programs, as and
when requested by its other units. One assistant should be given
particular responsibility for the M&E Unit's computing facilities, the
processing of survey data, and management of the data base. The other
assistant should be responsible for supervising field work and the training
and management of enumerators. Despite this division of responsibilities,
both assistants should receive training in computing and survey
methodologies to allow them to share the workload at times of peak
activity.
25.       This sub-component's cost includes the costs of a vehicle,
computing facilities and equipment, staff training, technical assistance,



- 106 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 8 of 9
surveys, the personal costs of the M&E officer and the two assistants, and
the M&E Unit's operating costs. The sub-component includes the provision
of an internationally recruited M&E consultant (7 person/months) whose
periodic inputs would include technical guidance and support for
computerized data processing and analysis, the final detailed design of the
monitoring system, project services monitoring surveys, diagnostic studies
design and analysis, and the final evaluation study. The objective is to
provide the M&E Unit with the capability to design, process and analyze its
primary data collection activities.
26.       An M&E Coordination Committee, chaired by the WID Project
Manager and with the Women's Bureau M&E officer as Secretary, would be
established to coordinate the design and activities of the various
monitoring and evaluation systems and the dissemination of information.
The Committee would be composed of the coordinator or senior manager of
each of the project components and the person in each component with
responsibility for overall monitoring. NGOs responsible for implementing
project activities should also be represented.
27.       Before commencement of the project, the M&E Committee should
meet monthly to review plans for a Progress Reporting System. The detailed
design of this system for each project component should be prepared by the
component implementing agencies, with support from the M&E Unit. The lists
of indicators (paras 11-13) provide a starting point for designing the
system. The component implementing agencies should finalize their
respective lists of indicators and attach realistic targets to each one,
against which actual progress can be measured; for most indicators,
quarterly implementation targets should be required. The M&E Committee
should agree on a schedule for the submission of progress reports to the
M&E Unit and the key indicators to be reported. It is suggested that after
project co"mencement most of the indicators of project inputs and outputs
should be reported on a quarterly basis. The Committee should then also
meet on a quarterly basis to review the findings of the monitoring system
and the reasons for any delays in report submission. Plans for the
progress reporting system should be finalized and reviewed at the workshop
to be held to assess the results of the Baseline and KAP Surveys (see para
29 below).
28.       Standard reporting formats should be developed within each
component and for submission to the M&E Unit insofar as possible. This
may, however, be difficult in the short term owing to the diverse nature
and, in some cases, staggered implementation of some of the sub-components.
All progress reports should establish the current status of the activities
being monitored and the accomplishments of the work program. The progress
re-orted should always be compared with what was planned, and any current
or potential problems should be discussed. Each progress report should
review all activities in the work program for the particular period.
29.       Funds have been provided under the PPF to carry out the Baseline
Survey and the KAP Survey before the start of the project. A one-week
workshop should be held following completion of the analysis of the first
round of the Baseline and KAP Surveys to present their findings.



- 107 -                          ANNEX 35-
Page 9 of 9
Participants should be invited from all project components and sub-
components. This workshop should also be used to explain fully the role of
the M&E Unit and to clear up any outstanding issues in the design of the
Progress Reporting System. Initial discussions should be held to identify
and commence plann:. ; of the first Project Service Monitoring Surveys. The
emphasis in the workshop should be on presenting the M&E Unit as a full
partner of the component implementing agencies. The workshop should be
held annually, with a similar format and timed to review the results of any
survey investigations carried out following the rainy season.



ANNEX 3-6
- 108 -                        Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE FUND COMPONENT
1.        The Fund would assist in financing small projects or programs
designed to improve the living and/or working standards of women and
children in The Gambia, particularly those in the poorest and most
vulnerable groups. The project or program should be innovative and of high
developmental priority, and may include activities such as vegetable
gardening, well-digging, soap production, pottery-making, sewing,
establishment of an ice plant, and other innovative activities that address
the urgent needs of these vulnerable groups.
2.        The proceeds of the Fund would be made available, as grants and
on a matching basis, to eligible non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for
purposes of the projects or programs referred to above. The matching funds
to be provided by an NGO from its own and other non-Fund sources should be
at least 25X of the total cost of the project or program.
3.        The following criteria would be applied in determining the
eligibility of an NGO to receive grants from the Fund:
(a) The NGO must be registered with the Government of The
Gambia in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations;
(b) The NGO must be able to contribute the 25? matching funds
referred to in para 2 above;
(c) The NGO must have a good knowledge of the local situations
and demonstrate (i) a proven institutional track record,
and (ii) a work program in which the proposal submitted by
the NGO is well integrated;
(d) The proposal must (i) show all costs to be covered from
sources other than the Fund; (ii) identify those other
sources; and (iii) include reasonable estimates of the
value of in-kind contributions to be made by the NGO in the
estimates of the total cost of the project or program and
the NGO's contribution to such costs;
(e) The proposal should (i) aim at improving the living and/or
working standards of the project or program beneficiaries,
who should comprise the poorest and most vulnerable groups;
and (ii) be action-oriented and demonstrate an innovative
approach to addressing the issues of women in development,



- 109 -                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
such an innovative approach to include replication in a new
geographical area or areas of an innovative approach
already tested in one place;
(f) The proposal should (i) identify any existing kafos within
the project or program area; (ii) describe the activities
of such kafos; and (iii) show how the project or program
would work with their activities;
(g) The proposal should (i) be technically feasible,
justifiable and appropriate to the social and cultural
environment, and be manageable by beneficiaries
participating in carrying it out; (ii) identify the
recurrent cost requirements to be generated by the project
or program; (iii) show how these costs would be met; and
(iv) to the extent practicable, reflect the active
participation of beneficiaries in the design of the project
or program;
(h) If it involves training and research, the proposal should
(i) identify the necessary follow-up action as an integral
part of the project or program; (ii) where the training
involves the acquisition of skills of any kind, demonstrate
how the beneficiaries of such training would be expected to
use the acquired skills; and (iii) describe the methods of
procuring any necessary training and/or research materials;
(i) The proposal should identify (i) the owners of any
equipment, materials, building or land to be provided under
the project or program, and (ii) the measures to be taken
to ensure that ownership of such equipment, materials,
buildings or land resides exclusively with the
beneficiaries of the project or program and not,
opportunistically, with any other individual, groups,
organizations or village;
(j) The proposal should (i) specify how the project or program
would relate to available government services in the
project or program area; and (ii) identify all in-kind
resources within the project or program and, to the extent
practicable, estimate their value and show the different
sources of such in-kind resources; and
(k) The proposal should include a monitoring and evaluation
plan compatible with the monitoring and evaluation programs
of the relevant sectoral components of the proposed WID
project to which the project or program relates.
4.        The Fund would be administered by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) of the WID project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IDA, including the following:



- 110 -                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 4
(a) An NGO wishing to apply for a grant from the Fund should
furnish to the PMU, with a copy to the Chairman of the
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), its project or
program proposal.
(b) PMU's ProJect Manager should promptly review every such
proposal in the light of the criteria described in para 3
above, and not later than two weeks after receipt of any
such proposal, transmit to the PCC the PMU's written
recommendations on the proposal.
(c) The PCC should promptly consider the PMU's recommendations
and approve or deny the application for the grant, giving
in every case of denial, in writing, the PCC's reasons for
denying the application.
(d) As soon as possible after the application for a grant has
been approved, the PMU and the NGO concerned should enter
into an agreement, the terms and conditions of which shall
have been approved by IDA. This agreement should, inter
alia, require the NGO (i) to maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures of the NGO in respect of the project or
program to be financed from proceeds of the grant made
available to the NGO; (ii) permit these records and
accounts to be audited by the auditors required to audit
the records and accounts of the Ministries, departments,
and agencies of the Government participating in the WID
project at the times and in the manner required under the
Development Credit Agreement (Women in Development Project)
to be entered into between the Government and IDA; (iii)
procure goods, works and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of any such grant at a reasonable price, account
also being taken of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them; and (iv) use such
goods, works and services exclusively for carrying out the
project or program.
(e) The maximum grant to any one NGO would not exceed in the
aggregate US$50,000 equivalent.
(f) The NGO to which a grant has been made should not later
than three months after the end of the first and the second
six-month period of the Government's fiscal year, furnish
semiannual reports, accompanied by statements of
expenditure, to the PMU showing progress in carrying out
the project or program financed from the grant.



ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
(g) The NGO to which a grant has been made should open an
account at a commercial bank, to which should be credited
the proceeds of the grant made available to the NGO for
purposes of the project or program and the matching
counterpart funds to be contributed by the NGO to the
project or program. The project account should be used
exclusively for expenditures to be made under the proJect
or program.
(h) The NGO should not later than three months &fter completion
of a project or program for which it has received a grant,
furnish to the PMU, with a copy to the PCC md to IDA, a
project or program completion report which, inter al1i,
states whether the objectives of the project or program for
which a grant has been made have been fulfilled.



WmIn Owvelop.smt
Project Cost rray
Dalast                                      lSt                                     I Total
~~~~ ~-     ~-        ~~-~~ -  -  - - # Foreign              Baso
Local      Foreign        Total           Local     Foreign       Total ichenge                Costs
A. Agriculture
1. Extension serv.for crops      863000.0   2084767.8   2937787.8           105747.4    268742.4   3864489.8             71.0          2.9
2. Extension serv. hort;cul.      526600.0    1664426.3    2091026.3          66022.8    194410.2    259432.6             74.8          2.1
8. Extension Livestock           6866.0    81856174.4   3870674.4            84634.8    895697.8    480232.6            82.3           3.8
4. Private Input Rotallers       1071880.0   6878384.3   7950244.3          1326833.2    863749.6    986382.7            86.6          7.9
6. Women's Cooperative Orps.      420160.0      158398.7     678648.7         62073.6     19706.6     71780.2             27.4          0.6
8. Food Stor. Process.Nutr.      417778.4    2396731.7    2814610.1          51643.9    297650.9    349194.8             85.2          2.8
7. Post Harvest Equip.          1182272.6    1813298.5    2995570.6         146281.6    225377.4    371658.9            60.6           3.0
8. Women's Savings              109579e.0      781688.9    1877464.9        135883.5     97262.6    232936.1            41.6           1.9
9. Agricultural Coordinator      249080.0      145683.7     394663.7         30708.7     18267.1     48965.7             36.9          0.4
Sub-Total                          6502036.4   19008464.3   25610490.7         804328.8   2360744.4   3165073.3             74.6         26.2
8. Skills Development
1. Strength. Dep. Comm. Dev.     1961695.2    7661932.3    9603627.5        239951.0    915688.0   1191617.1              79.7          9.5
2. Skills Dev. Program          8828021.3      928892.8    7754914.1       845403.2    116745.0    962148.2              12.6          7.7
3. Improv. Access Credit         1969820.0   2903383.1    4873183.1         241889.8    362723.6    664613.3             59.6          4.8
Sub-Total                          10747538.5   11484188.2   22231724.7       1327243.9   1431034.6   27S8278.5             51.7         22.0
C. Safe Motherhood and FP
1. Risk Identif. and Referr.     1469668.0    1782166.7    3241234.7        178684.2    223504.1    402138.3              55.0          3.2
2. Alarm Evacuation              1688141.6     636899.3    1624040.9        134737.5     66756.4    201493.9             33.0          1.6
3. Women's Nutrition             1955272.8    1455333.7    3410866.5       242469.6    186892.5    423162.2              42.7          3.4
4. Family Planning                896661.6    1009968.4    1760830.0        88667.1    12659.2    211688.2              69.2          1.7
Sub-Total                           5198544.0    4783388.2    9981912.2        641838.4    696812.2   1238450.8             47.9          9.9
D. Inform. Educ. Comunic.
1. Safe Motherhood IEC           163280.0      624907.6     688187.6        19987.1      65396.0     86383.1             76.3          0.7
2. Skill Development IEC         102960.0    474532.6       677492.6        12774.2      68875.0     71649.2             82.2          0.6
3. Agriculture IEC               616672.0    1479211.6    1996883.6         88s16.8    184111.6    247628.2              74.1          2.0
4. Women Bureau IEC              798720.0   12958427.6   13752147.5         98892.7   1607529.1   1706221.8             94.2          13.6
Sub-Total                           1681632.0   16432079.0   17013711.0        194970.7   1916911.6   2110882.3             90.7         18.8
E. Streng. Women Bureau
1. Strength. Women's Bureau     4877282.6   3101387.2   7978676.2          e626s5.8    387264.3    989910.1             38.9           7.9
2. Monitoring & Evaluation       8032985.0   1237814.6    2041110.6         99422.1    168817.4    263239.5             6".6           2.0
Sub-Total                           56880684.6   4339261.7   10019785.7       702077.9    641071.7   1243149.6              43.3          9.9
F. proJ. manag. unit                1329744.0    1391780.6    2721504.6       164406.6    173249.1    337656.6              61.1          2.7
G. The Fund                        2056006.0   2616000.0    4665660.0         252171.2    262171.2    604342.4              49.6          4.0
H. Project Preparation Fund         3837600.0   5658120.0    9495720.0        471251.6    706877.4   1178129.0              69.6          9.4
____________  ---------- ----------        ---------               ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    : 
Total BASELINE COSTS              36927676.9   64112172.0  101039848.9       4668289.2   7977672.2  12686961.4              63.6        100.0
Physical Contingencies           1801991.0    3666193.6    8637184.6       228672.1    442331.7    685903.8              66.4          6.3      Q z
Price Contingencies             8864677.9    6148973.2   16018061.2       1123070.0    739591.5   1862661.4              39.7         14.9      m
____ ____-_-__ ____ ___ ___ ___ -_                   _    _ -_          _    _ ---------  ----------- ----         oI 
Total PROJECTS COSTS              47698745.8   73826338.7  121426034.5       5904931.2   9159595.4  15664526.6              60.8        126.2      rt 
4/26/1996 11:23



Women In Developeent
Summry Accounts Cost Summary
Dalasl                                       USn                                       S Total
-----------       S Foreign          Base
Local      Foreign         Total           Local     Foreign        Total        Efchaoe           Cost.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                       183788.0    2670681.0    4608569.0          223760.8   S3352S.S    569376.8               59.2           4.6
B. Equipenat and Furniture            699408.8    2703866.4    8403180.2          85948.7    3a6275.9    422224.8              79.4           3.4
C. Vehicles and Spare Parts           96W40.0    5988481.7    6938521.7          117871.0    742987.8    880858.8              86.8           6.9
D. Materials                          678104.0    9274420.8    990624.8           82573.2   1151983.2   1234568.4              93.2           9.8
E. Training
1. Local                         7921862.4           o.a    7921862.4         982861.3         6.0    982861.3               0.0           7.8
2. Foreign                              0.0    3503028.4    3503028.4              0.0    434818.9    434018.9             1e0.0           3.6
Sub-Total                            7921862.4    3503028.4   11424890.8         982881.3    434618.9   1417480.2              30.7          11.3
F. Specialists Serviees
1. Local Speclalists              733408.0           0.0      733408.0         90993.5         0.0      90993.5              0.0           0.7
2. Foreign Specialists                  0.0   14827291.S   14827291.5              0.0   1839614.3   1839814.3             100.0          14.7
Sub-Total                             733408.0   14827291.5   1566699.S           A0993.S   1839814.3   1930807.9              9s.3          15.4
G. Research and Evaluation            728728.0    2266506.4    2995234.4          90412.9    281204.3    371617.2              7S.7           3.0
H. Credit                            4018066.0   10489796.1   14607796.1         493838.7   1306136.9   1799974.6              72.3          14.4
I. Project Preparation Funds        383760.6   65858120.6    9495720.0           471261.8    706877.4   1178129.0              59.6           9.4
-----  ---------------- ----------- -=-------------- ----------- -------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             21403099.2   57381988.3   78785085.5         2639561.3   7135323.2   9774824.5              72.8          78.0
----------------                            ------------------------------------ --               -----------
rl. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel                        8820680.0           0.0    8820680.0        1094377.2          0.0   1094377.2              0.0           8.7
S. Travel Allowance                  2293944.0      12090.0    2306034.0         284598.8       1509.7    288108.4              0.6           2.3
C. Vehicle Oper. and Maint.         3114234.0    3642877.7    8758911.7          381361.9    4569e4.8    838328.6              S3.9           8.7
0. Equipment Maintenance              100131.2     388608.4      488139.6         12112.6      48460.6     66563.2             79.6           0.6
E. Office Supplies                   496878.5    134822S.6    1842102.1           60598.1    187956.6    228548.8              78.1           1.8
F. Media Production                   846112.0    1341184.0    1687296.0          41888.4    167473.S    209341.9              79.s           1.7
0. miscellaneous                      353600.0          0.0      863800.0         43871.0          0.0     43871.0              0.0           0.3
--------- -  -  -- - ------ - -                              -------- - - ------
Total RECURRENT COSTS               15524677.7    673018S.7   22254783.4        1918787.9    842349.0   2761138.9              30.2          22.0
----------- ----------------
Total 8ASEUINE COSTS                36927678.9   64112172.0  101039848.9        4568289.2   7977672.2  12635961.4              63.6         10".0
Physical Contingencies           1801991.0    s858193.6    5367184.5          223572.1    442331.7    685903.8              68.4           5.3
Price Contingencies              8866077.9    8148973.2   15019301.2         1123070.0    739591.5   1862661.4              39.7          14.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS               47593746.8   73826338.7  121420684.S         5904981.2   9159595.4  15s64528.8              60.8         120.2
~==                             ==             ====                                     ==
4/26/1990  11:24
0I 
o 1*



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Dalasi
90/91        91/92        92/93        93/94         94/96        95/96        Totol
A. Agriculture
1. Extension serv.for crops      1016419.9      817117.7     618062.1     604666.2      532621.4     101278.1    3590185.4
2. Extension serv. hortlcul.      262731.2      898149.4     457113.4     446656.4      475174.3      84205.6    2823930.2
3. Extension Livestock            3093374.6     568142.5     289701.1     286644.2      304762.0      75241.S    4697865.8
4. Private Input Retailers       2954504.7    1932165.1    1759399.0    1314841.3       863730.1    324286.4    9148928.6
5. Women's Cooperative Orps.       80248.4      158113.7     164S35.0     180595.2      175113.7      15780.5     774386.5
6. Food Stor. Process.Nutr.        747818.2    1100492.5     772359.3     434741.8      263029.9      45765.8    3384207.4
7. Post Harvect Equip.            797141.3      610789.2     631688.9     874772.4      745302.1     147694.2    3807386.1
8. Women's Savings                499524.1      377506.1     564372.0     430914.B      460594.6     109502.3    2442413.6
9. Agricultural Coordinator        69827.4       96902.2     103228.6     1100es.5      117266.8      28165.9      525396.4
Sub-Total                            9521589.6    6559378.4    5340457.3    4583737.5    3937594.8      931920.4   30874678.1
S. Skills Development
1. Strength. Dep. Comm. Dev.     3099779.7    2975030.4    1897603.8    1968635.0    1485107.4       358580.0   11784736.3
2. Skills Dev. Program           2123209.5    2146740.6    2039030.4    1663795.0    1786406.1       419702.1   10178883.8
3. Improv. Access Credit            4192.1    1362316.2    1439010.0    1520580.0    1607367.1            0.0    5933465.4
Sub-Total                            5227181.3    6484087.3    5375844.2    5153010.0    4878880.8      778282.2   2789708S.6
C. Safe Motherhood and FP
1. Risk Identif. and Reforr.       41303.7    1545041.7    1766546.3    627180.6        1762S1.5       6964.0    4163287.9
2. Alarm Evacuation                484601.3     285433.5     571954.7     647498.3      139672.6      34227.2    2163287.6
3. Women's Nutrition              867722.7      864291.0     788899.4     845974.8      899651.4     138555.9    440S095.2
4. Family Planning                405062.2      679S70.2     427691.6     338188.4      261611.9      45164.7    21S7286.9
Sub-Total                            1798889.8    3374338.4    3555091.9    2468840.1    1477087.6      224911.8   12888957.5
D. Inform. Educ. Communic.
1. Safe Motherhood IEC             15239.4      25428B.1     221763.9     120221.1      126422.6     118806.0     8S6738.2
2. Skill Development IEC          211587.2      178939.7     187644.2      36134.7       37543.9      33821.1     685470.8
8. Agriculture IEC                603873.9      753523.7     388037.9     376874.3      372683.4      68512.8    2463186.0
4. Women Bureau IEC              5177050.2    7116633.7    2315838.0      605303.2      586866.6      76081.2   16875563.0
Sub-Total                            6907750.7   8303383.2   3113284.1    1138333.3    1122188.6        296020.1   19880958.0
E. Strong. Women 8ureau
1. Strength. Women's Bureau      2598327.8   3060698.8    1388598.9    1397334.5    1370320.1        389071.8   10184351.4
2. Monitoring a Evaluation        45819S.8    424350.1       448547.4    474300.3       314918.7     483559.5   2603871.8
Sub-Total                            30S8523.2   348s548.7    1817148.3    1871834.8    1685238.8       872831.3  12788223.1
F. pro3. mana9. unit                 90484S.3    4629S7.1       492125.3    623820.1    S66891.6    s59s23.0   3629482.4
0. The Fund                          813000.0    813000.0       813000.0    813000.0       813020.0          0.0    4065000.0
H. Project Preparation Fund          9495720.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0    9495720.0                     o a
__   __      _    __      _    __     __      _      _________                                                1h..J
Total PROJECTS COSTS               38725299.9  29482191.0  20506749.2   18541876.8   14470879.9   3893288.6  121420084.6
4/26/1990  1t:2S6



THE GamiFa
Women In Development
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US8
90/91        91/92       92/93        93/94        94/96        95/96        Total
A. Agriculture
1. Extension serv.for crops       126106.7     101379.4     76882.6      62813.7      68082.1      12566.5    445430.0
2. Extension serv. horticul.       32659.9     111432.9     58713.8       55404.0     68954.e      10447.3     325549.7
3. Extension Livestock            383793.4      70489.1      33461.7     35ss3.8      37811.7       9335.2     570454.8
4. Private Input Retailers        386e83.9     23972' 7    218287.7     163131.7     107182.5      40234.0    113S512.6
S. Women's Cooperative Grps.        9956.4      1S  .1      20413.8      22408.4      21726.3       1957.9      96077.7
6. Food Stor. Process.Nutr.        92781.4     1366*?.S     95828.2      53938.2      32834.0       S678.1     417395.5
7. Post Harvest Equip.             98908.9      75780.3     70373.1     108532.8      92489.2      18324.3     472380.4
S. Women's Savings                 61975.7      4s837.0     70021.3      53463.3      67145.7      13586.9     303029.0
9. Agricultural Coordinator        8683.4       12022.6     12807.5      13848.3      14549.2       3494.5      85185.7
Sub-Total                           1181338.7     813818.7   682587.8      588701.9    488635.3      11S822.9   383080S.2
8. Skills Development
1. Strength. Dep. Comm. Dev.     384688.1     369110.5    235434.7      244247.5     184258.6      44488.8    1482126.1
2. Skills Dev. Program           263426.5      266345.0    252981.4     208428.2     221838.s      52072.2    1262888.8
3. Improv. Access Credit             520.1     169021.9    178537.2     188657.8     199425.2          0.0     738182.0
Sub-Total                            848533.7     804477.3    688953.4    839331.3       05S320.2     98581.1    3481178.9
C. Safe Motherhood and FP                                                                                                                     Un
1. Risk Identif. and Referr.        5124.5     191692.6    219174.6      77814.0      21867.4        884.0     516587.0
2. Alarm Evaecution               80124.2       35413.6     70962.1      80334.8      17318.7       4248.5     2688398.0
8. Women's Nutrition              107687.9    107232.1      97878.3     104959.7    l11119.3       17190.8     548537.9
4. Family Planning                 50255.9     84313.9      53083.5      41968.8      32456.1       5803.6     2e7653.5
__ _ _ __ ~~- - __- -- - -- - -- - ------------------- - -------------- 
Sub-Total                            223162.5    418852.2    441078.4      306087.0    183281.6       27904.7   1599128.2
D. Inform. Educ. Comaunlc.
1. Safe Motherhood IEC              1890.7     81649.1      27614.1      14916.8      15885.2      14740.1    108295.1
2. Skill Development IEC           28261.6     22201.0      23280.9       4483.2       4858.1       '171.3      86046.0
3. Agriculture IEC                62561.4      93489.3      48143.7      48733.8      48223.7       8650.4    305606.2
4. Women Bureau IEC              642318.9    892957.0    287824.8        76099.7      72882.1       931B.3   1989872.8
Sub-Total                            732971.6   1038196.4    386263.5    141232.4    139229.1    a3827.1   248662.1
E. Strong. Women Bureau
1. Strength. Women's Bureau       822873.1    879739.3     169801.3     173366.6     170014.9      48271.9   1286887.2
2. Monitoring & Evaluation         56848.1     52848.9      56851.0      s8846.2      39071.8      6999S.0     323081.0
- -__  -- --  -  -  -- --   _    -  -- --  -  _ - - - - -- - _-- ----- - __- ----- - __----- - __-- -- -- ---
Sub-Total                            379221.2    432388.2     226452.4     232212.8    209086.7      108266.9    1568s28.2
F. proj. *anag. unit                 112268.7     57438.8      81057.7      84928.0      69068.4      73141.8    487898.8                         
0. The Fund                          100888.5    100688.6    100888.5    100868.6    100868.6              0.0    504342.4                       e
H. Project Preparation Fund         1178129.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0   1178129.0                     0
_- - - - -_         _   __- - - --     _-- -- - -- - _- --- - - - -- - -- -- -- - -- _                           -4 ----
Total PROJECTS COSTS               4558488.8   3657840.1   2644281.7   2052341.9   1795389.7    458224.4  16S04626.8                          G
4/26/19 -0   11 -----------:25----------           _-----_                    _--                  -    ---  -  ----- -  ------  --
4/28/1990 11:25



THE Gambia
Women in Development
Financing Plan by Project Components
US8
Kingdom of
IDA           Norway          AfDB          UNIFEM          UNDP          UNFPA        Government
Amount   X      Amount   %      Amount    U     Amount   %      Amount   I      Amount   %    Amount
A. Extension serv.for crops         3f1    81        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0        84    19
8. Extension serv.                    0     0        0     0        0    0         0     0      82e   100        0     0        a     a
C. Extension Livestock                0     0        0     0        0    0         0     0      t70   100        0     0        0     0
D. Private Input Retailers         1025    90        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0     0      111    10
E. Wom.n's Cooperative               37    39        0     O        0     0        0     B        0     0        0    0        69   el
F. Food Stor. Process.Nutr.         393    94        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0     0       24     8
G. Post Harvest Equip.                0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0      472   100        0    0         0     0
H. Women's Savings                  184    64        0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0        0    0       139   48
I. Agricultural Coordinator          49    76        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0        18   25
J. Strength. Dep. Comm.               0     0        0     a     1482  100         0     0        0     0        0    0         0     0
K. Skills Dev. Program                0     0        0     0     1283  100         0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0
L. Improv. Access Credit              0     0        0     0      738100           0     0        0     0        0    0         a     0
M. Rlsk Identit. and                  0     0      517  100         0    0         0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0
N. Alarm Evacuation                   0     0      2f8   100        0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0         0     0
O. Womens Nutritlon                   0    O       547  100         0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0
P. Family Plannlng                    0     a      28 8100          0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0         0     0
Q. Saf  Motherhood IEC               91   88         a     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0        1S   14
R. Skill Development IEC             86   100        0     0        0    a         0     0        B     0        0    0         0     0
S. Agriculture IEC                  288    88        0     0        0    0         0     a        0     0        0    0        38   12
T. Women Bureau IEC                1781    88        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0      10     8       88     4
U. Strength. Women's Bureau         677    64        0     0        0     0      610    40        0     0        0    0        77    8
V. Monitorlng & Evaluation          238    74        0     0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0    0        8S    28
W. proj. manag. unit                218    50        0     0        0    0       183    37        0     0        0    0        67    13
X. The Fund                         604  100               0        0    0         0     0        0     0        0     0        0     0
Y Project Preparation Fund         1178  100         0     0        0    0         0     0        B     a        0     0        0     a
Total Dlsbursement                 7020   47      1599    11    3481   23        878     4     188     9      160     1      793     5
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/28/1990  12:13
OQ z
0I



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Financing Plan by Project Components
US,
Total                 Local
----------    For.    (Excl.   Duties
Amount    %      Exch.   Taxes)   A Tax.
A. Extension serv.for crop.          446     8      307       138        0
B. Extension serv.                   328     2      237        88        0
C. Extension Livestock               670     4      457       113        0
D. Private Input Retailers          1136     8      961       174        0
E. Women"s Cooperative                98     1       24        72        0
F. Food Stor. Process.Nutr.          417     3      U47        71        0
. Post Harvest Equip.               472     3      271       201        0
M. Women's Savings                   S03     2      118       185        0
I. Agricultural Coordinator          6e      0       23        42        0
J. Strength. Dep. Comm.             1462    10     1123       389        0
K. Skills Dev. Program              1263     8      144      1119        0
L. I"prov. Access Credit             738     6      41S       322        0
M. Risk Identif. and                 517     3      273       244        0
N. Alarm Evacuation                  288     2       80       188        0
0. Women's Nutrition                 547     4      225       822        0
P. Family Planning                   288     2      151       117        0
Q. Safe Motherhood IEC               10S     1       79        28        0
R. Skill Development ZEC              85     1       69        16        0
S. Agriculture TEC                   306     2      217        88        0
T. Women Bureau IEC                 1970    13     1835       185        0
U. Strength. Women's Bureau         1264     8      4S7       807        0
V. Monitoring A Evaluation           823     2      187       138        0
W. proj. manag. unit                 438     a      208       280        0
X. The Fund                          504     3      2S0       2S4        0
Y. Project Preparation Fund         1178     8      7M2       476        0
Total Disbursement                 150S6   l0     9160     590S         0
Values Se-led by 1060.0  4/26/1990  12:17
0I 
Li)
0I 
5%



THE Cambla
Women in DOvelopment
Table 101. Extenslon Services for Women Horticulture (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity                                  Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92/9a 93-96 96/98 Total       90/91   91/92   92/9a   93-96   96/96
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. equlpment and furniture (1>         -     -     -     -      -     -          -       -        -       -       -
S. vehicles
motorcycles                        0     8     0                  a o8    0.00   1a.76    0.00    O."    0.06
4 wd twin cab pick up              0     2     0     0     0      2       0.90  127.78    0.0"    o.aa    0."0
C. materials (2>                       -     -     -     -      -     -          -       _        _       _       _
D. training
training abroad(mn/month) <3>      0    12    12    12     0    48        0.00   12.29   12.29   12.29    0.60
workshops (4)                      0     1     1     0     0      2       0.00   19.06   19.06    0.60    0.03
Training development <6>          -     -     -     -
II. RECMRENT COSTS
A. secretarial serv.(ctract)            2     2     0     0     0      4      20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
S. travel allowances <8>               -     -     -     -     -      -          -       -        -       _       _
C. vehicle operat. and main. (7>       -     -     -     -     -      -          -       -        -       -       -
D. office supply (8>                   -     -     -     ^     -      -          -       -        -       _       _
(1> for horticultural extenslon and demonstration programs
<2> materials for demonstration programs, extension manuals
<a> 2 year diploma for 2 supervisors
(4> 2 horticult.developm.wrkps. (25 ext.workrsxl4dysxD6S/day)
(5> training program updating
(6> per diem for extension agents
<7) now and existing vehicles(motorcycles and 4wd)
Unit Costs Scaled by 1006.0  4/26/1990  11:08
0 I
uc



THE Cambia
Women In Development
Table 191. Extension Services for Wmen Horticulture (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dslasi
Base Costs                                         Base Costs In US8
99/91   91/92   92/9s   93/94  94/96   96/9_ Total    90/91  91/92 92/93  93194  94/9S 9S/9S  Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture <1>       44.3   44.3   29.5   19.7   19.7    9.8  167.4             5.5    6.6   3.7   2.4    2.4    1.2  20.6
B. vehicles
motorcycles                      0.0   41.3    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   41.8         0.0    6.1   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    6.1
4 ad twin cab pick up            0.0  26.8   90.0    0.0    0.0    9.0  2SS.8              0.9  81.7   0.0   0.0    0.0 _.0  31.7
Sub-Total                         0.0  296.8    0.0    9.9    9.9         0.0  296.8        9.0   36.8   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0  86.8
C. materials (2>                     29.5   54.1    29.5   84.4    89.3       9.8  196.6        3.7    6.7    3.7   4.8   4.9    1.2  24.4
0. training
training abroad(mn/uonth) <3)    0.0  147.4   147.4  147.4  147.4    0.0  689.8            0.0   18.3  18.8  18.8  18.3   0.0  73.2
workshops <4>                    o.9   19.0   19.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   38.0        0.0   2.4   2.4   0.0    0.0    0.0   4.7
Training development <(>        20.0   20.0   1090    10.0   109.        0.0   70.0        2.5   2.6    1.2   1.2   1.2   0.0    8.7
Sub-Total                        29.0  188.4   176.4   167.4  1S7.4       0.0  697.8        2.6   23.1   21.9  19.6  19.6   0.9  8B.6
___                                                                                             _  ___ __ __________ ___  _____   _______ _____ 
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS                  98.8  681.7   235.6  211.6  216.4    19.7  1368.8         11.6   72.2  29.2  28.2  26.9   2.4  168.6 -
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. secretarial srv.(ctract)         40.0   40.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   80.0        5.0    5.0   9.0   0.9   9.9    0.9   9.9
B. travel allowances <6>             10.0   15.9   15.9   15.9   16.0    5.9   76.0             1.2    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9   9.6    9.3
C. vehicle operat. and main. <7>     64.4   85.9   85.9   86.9   85.9   21.6  429.6             8.0  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7   2.7  65.3
0. office supply <8>                 19.7   29.6   29.8   29.6   29.6    9.9  148.0             2.4   3.7    3.7   3.7   8.7    1.2   18.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  134.2  170.5  130.6  139.6  130.5   38.6  782.6            16.6  21.1  16.2  18.2  16.2   4.5   90.9
- = =                             -=  8==   =-    2 = -=_
Total                               228.0  752.1  885.9  842.0  848.9   68.2 2091.0            28.8  98.3  46.4  42.4  43.9   7.0 269.4
<1> for horticultural extension and demonstration programs
2> materials for demonstration programs, extension manuals
<3> 2 year diploma for 2 supervisors
<4> 2 horticult.developm.wrkps. (25 ext.workrsx14dysxDO6/day)
(6) training program updating
(86 per diem for extension agents
(7) new and existing vehicles(motorcycles and 4wd)
- Values scaled by 1999.9 4/28/1999 11:06
0Iz
o .
olh 0



THE Gambia
Women in DOevelopment
Table 102. Extension Services for Crops (Agriculture)
Detalled Cost Table
Dalas8
Quantity                         Unit Cost
90/91 91-98 93-96 95/96 Total     90/91   91-98   98-96  95/98
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture  1                                           -       -
B. vehicles and spare parts
motorcycles                     to    0    0       0    10      18.76    0.00    0.00   0.00
twin cab                         1    0    0       0     1    127.78    0.00    0.00    0.06
eight eeat station                1    0    0      0     1    127.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
C. materials
extension manuals <2>
spare parts, revolv. fund
D. training
sonsitization cupgn. <>                0    0      0    a       24.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
national extension wkp. (6)      1    1    1    0        5      88.92   88.92   68.92    0.00
divisonal exten. wkps. (4)      12   12   12    0   60           8.5    6.60    6.50    0.00 
training abroad <6>              0    20    0    0    40         0.00    6.90    0.00    0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. travel allowance 7>-
B. office supplies
C. vehicle operat. and main. (6)
<1> air conditioners, typewriters etc,
(2> rice upland crop extension manuals; updating of extension manuals
(8) sonsitisation workshops (60 ext. wkre x12 days)
(4) semi-annual extension wkps (26ext.agntox Sdys)
(5> national oxtension wkps. (6 daysx 60 partipnts; facility rental; matte.)
(8> regional study tours for ext. wkrs.
Unit Cost. Scaled by 1090.0 4/26/1990  11:07                                                                                                    |
. ., 
'.



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 192. Extension Services for Crops (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Base Costs                                  Does, Costs In lUse
90/91   91/92   92/98   93-95   95/96   Total   `Zop1  91/92- 92/98  93-95  S96/9   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture (1>        24.6   24.6    9.8    9.8    9.8   88.6           8.1   3.1    1.2   1.2   1.2  11.0
B. vehicles and spare parts
motorcycles                     187.6    9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9  187.6          17.1    9.0    9.9   9.9   9.9  17.1
twin cob                        127.8    9.9    9.9      9.9    9.6  127.8        15S.9   8.9    9.9   9.9   9.9  15.9
eight seat station              127.8    9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9  127.8          15.9   9.9   9.9    9.9   9.9  15.9
Sub-Total                        398.2    9.9    B.;    9.9    9.9  898.2          48.8   9.9    0.0   9.9   9.9  48.6
C. materials
extension manuals (2)           29.5   49.1   19.7   19.7    9.8  147.4            8.7   6.1   2.4    2.4    1.2  18.8
spare parts, revolv. fund         9.9  147.4    9.9    9.9    9.9  147.4           9.9  18.3   9.9   9.9   9.9  18.8
Sub-Total                         29.5  196.6   19.7   19.7    9.8  294.9           8.7  24.4    2.4   2.4   1.2  88.8
0. training
sensitization capon. (8         144.0    9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9  144.9          17.9   9.9   9.9   9.9   9.9  17.9
&a tional extension wkp. (5)    68.9   88.9   68.9   68.9    9.9  844.8            8.6    8.8   8.6   8.6   9.9  42.8                   1
divisonal exten. wkps. (4>       78.0   78.0   78.9   78.0    9.9  899.0           9.7    9.7   9.7   9.7  ~;.G  48.4
training abroad <6)              9.9  118.9  118.9    9.9    9.9  285.9            9.9  14.6  14.6   0.9   9.9  29.8
                          -----                    ~~~~~~- --   ---     ---     ---- -- ---  I
Sub-Tota                         290.  6.9      284.9  148.9    9.9  1114.5        88.1  32.9  32.9  18.2   9.9  188.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  788.2  488.1  294.4  176.4   19.7  1891.2         91.6  69.8  38.5  21.9   2.4  284.8
II. RECURtRENT COSTS
A. travel allowance (7)              18.8   25.9   25.9   25.9    6.2  125.9            2.3    8.1    3.1   8.1   9.8  15.5
B. Office supplies                    22.5   39.0   89.0   89.0       7.5  159.9        2.8    8.7   8.7   8.7   9.9  18.8
C. vehicle operat. and main. (6>    118.9  154.8  154.8  154.3   38.3  771.6           14.4  19.1  19.1  19.1   4.8  95.7
Totsal RECURRENT COSTS                 15.    9.    9.    9.             291946.8         19.   2.9   2.0  269          .5  129.9
Total                               895.5  896.4  598.7  885.7   71.7  2937.8    111.1  88.8  62.5  47.9   8.9  384.5
(1> air conditioners, typewriters etc,
(2) rIo. upland crop extension manuals; updating of extension manuals
(8) smentlsation workshops (SO ext. wkrs %12 days)
(4) seem-annual extension wkps (2Sext.agntax Sdys)
(5> national extension wkps. (6 dayex 59 partlpnts; facility rental; matle.)
<6) regional study tours for ext. wkrs.                                                                                                      0
- Values scaled by 159.9 4/26/1999 11:97



THE Cambla
Women in Dovelopment
Table 103. Extension Services for ben Livestock Productn (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Delasl
Quantity                          Unit Cost                              Base Costs
90/91 91/92 92-96 96/98 Total      90/91   91/92   92-95   96/98       90/91   91/92  92-9S   95/98   Total
I. INYESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture (1>        -     -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -       492.3  221.5    19.7       9.8   782.8
8. vehicles
motorcycles                     32      0     0     0    32      13.78    0.60    0.00    0.o0       440.4     0.0    0.0       0.0   440.4
4 wd vehicle                      1    0      0     0     1     127.78    0.o0    0.00    0.60       127.8     0.0     0.0     0.6   127.6
Sub-Total                                                                                             688.1     0.6     0.0      0.0  568.1
C. materials (2>                      -     -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -      1210.0     0.0     0.0      0.0  1210.0
D. training
divisional wokps. <3>             3     3     2     0    12      12.SO   12.50   12.50    0.60        37.5    37.5    25.0      6.0   160.0
diploma courses                  3     0      0     0     3      88.80    0.00    0.60    0.00       208.4     0.0     0.0     0.0   208.4
Study tours <S>                   1     1    0      0     2      49.15   49.15    0.o0    0.60        49.1    49.1     0.0     0.0    98.a
Sub-Total                                                                                             293.1    86.8    25.0      0.0   454.7
E. pilto project evaluation           -     -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -        14.7     0.0     0.0      0.0    14.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                      2576.2   308.2    44.7      9.8  8030.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. travel allowance (3>               -     -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -        20.0    26.0    2S.0      5.0   125.0
8. vehicl. oper. and main.            -     -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -        92.5   123.3   123.3    30.8   618.7
C. office supply                     -      -     -     -     -          -       -        -       -        14.8    19.7    19.7      4.9    98.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                        121.3   188.1   168.1    40.8   840.3
_=_G =Y= =-
Total                                                                                                    270S.6   478.3  212.8   5W.8  3870.7
(1> cold chain, laboratory equip.and frnture; computer, field samplg kits
(2> fund for drug initial stock; training manuals
(3> D3Sx60 partiepntax 7dys; fuel, field trips, traing material, transport
(4> dtpimxa courses
(5> study tours, 10 participants (Burkina, Senegal)
Unit Costa Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1060.0 4/28/1990 11:07
VI'
0)
I,"'
%0



THE Gambla
women In Development
Table ea-. rxtension Services for Wuen Livestock Productn (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
0alast
Totals Including Conthigencles             Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.          IDA
usi                                        toUSS  UFi. in USS
=~~~= = = = = = =~~~~~~~~~=                 --                                = ~
90/91  91/92  92/9a 93/94  94/9S  96/96  Total      F.Exch  Local   Taxes   Total    w-96  Total
I. IVESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture (1>      70.5   33.1   8.1    3.2    3.8   1.7  114.9        102.8   12.3    0.0  114.9          0.0    0.0
B. vehicles
motorcycles                    82.8    0.0   o.o    o.o    0.0    0.0  82.8         82.8     a.e     0.0   62.8        0.0    0.0
4 wd vehicle                   18.2    0.0    o.o    9.0    o.o   0.0  18.2         18.2    0.0      0.0   18.2        0.0   0.0
Sub-Total                       81.0    0.0   0.0   9.0    0.0    0.0  81.0          81.0     0.0     0.0   81.0         0.0    0.0
C. materlals <2>                   172.6    0.0    0.0  0e.    0.0    0.0  172.6        1;2.6     0.0     0.0  172.0         0.0    0.0
0. training
divisional wokps. (3>           6.3   6.7    4.1    4.4    4.8    0.0  24.3          0.0   24.3      0.0   24.3         0.0    0.9
diploma courses                28.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  28.1        29.1    0.0      0.0   28.1         0.0    0.0
Study tours <5>                 8.7    7.0   e.g    o.o    0.0    0.0  13.8         13.6     0.0     0.0    13.6        0.0    0.0
---- --    ----   -- - ----- - -- - -- - _-- - --    - -- - -- -- - - -_-- -- -- - -- -- -- - --    --- - -- - -- -- -
Sub-Total                       40.1   12.7   4.1    4.4    4.8   0.0  S6.1          41.7   24.3    0.0   68.1           0.0    0.0
E. piIto project evaluation          2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0        2.0     0.0     0.0      2.0       0.0    0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                368.1  46.7    7.2    7.6    8.1    1.7 436.6        399.9    38.6    0.0  436.6          0.0    0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. travel allowance <8)              2.8    8.8    4.1   4.4    4.8    1.0  21.0           0.0    21.0    0.0    21.0        0.0    0.0
B. vehicl. oper. and main.          12.8  18.1  19.2  20.4   21.6   6.7   97.8           46.4    62.4      0.0    97.8       0.0    0.0
C. office supply                     2.0    2.8    3.0    3.1   8.8    0.9   18.1        X1.?    3.4       0.9   16.1        0.0    0.0
- -- --- - -- - -- --- --- ----- ---- ---- -----    -- -- - -- - - - - -- -- -- - -- - -- - --    - -- - -- - - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  17.7  24.8  26.3  27.9  29.7    7.8  188.9           57.1   76.8      0.0   133.9        0.0    0.0
== === == _= === g= ~== =::= ~==z= =5= ___== =:
Total                              388.8  70.5  38.6  85.6  37.8    9.8  670.6          467.0   113.4     0.0  t70.5         0.0    0.0
(1> cold chain, laboratory equlp.and frnturs; computer, field sampig kits
(2) fund for drug Initial stock; training anuals
<3> D536x6 particpntsx 7dys; fuel, field trips, traing material, transport
<4> diploma courses
<5) study tours, 10 participants (Burkina, Senegal)
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/2t/1990 11:08
U



THE O..bi.
Women In Development
Table 104. Private Sector Input Dtatribution (Agriculture)
Doetlled Cost Tablo
Daleal
quantity                                        Untt Cost
90/91 91/92 92/f9 9a/94 94/96 96/98 Total      90/91   91/92   92/98   93/94   94/96   95/96
1. INVSTMENT COSTS
A Equlpmnt and Furniture (1>          -     -     -     -     -    -      -          -        -       -       -       -       -
B. Vehicles
ecycles for sales agente         18     0     0     0     0     0    18      13.78    0.o0    e0ls    0.06    6.06    0.00
4WD vehicle                       1    0      0     1    0    a       2     127.78    6.00    0.00  127.78    0.00    0.00
C. speciallots aervices
forelgn specialist/mth (<>        0     0     o     2    0      0     2       0.00   o.o0    0.00   88.46    0.00    0.60
foreign specialast/mth <2>        0     0     0     2     0     0     2       0.60    0.06    0.oo   88.48    0.06    0.oo
local speciallsts aerv. (3)      -    -      -     -     -    -      -          -       -       -       -       -       -
0. Training
TSA training workshop (4>         2     2    0      0     0    0      4      17.60  1S7.0     6.6     0.00    0.00   0.00
BSA promotion wkps. (5>           2     2     2     2     2    0    10       20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00    0.00
E. credit
credit line 18 retallers
credit line 6 add. ret.
credit line wholesalers
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. personnel (8)                      -     -    _      _
B. vehicle operat. and main.
C. office supply
(1> office equipment for The Business Advimory Service (BAS)                                                                                      I
<2> compenet evaluatlon
(8> legal and accounting services(BSA)                                                                                                          *4
(4> 25 Technical Sales Agts(TSA)x14dysxDOSpers/day; fuel, material,transport                                                                      CI
(S> promotlon wkps for Business Advisory Services(BSA)agts(60p.rsonsx7dys)                                                                      rt CG
<(> TSA salaries and allowance.
Unit Costs Sealed by 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:08                                                                                                   UD



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 104. Private Sector Input Distribution (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Includltng Contingencies
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/98   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture <1>        45.4   38.6   24.7    25.8    28.9       0.0  158.6
B. Vehicles
ucycles for sales agenet        284.7     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  284.7
4WD vehicle                     148.9    0.0      0.0  184.7      0.0     0.0   811.8
Sub-Total                        431.8     0.0     0.0  184.7      0.0     0.0  598.4
C. specialists services
foreign specialist/ath <8>        0.0     0.0     0.0  183.3      0.0     0.0   163.3
foreign specialist/ath <2>        0.0     0.0     0.0   183.3     0.0     0.0  183.3
local specialists serv. <8>      25.8   38.8   39.7    42.9    48.4    12.4   208.8
Sub-Total                         25.6   38.8    39.7   369.5    46.4    12.4   530.4
D. Training
TSA training workshop <4>        39.7    42.9     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   82.7
BSA promotion wkps. (5>          45.4    49.1    53.0    57.2    81.8     0.0  2868.
Sub-Total                         85.2    92.0    53.0   57.2    61.8      0.0  349.2
E. credit
credit line 18 retailers       1848.9  1173.9   299.4   311.1   323.2    87.0  4043.4
credit line 6 add. ret.           0.0    0.0  898.1   103.7   107.7   111.8  1221.4
credit line wholesalers         256.8   213.4   218.2    89.1    71.8    55.9   883.8
Sub-Total                       210S.8  1387.4  1413.8   483.9   502.7   254.7  8148.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 2693.4  1SS1.7  1S31.2  1101.2  837.8   267.1  7782.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. personnel <8>                     153.3  220.8   59.8       0.0     0.0     0.0  433.7
S. vehicle operat. and main.          84.9   99.9  106.9  148.0  157.0   39.2  814.9
C. office supply                      42.8   S9.8   82.7   6S.7   68.9   18.0   817.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   261.1  380.5  228.2  213.7  225.9   S7.2  1388.6
== __ =====_
Total                               29S4.5  1932.2  1759.4  1314.8   883.7   324.8  9148.9
<1> offIce equipment for The Business Advisory Service (BAS)
<2> component evaluation                                                                                                                        0
<8> legal and accounting services(8SA)
<4> 25 Technical Sales Agts(TSA)x14dysxD3Spers/day; fuel, material ,transport
<6> promotion wkps for Business Advisory Services(8SA)agts(SOpersonax7dys)                                                                      o  l
<6> TSA salaries and allowances
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990  11:08                                                                                                     tn



THE Cambia
Women in Development
Table 104. Private Sector Input Distribution (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost rabl
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies                 Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$                                            US$
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/96   95/96   Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes  Total
I. INVESTVENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture (1>         6.8     4.4     3.1     3.2     8.3     0.0   19.7         17.6     2.2     0.0    19.7
B. Vehicles
mcycles for sales agents         36.3    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    86.8        86.3     0.0     0.0  38.3
4WD vehicle                      18.2    0.0      0.0   20.4      0.0     0.0   38.7        38.7      0.0     0.0    88.7
Sub-Total                         53.S     0.0     0.0    20.4     0.0     0.0    74.0        74.0     0.0     0.0    74.0
C. specialists services
foreign specialist/mth (3>        0.0     0.0     0.0   20.3    0.0       0.0   20.3        20.3    0.0    0.0    20.3
foreign specialist/ath <2>        0.0     0.0     0.0   20.3    0.0       0.0   20.3         20.8     0.0     0.0   20.3
local specialists serv. (3>       8.2     4.6     4.9     6.3     S.8     1.6   2S.3         0.0    26.3     0.0   26.3
_       _   _     _--- -    -____ __-- -__ _ _____  -------  ------- _-      -_ - ---
Sub-Total                          8.2     4.6     4.9    46.8    5.8      1.6   65.8        40.5   26.8       0.0   66.8
D. Training
TSA training workshop (4>         4.9     5.3     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   10.3         0.0    10.3      0.0   10.3
BSA promotion wkps. (5>           6.6    6.1      6.6     7.1     7.7     0.0    33.1        0.0    33.1      0.0   33.1
_______ -------  - ___ --- - --_   __---  _-  - ---------_                                         _ _ 
Sub-Total                         10.6   11.4      6.8     7.1     7.7     0.0    43.3        0.0    43.3      0.0   48.3
E. credit
credit line 18 retailers        229.4  145.6   37.1   38.6   40.1   10.8  501.7            601.7      0.0     0.0  501.7
credit line 6 add. ret.           0.0     0.0   111.4    12.9    13.4    13.9   161.6      161.5    0.6       0.0   161.5
credit line wholesalers          31.9    28.5    26.8     8.8     8.9     8.9   109.6       109.6     0.0     0.0  109.8
Sub-Total                        261.2   172.1   176.4                    31.8   782.8       782.9     0.0     0.0  782.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  334.2   192.5   190.0   138.6    79.1    33.1   96S.6       894.8    70.8     0.0   986.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. personnel (8>                      19.0   27.4      7.4     0.0     0.0     0.0   S3.8         0.0    53.8      0.0   53.8
B. vehicle operat. and main.           8.1    12.4    13.1    18.4    19.6     4.9    78.3        35.3    41.0     0.0    76.3
C. office supply                       5.3     7.4     7.8     8.1     8.S     2.2    39.4        30.6     8.8     0.0    39.4
_______     -------     ---  -  -_ ----. -  - _                               ___ -    __
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    32.4    47.2    28.3    26.6    28.0     7.1   189.S       86.9   103.7      0.0  189.6
- ===   ==   =_
Total                                368.8   239.7   218.3   183.1   107.2    40.2  1136.1      960.7   174.4      0.0  1135.1
<1> office equipment for The Business Advisory Service (BAS)
<2> component evaluation
<8> legal and accounting services(BSA)
(4> 26 Technical Sales A9ts(TSA)x14dysxD36pers/day; fuel, material,transport.
(5> promotion wkps for Business Advisory Services(eSA)agts(SOpersonsx7dys)
(6> TSA salaries and allowances
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990  11:08                                                                                                     en



THE Oambia
Wmen In Development
Table 106. Women Cooperative Groups (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalosl
Quantity                            Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92-94 94/95 96/96 Total    90/91  91/92 92-94 94/95 96/96
Z. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. vehicles                       2    8    1    0    0    7    18.76  13.76  18.78   0.00  0.00
B. local training <1>             2    2    2    2    0   10          2.00  2.00  2.00  2.00  0.00
II. RECURENT COSTS
A. personnel (2>                  2    6    7    7    0   28    10.00 10.00 10.00 10e9   0.00
O. travel allowances (8>         -    -    -    -    -    -            -      -      -      -     -
C. Vehicle 0  N                  -    -    -    -    -    -            -      -      -      -     -
D. offeo supply
(1> traing for credit assistants(D35per/dyx5dys), fuel, material, tranpeort
<2> credtt assistants
<a> per diem for credit assistants and funds for field supervision
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1900  11:09
ol
o aD
'4



THE Gambia
Women tn Development
Table 105. Women Cooperative Groups (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contlngencies
TotalsB Includlng Contingencls                              US$
90/91  91/92 92/98  93/94 94/95  95/986 Total   90/91 91/92 92/98 93/94 94/85 95/96 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. vehicles                      81.6  49.3  17.1  17.7   0.0   0.0 116.8          8.9  8.1  2.1  2.2  0.0  0.9  14.4
8. local training (1>             4.S   4.9   5.3   S.7   6.2   0.0  28.7          0.6  0.8  0.7  0.7  0.8  0.0  3.3
_____                _ ------    -_  __ --   - _  _-  _  _  _ - -  _____---  -----  -
Total IVESTMENT C'STS               38.2  54.2  22.4  23.5   8.2   0.0 142.4          4.5  6.7  2.8  2.9  0.8  0.0  17.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. personnel <2)                 22.7  81.8  92.7 100.1 108.2   0.0 385.1          2.8  7.6  11.6 12.4 13.4  0.0 47.8
S. travel allowances (8>         12.3  17.7  19.1  20.8  22.2   8.0  97.8          1.5  2.2  2.4  2.6  2.8  0.7 12.1
C. Vehicle 0 t U                  4.5  18.9  24.1  29.8  31.6   8.4  117.4         0.6  2.3  3.0  3.7  3.9  1.0 14.8
0. o fice supply                  4.8   6.0   8.3   6.8   6.9   1.4  31.7          0.8  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  0.2  3.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS               44.1  103.9 142.2 167.1  168.9  16.8 832.0        5.6 12.9  17.8  19.S 21.0  2.0 78.4
==   = =              -3_ =    ==-=  __  =-    =----
Total                            80.2 1S8.1 164.6 180.6 17S.1  15.8 774.4    10.0  19.6 20.4 22.4 21.7  2.0 98.1
<1) traing for credit assistants(D36per/dyx6dys), fuel, material, tranpoort
(2) credit assistants
<a) per diem for credit assistants and funds for field supervi l'-n
- Values scaled by .000.0 4/28/1990 11:69
U c
ftD
Ln



THE Gambla
Wl. In Dev,lopment
Table 16. Food Storage, Preservation, and Nutrition Ext. (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Delasl
quantity                                   Unit Coat
90/91 91/92 92/9a 98/94 94/96 96/96 Total     90/91   91/92  92-94   94/96   9/986
T. INVESTIENT C03TS
A. equipment and furniture <1>     -    -    -                                                   -               - 
S. vehicle <2>                      1    0    0    0    0    0         1    130.97   0.00   O.f0   0.00   0.30
C. materials <(>
0. training
seminars ext.agents <4>        0    2    0    0    0    0    2            0.00   10.40   0.00   0.00   0.00
fellowuhIps <6>                0    2    a    1    0    a    0            0..0  161.12  161.12   9.00   9.a0
exchange programs <(>          0    2    2    2    2    0    8            0.00  85.26   35.26   36.26    0.99
E. Intl. Spec. Services             6    6    0    0    0    0   12           64.46   64.48    0.09    0.90   0.00
F. reserch (7>
It. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                          w
A. travel allowances <8>           -    -    -    -    -    -    -               -       -       -       -       -
B. vehicles oper. and main
C. office supplies                 -
0. Miscellaneous <9>
<1> Office training, laboratory and kitchen equipmnt
<2> 4WD twin pick up
(3) library, training, and outreach activities materials
(4> 2 reg.wkps. 80 participants D8Sper/dyxedys; fuel,traing material, tranpt
<(> 8 fellowships, each for 2 years
<6) exchange program 2 trainess x2months/year
(7) pilot sudtes, evaluation and development
(8> extension workers
(9) outreach activities
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990  11s19
'0
tD t
o Q'
Oh



THE Cambia
Women in Development
Table 108. Food Storage, Preservation, and Nutrition Ext. (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Daisas
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                      US$
90/91   91/92   92/93  93/94  94/95  9S/96  Total        90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94  94/95  95/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture (1>      59.5   62.2    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0  121.8          7.4   7.7   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0  15.1
B. vehicle (2>                     150.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  150.6           18.7   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  18.7
C. materials (8>                    30.7   28.9   26.4   28.4   27.4    7.1  145.9            3.8   3.8   3.1    8.3    8.4   0.9   18.1
D. training
seminars ext.agents (4>        0.0   25.5    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0   25.5          0.0    3.2   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   3.2
fellowships (5>                 0.0  844.6  537.0  186.0    0.0    0.0  1067.6           0.0  42.8  66.8  23.1    0.0    0.0  132.6
exchange programs <8>           0.0   80.4   83.6   88.8   90.2    0.0  340.9            0.0  10.0  10.4  10.8  11.2   0.0  42.3
Sub-Total                        0.0  450.5  620.6  272.8   90.2    0.0  1434.0           0.0  55.S  77.0  33.8  11.2   0.0  177.9
E. Intl. Spec. Services           424.5  441.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  886.6            52.7  54.7   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  107.4
F. research (7>                     28.8   38.3   41.3   44.8   48.2   12.9  211.9            3.3   4.7   5.1    5.5    6.0    1.6  28.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                691.8  1020.9  687.3  843.8  16S.8   20.1  2929.5          85.8  128.7  85.3  42.7  20.8    2.5  383.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______ ------
A. travel allowances (8>            8.9    12.8   13.8    14.9   18.1    4.3    70.6          1.1    1.6   1.7    1.8   2.0    0.5    8.8 0
B. vehicles oper. and main          23.2    32.8   34.7    38.9   39.1    10.8   177.0        2.9   4.1    4.3    4.8    4.9    1.3  22.0  1
C. office supplies                  6.2     8.8    9.0      9.5    9.9    2.5    45.7         0.8    1.1   1.1    1.2    1.2   0.3    5.7
D. Miscellaneous (9>                17.7   2S.S   27.6    29.8   32.1    8.6   141.3          2.2   3.2    3.4    3.7    4.0    1.1   17.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 56.0   79.8   85.1    91.0   97.2   25.7  434.7            7.0   9.9   10.8   11.3  12.1    3.2   53.9
=== -   .-   -==                                             = =                       ___==
Total                              747.8  1100.5  772.4  434.7  283.0   45.8 3384.2          92.8  188.5  9S.8   53.9   32.8   5.7  417.4
<1> Office training, laboratory and kitchen equipment
(2> 41D twin pick up
<8> library training, and outreach activities materials
<4> 2 reg.wkps. 30 participants D3Sper/dyxedys; fuel,traing material, tranpt
<6> 3 fellowships, each for 2 years
<6> exchange progrms 2 trainees x2months/year
<7> pilot sudies, evalustion and development
<8> extension workers
<9> outreach activities
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:10
o |
vc



THE  abia
Worn In bevelopuent
Table 107. Management of Post Harvest Equipment (Agrlculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Del&9l
Quantity                                Unit Cost
90/91 91-98 9a/94 94/95 96/98 Total     90/91   91-98   93/94   94/9S   95/9S
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. equipment and furniture (1>      -    -
B. vehicles
4 VD twin cab pick up            1    0     1    0    0       2     180.97    0.00  130.97    0.00    0.00
2 VD twin cab pick up           1    0    0       0    0      1     100.76    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
C. materials <2>
D. local training <8>
E. Intl. econ/engineer/mth (4>      12   12   12   12    0    60          18.83   18.83   18.83   18.83    0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. personnel <5>                    -     -    -    -       -           -        -       -           -       -
B. travel allowances <6>            -     -    -    -       -     -          -       -       -       -       -
C. vehicle oper. and maint.         -     -    -    -       -    -           -       -       -       -       -
D. office supplies                  -
(1> office equipment (incl computer)
(2> toolkit revolving fund; testing equip., tools; prototypes, demonstrat.
(8> village level training activities
<4> locally recruited formal VSO-volunteer
<5> sociologist/ trainer; mech. trainer; adm. asat.; sec/computer operator;
(6> per diem and ferry charges
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:10
o z



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 107. Management of Post Harvest Equipment (Agrieulture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                        US8
90/91   91/92   92/93   98/94   94/95   9S/98   Total      90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/96  95/98  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. equipment and furniture (1)        85.6    24.3    26.4    28.6    27.7    34.2   203.7        8.1    3.0    3.2    8.3    3.4    4.2   26.3
B. vehicles
4 UD twin cab pick up           160.6     0.0     0.0   188.9     0.0     0.0   319.4       18.7    0.0    0.0   21.0    0.0    0.0   39.8
2 UD twin cab pick up           115.8     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   116.8       14.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.4
- ------- -  --   - - - -              _        ___- ---       ---              ____ - - _-- - -- - __
Sub-Total                        268.4     0.0     0.0   168.9     0.0     0.0   43S.2       33.0    0.0    0.0   21.0    0.0    0.0   64.0
C. materials <2>                      33.8   38.1    17.5   18.2    18.2        0.0   121.6       4.2    4.5    2.2    2.3    2.0    0.0   15.1
D. local training <3)                 34.3   44.6   63.7    68.0   82.7         0.0   263.3       4.2    6.5    6.7    7.2    7.8    0.0   31.4
E. Intl. econ/engineer/mth <4>       221.5   230.2   239.2   248.5   268.2     0.0  1197.6       27.5   28.6   29.7   30.8   32.0    0.0  148.8
_          _ __ -_-___--   - - -  _ - - ___ _   ___ ______   ------ __--_                      -      
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  821.4   335.3   335.8   520.1   384.7    34.2  2211.3       77.1   41.6   41.7   84.6   45.2    4.2  274.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. personnel <S>                     115.7   165.8  179.1   193.4  208.9    55.1   918.1         14.4   20.8   22.2   24.0   25.9    8.8  113.9
S. travel allowances <(>              21.3    31.9    34.4    37.2   40.2    12.1   177.0         2.8    4.0    4.3    4.8    5.0    1.5   22.0w
C. vehicle oper. and maint.           29.9    85.5   69.5   110.8   117.4    42.8   435.6         3.7    8.1    8.6   13.7   14.6    5.3   54.0 r
9. office supplies                     8.8    12.3    12.9   13.6    14.2       3.7    86.4       1.1    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8    0.5    8.1
- _ -------    -----       --  --    -    --   ______    -------  ------    ------    ------    ------    -  -  ---   _____
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   176.8   276.5   296.9   354.7   380.8  l13.6  1696.1        21.8   34.2   36.7   44.0   47.2   14.1  198.0
=  -_ --- === = == -== == =
Total                                797.1   610.8  681.7  874.8  745.3   147.7  3807.4          98.9   7S.8   78.4  108.6  92.5   18.3  472.4
<1> office equipment (mncd computer)
<2> toolkit revolving fund; testing equip., tools; prototypes, demonstrat.
(3> village level training activities
<4> locally recruited formal VSO-volunteer
(5> sociologist/ trainer; mech. trainer; ad. aset.; s.c/computer operator;
<6> per diem and ferry charges
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:10
Ih
VI



TlE Gambia
Women in Development
Table 108. Savings Mobilization (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity                               Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92/98 93-95 96/96 Total    90/91   91/92   92/98  93-96  95/96
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture (1>     -    -    -    -    -    -             -       -       -       _      _
B. vehicles
motorcycles                    2    O    O    0    0    2          14.10   0.00   9.00   0.06    0.06
4WD                            1    0    0    0    0    1    130.97   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0e
C. Office Material                 -    -    -    _    _    _             _       _       _       _
D. training workshops <2>           2    2    2    2    0   10         16.60  16.60   16.60  15.60   0.99
E. Intl.Spec. Services/mth <3)     a    0    2    0    0    2           0.00   0.00  90.87   9.00   0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel (4>                   -    -    _-                                                          -
9. travel allowances               -    -    -    -    -    -             -       _       _       _                                       W
C. veh. operat. and maint.         -    -    -    -    -    -             -                       -
D. office supplies <5>
(1> desks chairs, cabinets, typewriters, calculators, audiovisual equipment
<2) MDI wkps; 30 participants x 10 days x wkp
<8> sub-component evaluation
<4> senior savings officer savings officer, secretary, driver
<(> stationary, communication material
Unit Costa Scaled by 1006.6 4/28/190  11:11
0% w
I
0 *
cra 



THE Gambia
Women In Dovelopment
Table 108. SavIngs Mobilization (Agerculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                      US$
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   Total    90/91  91/92 92/98  93/94  94/95  9S/98 Total
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture <1>     42.8    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0   42.6          6.3   0.0   0.0   0.0    o.o   0.0   6.3
B. vehicles
motorcycles                    32.4    0.0    6.0    6.0       0.0     0.0   32.4        4.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   6.0    4.0
4WD                          160.8    6.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  1S0.8        18.7   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  19.7
Sub-Total                     183.0    O.g      0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0  183.0       22.7   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  22.7
C. Office Material                 43.4   60.2   62.6   64.9   67.5   17.6  316.0             5.4   7.5    7.8    8.1   8.4    2.2  39.2
D. training workshops <2>          35.4   38.3   41.3   44.8   48.2    0.0  207.9             4.4    4.7   6.1    6.S   6.0    6.0  26.8
E. Intl.Spec. Services/mth <3>      0.0    0.0  181.1    0.0        0.0    0.0  161.1         0.0   0.0  20.0   0.0    0.0  060   20.0
 __    _______    _____ -----   _____ _-__ ___ ----_ ---__  _____    _____ --- --   - -  _-__ - -   - -    --  -  _--
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               304.4   98.4  284.9  109.8  11S.7   17.5  910.8            37.8  12.2  32.9  13.6  14.4   2.2  118.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel <4>                  113.4   183.3  178.8  190.4  206.7   55.1   904.3          14.1   20.3   21.9  23.6  25.S   6.8  112.2 2-
8. travel allowances               28.6   38.3   41.3   44.8   48.2    12.9  211.9            3.3   4.7   6.1    6.6   8.0    1.8  28.3 
C. veh. operat. and maint.         28.7   40.6   43.1   4S.7    48.6    12.8  219.6           3.6    S.6   5.3    5.7   8.0    1.8  27.2
0. office supplies <6>             26.4   38.9   38.7   40.6   42.6    11.1  198.1            3.3    4.8   4.8    6.0   5.3    1.4  24.3
____ -------     -------     ___   _   ___    ____  _  _____  ___  _                ----   -  ___  -  - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                196.1  279.1  299.4   321.3   344.9   92.0  1631.9         24.2  34.6   87.1   39.9  42.8   11.4  190.1
Total                             499.6   377.S  684.4  430.9  460.6  109.6 2442.4           62.0  46.8  70.0  63.6  57.1  13.8  303.0
<1) desks, chairs, cabinets, typewriters, calculators, audiovisual equipment
<2> MDI wkp.; U0 participants x 10 days x wkp
<a> sub-component evaluation
<4> senior savings officer savings officer, secretary, driver
<5> stationary, communication material
- Values scaled by 1900.0 4/28/1996 11:11
I-
Mb
U '



TME ambla
Won  In Developmont
Table 109. Agricultural Coordinator (Agriculture)
Deti led Cot Table
DalasI
Quantity          Unit Cost             Base Costs               Base Costs In US2
0-9596/96 Total    9-96  96/98    90/91  91-96 95/96 Total   90/91 91'95 9J/96 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. training
staff ugnt. training/nth       2    0   10        6.20  0.00      10.4  10.4   0.0  52.0       1.3  1.3  0.0  8.5
Divisional meetings (2>        1    0    5    16.60  0.00         16.8  15.6   0.0  78.0        1.9  1.9  0.0  9.7
Sub-Tota.                                                          28.0  26.0   0.0  130.0      3.2  3.2  0.0 18.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                   26.0  26.0   0.0  130.0       3.2  3.2  O.0 16.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
______________
A. travel allowances               -    -    -          -      -        4.2   8.2   2.1  31.2       6.5  0.8  0.3  3.9
B. vehicle oper. and maint         -    -                              I -  -  15.4  26.4  11.1  132.1  1.9  3.3  1.4  16.4
C. office supplies                 -    -    -          -      -       15.2  20.3   6.1  101.4      1.9  2.5  0.6  12.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                    34.7  62.9  18.2  264.7       4.3  6.6  2.3  82.8
_=  _=== =            ====         =       -I
Total                                                                 80.7  78.9  18.2 394.7        7.5  9.8  2.3 49.9
(1> staff managment training, 2per/month
<2> quarterly divisional meetings. Cost/yr for material, transport, food
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 10e0.0 4/28/1990 11:11
m P
o l
OQI
u'



THE Gambia
Womon in Development
Table 169. AgrIcultural Coordinator (Agriculture)
Detailed Cost Table
Da lal
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                  USa
90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/9S  9S/98  Total    93/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/9S Total
I. DIYESTMENT COSTS
A. training
staff mgnt. training/oth        11.8   12.8   13.8   14.9   18.1    0.0   69.3        1.5   1.6   1.7   1.8   2.0  0.0   8.6
Divisional meetings (2>         17.7   19.1   20.?   22.3   24.1    0.0  103.9        2.2   2.4   2.8   2.8   3.0   0.0  12.9
Sub-Total                        29.6   31.9   34.4   37.2   46.2    0.0  173.2        8.7   4.0   4.3   4.6   6.6   0.0  21.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  29.5   31.9   34.4   37.2   40.2    0.0  173.2        3.7   4.0   4.3   4.6   6.0   0.0  21.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. travel allowances                  4.7    7.7    8.3    8.9    9.6    8.4   42.7        0.8   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2   0.4   6.3
B. vehitcle oper. and maint          18.0   32.8   34.7   38.9   39.1   17.3  178.8        2.2   4.1   4.3   4.8   4.9   2.1  22.2
C. office supplies                   17.8   24.6   25.8   27.0   28.3    7.4  130.7        2.2   3.1   3.2   3.4   3.5   0.9  16.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   40.3   85.0   68.8  72.8   77.1   28.2  352.2         5.0   8.1   8.5   9.0   9.8   3.6  43.7
e   ==   ==2==    _            -                      -= ==- =                   - =- __     =                  w
Total                                89.8   98.9  103.2  110.0  117.3   28.2  526.4        8.7  12.0  12.8  13.6  14.5   3.S  65.2
<1> staff management training, 2per/month
<2> quarterly divisional meetings. Cost/yr for materlal, transport, food
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:12
'in
0 0



THE O..bi.
Women In Development
Table 110. Risk Identification and Management (Safe Motherhood)
Detalled Cost Table
Dalssi
quantity                             Unit Cost
90/91 91-9U 98/94 94/9S 96/4S Total    90/91  91-93  93/94  94/9S  9S/96
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works <1>
Rehab. of 85 trek. states.        o    1     6    0    0    as        0.00  89.80  89.80   0.00   9.00
Constr. of 10 health pst          0    S    0    0    0    10         0.00  92.87  0.00   0.00   0.00
S. Equipment and Furniture
Equipment (2>
Furniture (3>
C. Materials (4>                     _    _    _    _    _    _
D. Training
TBA Evaluation Workshop          -     -    -    -    -    -            -      -      -      -      -
In-serv trng(traind pore) (5>    -    -    -      -    -    -           -      -      -      -      -
8asic traing.(untrd TBAs) (8>    -    -    -      -    -    -           -      -      -      -      -                                   -
Pilot Kabilo training <7>        -    -    -    -    -    -             -      -
E. Research and Evaluation <8>        0    0    0       3    0      8      0.00   0.00   0.00   8.24   0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Equip. Buildgs. 0  M                    -
8. Office supplies
C. Fuel allowance
<( includes pit latrines
(2> stethoscopes; BP machines, delivery kits; cups, spoons, trays etc.
<3) couches, tables, chairs
<4> risk ID cards(10,000/year); drugs and PHC suppiles
<5> 285 staff(TBAs CHNstrekteams)xSdys;3trainaxSdysxlftraings/yxD170/dy
(8> 400 TBAsxSdysx660/dy; StuteorxSdysxlftraingsxDS0/dy
<7> 9 kblo msmbersx3dysxl6vllgexD069/dy; 1TSA and l01Nx3dysxlSvlgesxDSO/dy
<8> Evaluation of new training impact
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990  11:12                                                                                                   0 O
tli
u0



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 110. Risk Identification and Management (Safe Mothorhood)
Detailed Cost Table
Doalal
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Ineluding Contingencies                                      US8
90/91   91/92  92/93   93/94   94/96  9S/98  Total    90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/98  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works (1>
Rehab. of 35 trek. state.         0.0  736.1   778.5   273.8    0.0    0.0  1786.1         0.0  91.2  96.3  83.9   0.0    0.0  221.5
Constr. of 10 health psts         0.0   571.7  804.0     0.0    0.0    0.0  1176.7         0.0  70.9   74.9   0.0   0.0    0.0  146.9
Sub-Total                         0.0  1308.8  1380.5  273.8    0.0    0.0  2980.8          0.0  162.1  171.3  33.9   0.0    0.0  387.3
B. Equipment and Furniture
Equipment (2>                    0.0    0.0   88.7    13.9   14.6    0.0  117.2            0.0    0.0  11.0   1.7   1.8    0.0  14.S
Furniture (3>                     5.8    8.8   53.8   56.9   29.2    0.0  168.0            0.7   1.1   6.6    8.9    3.8    0.0  19.8
Sub-Total                          5.8    8.8  142.3   89.9   43.7    0.0  270.2            0.7    1.1  17.7   8.7   6.4    0.0  33.5
C. Materials (4)                      0.0   14.4   28.6   27.7   26.9    0.0   95.8             0.0    1.8   3.3   3.4   3.3    0.0  11.9
D. Training
TBA Evaluation Workshop         22.4    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0   22.4          2.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    2.8
In-serv trng(traind pers) (6>    0.0  113.8  123.0  132.8    0.0    0.0  369.6             0.0  14.1  16.3  18.5   0.0    0.0  45.9 I
Basic traing.(untrd TBAs) (8>    0.0   45.7   49.3   63.3    0.0    0.0  148.3             0.0    5.7   6.1    6.6    0.0    0.0  18.4 _
Pilot Kabilo training (7>         0.0   31.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.3            0.0   3.9   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    3.9 o.
Sub-Total                        22.4  190.8  172.3  186.1    0.0    0.0  571.6             2.8  23.7  21.4  23.1   0.0    0.0  70.9
E. Research and Evaluation (8>        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0   28.9    0.0   28.9          0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    3.6    0.0    3.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  28.0  1620.7  1721.7  667.1   99.6    0.0  3927.1          3.5  188.7  213.6  69.1  12.3   0.0  487.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. Equip. Buildgs. 0 i Mi             0.0    0.0   19.3   43.4   65.5    0.0  118.2             0.0   0.0    2.4   6.4   8.9    0.0  14.7
B. Office supplies                    13.3   18.4   19.3   20.8   21.2    7.0   99.5            1.6   2.3    2.4   2.6    2.6    0.9  12.3
C. Fuel allowance                     0.0    5.9    6.2       6.4    0.0    0.0   18.6          0.0   0.7    0.8    0.8   0.0    0.0    2.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   13.3   24.3   44.8   70.1   78.8    7.0  236.2             1.8   3.0    5.8   8.7    9.6   0.9  29.3
_  __=-- = =    -= = - --  ---= 
Total                                41.8  1646.0  1788.5  627.2  178.8    7.0  4163.3          6.1  191.7 219.2  77.8  21.9   0.9 616.6
(1> Includes pit latrines
(2> stethoscopes; BP machines, delivery kits; cups, spoons, trays etc.
(3> couches, tables, chairs
(4> risk ID cards(10,000/year); drugs and PiC supplies
(5> 285 staff(TBAs, CHNs,trekteams)x5dys;Strainsxsdysxlftraings/yxD170/dy                                                                     0 
(0> 400 TBAsxSJysxD5O/dy; Stutersx6dysx10tralngsxD5o/dy                                                                                       o 
(7> 9 kblo membersx3dysx1Sv lgesxD60fdy; 1TBA and 1CHNx3dysx1vl lgesxD88/dy                                                                   Th;
(8> Evaluation of new training impact                                                                                                         N
- Values scaled by 1000.0  4/28/1990  11:12                                                                                                  '
0 C



THE Gambla
Women In Development
Table 111. Local Evacuation and Tolecosmunications (Safe Motherhood)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity                              Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92-94 94/95 95/96 Total     90/91  91/92 92-94 94/96 96/98
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Radio equipment (1>                -           -     -           -                -      -             -
8. Vehicles
Animal drawn carts (196)         21     0    42     0     0   105      6.41   0.00   6.41   0.00  0.00
Animals (106)                    21     0   42      0    O   105       8.64   0.W0  a.64   0.90   0.00
C. Materials (2>                      -     -    -      -    -      -         -      -      -      -      -
D. Local specialist services (8>      -     -    -      -    -      -         -      -      -      -       -
E. Research and Evaluation <4>         0     1    0      3    0      4      0.00  12.48   0.00  12.48   0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Radio equipment mainten.           -     -     -           -               -      -      -      -       -
(1) radio equip., solar power modules for 4 base stations 10 outstations
(2) cables, connectors, cables and cable ties for radio Installation
(8> Castel consultant for telecommunication sub-component
(4) animal/ cart pilot evaluatlon; final evaluation sub-component
Unit Costs Scaled by 1900.0 4/26/1990 11:18
00a,
N
iD



THE Gambia
Women in Development
Table 111. Local Evacuation and Telecommunications (Safe Motherhood)
Detai led Cost. Table
ealasi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                       uS:
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/96   96/96   Total     90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  96/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
_______________
A. Radio equipment <1>               250.6  261.4      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0  611.9        31.1   32.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  63.5
8. Vehicles
Animal drawn carts (10S)        13S.1     0.0   315.2   340.4     0.0     0.0  790.7        16.8    0.0  39.1   42.2   0.0    0.0  98.1
Animals (106)                    90.9    0.0   212.2   229.1      0.0     0.0  532.2        11.3    0.0  28.3   28.4   0.0    0.0  66.0
Sub-Total                        226.1     0.0   527.4  569.8      0.0     0.0  1323.0      28.0    0.0   85.4   70.7    0.0    0.0  164.1
C. Materials (2>                       3.8     4.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    7.9        0.5    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
D. Local specialist services (3>       4.3     4.6     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    8.8         0.5    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   1.1
E. Research and Evaluation (4>         0.0    16.3     0.0     0.0   57.8      0.0    73.2       0.0    1.9    0.0    0.0    7.2   0.0    9.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  484.6   285.4   527.4   689.6    67.8     0.0  1924.8      60.1   35.4   86.4   70.7    7.2    0.0  238.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Radio equipment mainten.            0.0     0.0   44.6    77.9    81.7    34.2   238.6        0.0    0.0    5.6    9.7   10.1    4.2   29.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0     0.0    44.6    77.9    81.7    34.2   238.6        0.0    0.0    6.5    9.7   10.1    4.2   29.8 0
Total                                484.6   285.4   672.0  647.6   139.6    34.2  2183.3       60.1   35.4   71.0   80.3   17.3    4.2  288.4
(1> radio equip., solar power modules for 4 base stations 10 outstations
(2) cables, connectors, cables and cable ties for radio installation
(3) Gamtel consultant for telecommunication sub-component
<4> animal/ cart pilot evaluation; final evaluation sub-component
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:13
co 
o '
n0



THE Cambia
Women in Development
Table 112. Nutrition (Safe Motherhood
Oetailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity                       Unit Cost                             Base Costs
90/91   91-9S   95/96   Total      90/91   91-96   96/96      90/91   91/92  92/93   93-9K   95/96   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. 4 VD                                  1       0       0       1     130.97    0.00    0.00       131.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0   131.0
B. Local specialist
Hhold survey technique <1>         10       0       0      10       0.21    0.W0   0.00          2.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     2.1
C. Local training
Rural animation wkp.                1       0       0       1       7.49    0.00    0.00         7.5     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     7.5
Train of ext. wkrs (r/dy) <2>    1120       0       0    1120       0.18    0.00    0.00       198.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     O.0   198.0
Follow up (man/dy) <3>              0     790       0    3180       0.09    0.18    0.00         0.0  139.7   1!2.7  139.7       0.0  658.7
Trainers (man/dy) <4>             128      90       0     488       0.18    0.18    0.00        22.8    15.9   15.9   15.9       0.0   85.9
Driver (man/dy)                    21      1S       0      81       0.05    0.05    0.00         1.1     0.8    0.8    0.8       0.0     4.2
Sub-Total                                                                                       228.9   156.4   156.4  156.4      0.0   854.3
0. Micronutrients                     7500   10000    2500   50000       0.03    0.03    0.03       188.9  251.9   251.9  261.9   63.0  1259.4
E. Research and Evaluation <4>          -       -       -       -          -       -        -       140.9   140.9   41.8    48.8      0.0   417.0 0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                 891.8  649.2  449.8  465.0   63.0  2863.80
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. Vehicle oper. and maint              -       -       -       -          -       -        -        13.2    26.4   26.4   26.4    13.2   132.1
B. Fuel allowance <S>                                       -              -       -        -        54.8    73.0   73.0    73.0    18.3  385.1
C. Folk entertainers <8>                 0     200       0     800       0.00    0.31    0.00         0.0   62.4   82.4    62.4       0.0   249.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                   e8.0   181.8  181.8  161.8   31.5  748.8
Total                                                                                               759.8  711.0  811.7  861.9   94.S  3410.8
<1> 2trainers(S days) in household survey techniques
<2> training in message delivery 180 ext. workrs (7dysxDl70/dy)
<B> yearly follow up in-service training 180 ext. workrs
<4) trainers involved in training sessions (induction a.refresher training)
(5> houshld foodshelf, market food by season; vitem A def ie; qualit. surveys
(6> IS/liters/OCN/month for surveys (6S CHNs x 090 x 15 liters)
<7> 1 event/year x 200 villages
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:13
4'3
o C*
hi,f



THE Oambia
Women in Developsent
Table 112. Nutrition (Safe Motherhood)
Detailed Cost Table
Dataol
Base Costs in USS                          Totals Including Contingencies
90/91  91/92 92/93 93-95  96/96  Total      90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/9S  95/96  Total
I. DVESTMENT COSTS
A. 4 WD                            16.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  18.2         150.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1S0.8
8. Local specialist
Hhold survey technique (1>     0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3           2.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.4
C. Local training
Rural animation wkp.           0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.9           9.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.5
Train of ext. wkrs (r/dy) (2>  24.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  24.8        224.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  224.9
Follow up (man/dy) <(3         0.0  17.3  17.3  17.3   0.0  69.3           0.0  171.3  186.0  199.8  216.8    0.0  772.0
Trainers (man/dy) (4>          2.8   2.0   2.0   2.0   0.0  10.7          2S.3   19.S   21.1   22.8   24.8    0.0  113.2
Driver (man/dy)                0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.5           1.2    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.2    0.0    6.6
____ ------     ------     ------     ------     ------  -------     -------     -------    _ - - _---  -   -------   - -----
Sub-Total                      28.4  19.4  19.4  19.4   0.0 108.0         259.9  191.8  207.1  223.7  241.8    0.0 1124.1
D. Micronutrients                  23.4  31.2  31.2  31.2   7.8 156.2         217.1  300.8  312.8  324.7  337.4   87.6  1580.2
E. Research and Evaluation <4>     17.6  17.5   5.2   5.8   0.0  51.7         160.0  172.8   65.1   67.0   72.3    0.0  627.3
______    ------     --   ---     ------     -- ---     ------ ______  -------     -------     -------    ---- -     - ---  _  I
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                86.8  88.1  56.8  58.5   7.8 330.6         790.0  686.4  574.8  686.4  861.3   87.6 3384.S
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle oper. and maint          1.8   3.3   3.3   3.3   1.8  18.4          16.5   32.8   34.7   36.9   39.1   20.7  179.6
S. Fuel allowance (S>               8.8   9.1   9.1   9.1   2.8  46.3          62.2   89.6   98.7  104.4  112.8   30.3  496.1
C. Folk entertainers (6>            0.0   7.7   7.7   7.7   0.0  31.0           0.0   76.S   82.7   89.3   96.4    0.0  344.9
_____    ------    ------    ------    ------    ------  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------    -- ----
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  8.4  20.1  20.1  20.1   3.9  92.7          77.7  198.8  214.1  230.6  248.3   51.0 1020.8
Total                              94.3  88.2  75.9  7,.S  11.7 423.2         867.7  864.3  788.9  846.0  899.7  138.8 4405.1
<1> 2trainers(S days) in household survey techniques
(2> training in message delivery 160 ext. workrs (7dysxD170/dy)
(3> yearly follow up in-service training 160 ext. workrs
(4> trainers involved in training sessions (induction a.refresher training)
(6> houshid foodshelf, market food by season; vitam A defic; qualit. surveys
<6> 1I/liters/CHN/month for surveys (86 CHNs x D90 x 15 liters)
<7> 1 event/year x 200 villages
- Values scaled by 100W.0 4/26/1990 11:14
GQ
o co
%o



THE Gambia
Woen  In lDevelop_nt
Table 112. Nutrition (Safe Motherhood)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies            Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.          IDA
USe                                        US$                   Fin. in US2
90/91  91/92  92/93 93/94 94/96 95/98  Total       F.Exch   L.-xal   Taxes  Total    98-98  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. 4 VO                              18.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  18.7            18.7    0.0      0.0   18.7        0.0    0.0
B. Local specialist
Hhold survey technique (1>       0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.3            0.0    0.3    0.0       0.3       0.0    0.0
C. Local training
Rural animation wkp.             1.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    1.1           0.0    1.1    0.0       1.1       0.0    0.0
Train of ext. wkrs (m/dy) <2>  27.9   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  27.9             0.0   27.9    0.0    27.9         0.0    0.0
Follow up (man/dy) (8>          0.0  21.8  28.0  24.8   26.8   0.0  96.8             0.0   95.8    0.0    95.8         0.0   0.0
Trainers (man/dy) <4>            3.1   2.4   2.6   2.8   8.1    0.0  14.1            0.0   14.1    0.0   14.1          0.0    0.0
Driver (man/dy)                  0.2   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.0   0.7           0.0    0.7      0.0     0.7       0.0    0.0
Sub-Total                        82.2  23.8  26.7   27.8  30.0   0.0  139.6           0.0   139.6     0.0   139.6       0.0    0.0
0. Micronutrients                    28.9  37.3  38.8  40.3   41.9  10.9  198.1         196.1    0.0    0.0   196.1          0.0    0.0
E. Research and Evaluation (4>       19.9  21.4   6.8   8.3    9.0   0.0  86.4            0.0   85.4      0.0   6S.4         0.0   0.0
______     ------     ------    ------     ------    ------     ------  -------   _____   -------     -------  _ _----  ---
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  98.0  82.6  71.3  76.4   80.8  10.9 419.9          214.7   205.2    0.0   419.9        0.0   0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle oper. and maint            1.9   4.1   4.3   4.6   4.9    2.6  22.3           10.2   12.1    0.0    22.3         0.0   0.0
S. Fuel allowance (5>                 7.7  11.1  12.0  13.0  14.0   3.8  81.6             0.0   61.6    0.0   81.6          0.0   0.0
C. Folk entertainers <(>             0.0   9.6  10.3  11.1  12.0   0.0  42.8              0.0   42.8    0.0    42.8         0.0   0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    9.6  24.7  28.6  28.6  30.8   8.3  126.8           10.2  118.4      0.0  126.8        0.0   0.0
Total                               107.7  107.2  97.9  105.0  111.8  17.2  648.6       224.9  321.6    0.0   546.6         0.0    0.0
(1> 2trainers(S days) in household survey techniques
(2> training in message delivery la ext. workrs (7dysxD170/dy)
<a> yearly follow up in-service training 160 ext. workrs
<4> trainers Involved in training sessions (induction a.refresher training)
(6> houshid foodshelf, market food by season; vitam A defIc; qualit. surveys
<8> 16/liters/CHN/month for surveys (66 OCNs x 090 x 16 liters)
(7> 1 event/year x 200 villages
- Values scaled by 1001.0 4/28/1990 11:14
OQ Z
o co
Fh
n0



TtE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 113. Family Planning (Safe Motherhood)
Detalled Cost Table
Dales)
Quantity                                 Unit cost
90/91 91/92 92-94 94/9f  95/96 Ttatl     90/91   91/92   92-94   94/95   96/96
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles
Motorcycles                        0     2     2     2     0     8       4.00    9.07    9.07    9.07   0.00
Double cabin pickups               1     2     0     a     0     a      115.86  116.86    0.00   0.00    0.00
B. moarials <1>                        -     -     _     _     _        _        _       _
C. Local training
lmplementn planning wkp (2<        1    0      0     0     0     1       0.04    0.00   0.00    0.01    0.00
UrbanARural CBDs (an all) (8>      1     1     1     1     0     6       21.63   21.83   21.68   21.63    0.00
CNs* (ann. all.) (4>               0     1     1     1     0     4       0.00   14.14   14.14   14.14    0.00
Extension workers (5>             -     -     -     -     -     -          -        _       _       _
Drug dispensers(ann.all.) (6>      1     1     1    0      0     4       13.26   18.26   13.26   0.00    0.01
Pharmacists (ann. all.) (7>        0     1     1     1    0      4       0.00    1.68    I.56    1.68    0.00
D. Specialist services
Lcl specialist  (m/mth) (8>        a    0      0    a      0     a       6.24    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
fam.life tutorseann.al .)          0     1     1     1     0     4       0.010  39.00  39.00   89.00   0.00
Foreign specialists (9>            1     1    0      0     0     2      90.67   90.67    0.00   0.00    0.00
E. Research ard Evaluation (10)        -     -     -     -     -     -          -        -       -       -       -
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ;uel,travel allowances              -    -    -       -     -     -          -        -       -       -       -
B. Vehicle oper. and maint.            -     -     -     -     -     -          -       _        _       _       _
C. Office supplies                     -     -     -     -     -     -          -        -      -        -       -
(1> Coo kits, training supplies, printing record foruts, family life materls
(2> S0 staffx 4dysxDl7O/dy; NDI conference room rental                                                                                         o tQ
(8> 60 COB agents, follow uo in-service training
<4> 8 CNNs In supervision techniques, follow up In-setrvice training
<6> 20 extension wkrs/y In FP motivation x2dysxD75/dy; 2trnrsx2dy9/yxD170/d
(8> 100 drug d;spensersxSdysxD170/dy                                                                                                            o 0
(7> 1 day annual meetings with pharmacists
(<> private sect FP delivery study
(9> intl coordinator implementation planning wkp; intl spec. Infertility sty
<10> CBD agents non-PHC areas lncentive system; Infertity sty A natl discuss
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11t14



THE Gambia
Women in Development
Table 118. Family Planning (Safe Motherhood)
Detailed Cost Table
Delasl
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                      USe
90/91   91/92  92/93   93/94   94/95   95/98  Total    90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/96 95/96  TotlI
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles
Motorcycles                       60.    21.7   22.6   23.4   24.3    0.0   91.8            0.0   2.7    2.8   2.9    3.0   0.0  11.4
Double cabin pickups            133.2  276.8    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  409.9        16.6  34.3   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  60.9
Sub-Total                        133.2  298.4   22.5   23.4   24.3    0.0  501.8            16.6  37.0   2.8   2.9   3.0   0.0  82.3
B. materials <1>                      29.3   46.7    47.6    49.4    61.3   10.6  233.7          3.6   6.7    6.9   6.1   6.4    1.3  29.0
C. Local treAning
Implementn planning wkp <2>       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
Urban&Rural C80s (an all) (3>    24.6   26.5   28.7   30.9   33.4    0.0  144.1              3.0   3.3   3.6   3.8   4.1   0.0   17.9
CHNs (ann. all.) <4)              0.0   17.3    18.7    20.2   21.9    0.0    78.2          0.0   2.2    2.3   2.5   2.7   0.0    9.7
Extension workers <5)             4.4    4.7    6.1       5.5     5.9    0.0   25.8         0.S   0.6    0.8   0.7   0.7    0.0    3.2
Drug dispensers(ann.all.) <8)    15.1   18.3   17.8   19.0    0.0    0.0   67.9              1.9   2.0    2.2   2.4   0.0   0.0    8.4
Pharmacists (ann. all.) <7)       0.0     1.9    2.1      2.2     2.4    0.A      8.6       0.0   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0    1.1
Sub-Total                         44.0   e6.8   72.1   77.9   63.8    0.0  324.5             5.5   8.3    8.9   9.7    7.9   0.0  40.3'-
D. Specialist services
Lcl specialists (mlmth) <8>      21.3    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0   21.3         2.8   0.0   0.0   o.0   0.0   0.0    2.6
fam.life tutors(ann.all.)         0.0   47.8    61.7   65.8   60.3    0.0  216.6            0.0   6.9   6.4    6.9    7.S   0.0   28.7
Foreign specialists <9>          99.5  103.4      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0  202.9         12.3   12.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  25.2
Sub-Total                        120.8   151.2    51.7   55.8   60.3    0.0  439.7          15.0   18.8   6.4    6.9   7.5   0.0  54.6
E. Research and Evaluation <10>        6.0    0.0  109.5       0.0    0.0    0.0  114.5          0.8    0.0  13.6   0.0    0.0   0.0  14.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  332.2  562.1  303.3  206.4  199.5   10.5  1614.1           41.2  69.7  37.6  25.6  24.7   1.3 200.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Fuel,travel allowances              0.0    6.4    6.9       7.4     8.0    0.0   28.7         0.0    0.8   0.9   0.9    1.0   0.0    3.6
8. Vehicle oper. and maint.           61.1   86.5   91.7   97.3   25.8   27.2  389.6             7.6  10.7  11.4  12.1    3.2    3.4  48.3
C. Office supplies                    11.7   24.6    25.8    27.0   28.3    7.4   124.9          1.5   3.1    3.2   3.4    3.5   0.9   15.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    72.8   117.4  124.4   131.8   82.1    34.7   S43.2         9.0   14.8   16.4  16.3   7.7   4.3   87.4
=~ == _- =o5Q ===_ == 9 =    =- -  _= _
Total                                405.1  879.6  427.7   388.2  281.6    45.2  2157.3         60.8   84.3   63.1  42.0   32.6   5.6  287.7
<1> ceo kits, training supplies, printing record formts, family life materls
<2> 50 staffx 4dysxDO70/dy; MDI conference room rental
<8> 80 CDO agents, follow uo in-service training
<4> 8 CHNs in supervision techniques, follow up in-service training
<(> 20 extension wkres/y in FP motivation x2dysxD76/dy; 2trnrsx2dys/yxD170/d
(6> 100 drug dispensersx3dysxDl70/dy
<7) 1 day annual meetings with pharmacists                                                                                                     oDW
<8> private sect FP delivery study                                                                                                               I
(9> intl coordinator implementation planning wkp- intl spec. Infertility sty
<10> CBD agents n*'n-PHC areas incentive system; Iofertlty sty & natl discuss
- Values sealed xy 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:14                                                                                                  10



THE Gambia
Woeon In Development
Table 114. Strengthen Department of Cowaunity Development (Skills bov.)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalast
quantity                            Unit Cost
90/91 91092 92-94 94/96 96/96 Total     90/91   91/92   92-9S  96/98
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture <1>       -    -    -    -    -    -              -       -       -       -
B. Vehicles
motorcycles (100ec)             1S   16    0    0          ao 8      14.10  14.10   0.00   0.00
motorcycles (stop thru)         10   10    0    0    0   20           9.07    9.07   0.00   0.00
vehicles  7 4x4, 1 van)          8    0    0    0    0    8    180.97   0.00   0.00   0.00
Vehicles (sedan)                 2    0    0    0    0    2         116.86   0.00   0.00   0.00
C. Training
Local Training <2>              -    -    -    -    -    -              -       -       -       -
Study Tour <3>                  12    0    0    0    0   12          20.91    0.00   0.00   0.00
D. Specialist services
Small Business developet         0    6   12    6    0   38           0.00  76.07   76.07    0.00
Curriculum A traing desgn        6    6    0    0    0    12         78.07  76.07   0.00   0.00
Credit                           0    9    0    0    0    9           0.00  76.07   0.00   0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Oporat. and Malnt <6>
B. Office Supplies <8>
(1> desks, ehairs, duplicators, typewrts, training recording system
(2> In-service, refresher training for S8 CDAe, retrain. home craft assts.
<e 10 man months study tour In Africa
<S> vehicles and motorcycles
<6> stationary for offiee and workshops
Unit Costs Sealed by 1W00.0 4/28/1990  11:15
o 0
U'



THE Gambia
Womn Ia Development
Table 114. Strengthen Deportment of Comeunity Development (Skills Dev.)
Detailed Cost Table
0. lasi
Totals Including Contblgencles
s/OX   901/92   02/09   93/94   94/96   96/9S   Total
I. DNESTNT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furnlture (1>       41.5    43.8    28.8       o.0      0.0      0.0   108.4
8. Vehicles
motorcycles (100cc)             243.2   252.7      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   495.9
motorcycles (step thru)         104.2   108.3      6.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   212.5
vehicles ( 7 4x4 1 van)        1204.4     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  1204.4
Vehicles (sedan)                286.4     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   266.4
- -- - - -- - -- -- -_- _- - - -- - - - - -- -  _- - ----- ----- -   --
Sub-Total                       1818.2   861.0      0.0      0.0     0.6      0.0  2179.2
C. Training
Local Training <2>              189.0   204.1   220.4   238.1   267.1        0.0  1108.7
Study Tour (8>                  275.3     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   275.8
Sub-Total                       464.2   204.1   220.4   238.1   267.1         0.0  1383.9
D. Specialist services
Small Business developmt         0.0   526.8  1081.2  1128.4   503.6         0.0  3308.5
Curriculum A traing desgn       GM0.$   S20.3      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  1021.1
Credit                            0.0   780.5      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   780.6
------------------------         -      -      -----
Sub-Total                        50.8  1821.1  1081.2  1128.4   683.8         0.0  5110.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                2824.8  2429.6  1832.2  1361.4   846.7         0.0  8781.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle Operat. and Maint (6)    262.7   63S.7   s8s.2   802.8   639.8   853.8  2965.6
S. Office Supplies (6)               22.a      9.0      4.2      4.4     4.6      4.8    50.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  276.0   648.6   572.4   607.2   644.4   868.6  3e33.2
Total                              8099.8  2976.0  1897.6  1968.6  1485.1   358.6  11784.7
(1) desks, chairs, duplicators, typewrts, training recording system
(2> In-service, refresher tratntng for 50 CDAt, retratn. home craft assts.
<(> 10 nan months study tour in Africa
<(> vehicles and motorcycles
<(> stationary for office and workshops
- Values scaled by 100.0 4/28/1990  11:1S
o l
In



THE Gambla
Women in Development
Table 114. Strengthen Department of Coamuntty Development (Skills Dev.)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalast
To'Wals Including Contingencies               Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.          ItA
US8                                           uSS                   Fin.  -  I
90/91   91/92  92/93  9a/94   94/96  96/98  Total        F.Exch  Local   Taxes  Total       90-98  Total
__ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ - _       __ __ -__        __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __    _  _ __  _ _
I. IVESTMENT COSTS
_______________
A. Equipment and Furniture <1>         5.2    5.4     2.9    0.0      0.0    0.0   13.6         12.0    1.6      0.0   13.6        0.0    0.0
8. Vehicles
motorcycles (lOOcc)             80.2   31.4    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0   81.6          61.6    0.0    8.0   61.5          0.0   0.0
motorcycles (step thru)         12.9   13.4    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   26.4         28.4     0.0    0.0   26.4         0.0   0.0
vehicles ( 7 4x4, 1 van)       149.4    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  149.4        149.4    0.0      0.0  149.4        0.0   0.0
Vehicles (sedan)                33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.0             33.0    0.0    0.0   33.0          0.0   0.0
   ---  -------  -------   ____- _-    -- - __    -  -- -  ----- -_ --- -   -           _____   ______---
Sub-Total                       22S.8   44.8    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0  270.4        270.4    0.0    0.0  270.4          0.0   0.0
C. Tralning
Local Training <2>              28.4   2S.3   27.3   29.6   31.9    0.0  137.8              0.0   137.6    0.0  137.8         0.0    0.0
Study Tour (3>                  34.2    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   34.2         34.2    0.0    0.0   34.2          0.0    0.0
 __  -   -------       _ -  -   -  -           ______ -  -               ___     ____---- -   _ -   _-_-_
Sub-Total                        67.6   26.3   27.3   29.6   31.9    0.0  171.7             34.2  137.6      0.0  171.7        0.0   0.0
D. Specialist services
Small Business developet         0.0   84.8  134.1  139.4   72.4    0.0  410.5            410.5     0.0     0.0  410.6        0.0    0.0..
Curriculum a traing desgn       82.1   84.6    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  128.7        128.7    0.0    0.0  128.7          0.0   0.0 *
Credit                           0.0    98.8    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   96.8          98.8    0.0      0.0   96.8        0.0   0.0 
-       - ----------------  ------ ---------------  
Sub-Total                        82.1  226.9  184.1  189.4   72.4    0.0  6S4.0            834.0    0.0      0.0  634.0        0.0    0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 350.5  301.4  184.4  168.9  104.8    0.0  1089.5           950.5  139.0    0.0  1089.5         0.0    0.0
II. RECURRENt COSTS
A. Vehicle Operat. and Maint (5>     31.4   66.6   70.6   74.8   79.4   43.9  386.4            187.9  198.6    0.0  368.4          0.0   0.0
8. Office Supplies <8>                2.8     1.2    0.6    0.5       0.6    0.6      6.2        4.8     1.4    0.0      8.2       0.0    0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   84.1   67.7   71.0   76.3   80.0   44.6  872.8            172.7  199.9    0.0  372.8          0.0   0.0
_=    ====== =======   ==__ ======= -
Total                               384.8  389.1  23s.4  244.2  184.3   44.5  1482.1    1123.2  a83.9    0.0  1482.1               0.0    0.0
(1> desks, chairs, duplicators, typewrts, training recording system
(2> ln-service, refresher training for 50 CDAs, retrain. home craft assts.
<8> 10 man months study tour In Africa
<5) vehicles and motorcycles
<6> stationary for office and workshops
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990  11:16
o c
'.h



THE Gasbla
Women In Development
Table 115. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity           Unit co"b             Base Costs            Base Costs in US8
90/91 91-98 Total      90/91   91-98     90/91  91-98  Total    90/91  91-96 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE            -    -      -         -        -        0.0    o.o    0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0
8. VEHICLES
PROJECT MANAGER                  0    0    0         0.00   0.00         0.6    6*0    0*0         0.0   0.0    0.0
41D                               1    0      1    130.97    6.00      131.0    g.0  ia1.o        18.2   a.0  18.2
UTILITY VAN                       1    0      1     11.81    6.0W     151.8    0.0  161.6        18.8   0.0  18.8
Sub-Total                                                               282.8    0.0  282.6        35.1   0.0  36.1
C. INT.CONFERENCES/SEMINARS            1    1    6        8.0     8.068       8.1    8.1   48.4         1.0    1.0   8.0
D. SPECIALIST SERVICES
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST            2    0     2      90.67    0.00      181.3    0.0  181.3        22.S   0.0  22.5
AUDITOR (MAN-MONTh)               1    2    11       50.37   60.37      50.4  100.7  654.1         8.2  12.S  68.7
Sub-Total                                                               231.7  100.7  736.S        28.7  12.S  91.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                         522.4  108.8  1068.4       e4.8  13.5  132.3                      C-
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel
Project manager (year) <1>        1    1    8        74.88  74.88       74.9   74.9  449.3         9.3    9.3  65.7
Deputy Pr.Manager (year) <1>      1    1    8       49.92   49.92       49.9   49.9  299.6         8.2   6.2   37.2
Project Accountant (year) <1>     1     1    8      33.28   38.28       33.3   33.3  199.7         4.1    4.1  24.8
Sub-Total                                                               158.1   158.1  948.5       19.6   19.8  117.7
B. An.Travel costs A allow.            1    1    8       19.76   19.78       19.8   19.8  118.6         2.5   2.5   14.7
C. An cost for Veh. O&M
Sedan (year)                      1    1    8       18.38   18.38       18.4   18.4   98.3         2.0   2.0  12.2
4wd (year)                        1    1    8       28.62   28.82       28.8   26.6  159.7         3.3    3.3  19.8
OaM for Utility Van               1    1    6       28.82  28.62        28.8   28.8  169.7         3.3   3.3  19.8
Sub-Total                                                                69.8   89.8  417.7         8.6   8.8   51.8
D. An. cost for Equpt OaM              1    1    8        8.11    8.11        8.1     8.1   48.7        1.0    1.0   6.0
E. An. Cost for Office suppl          1    1    8        20.28  20.28        20.3   20.3  121.7         2.5   2.6  15.1
Totl  RECURRENT COSTS                                                          275.8  275.8  1668.1       34.2  34.2  205.3
= ==  =  = = ==t
Total                                                                       798.2  384.7  2721.5       99.0  47.7  337.7
<1> Financed by AfD8                                                                                                                          w
Unit Cost. Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990  11:16
0 co



THE Gambie
Women In Development
Table 115. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                         USa
90/91   91/92   92/983  98/94   94/96   96/96   Total       90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/96  96/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
B. VEHICLES
PROJECT MANAGER                    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.9     9.9     9.9      O.9       0.0    0.0    0.0    O.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
4WD                              150.6     0.0      0.0     9.0     0.0     0.0   150.6       18.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   18.7
UTILITY VAN                      174.9     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   174.9       21.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.7
Sub-Total                         826.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     9.0     0.0   326.6       40,4    0.0    0.0    9.0    0.0    0.0   40.4
C. INT.CONFERENCES/SEUINARS             8.8     9.2      9.6     9.9    10.8    10.7    68.6        1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3    7.3
D. SPECIALIST SERVICES
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           199.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   199.0       24.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   24.7
AUDITOR (MAN-MONTH)               55.3   114.9   119.3  124.0   128.8   133.7   678.0          6.9   14.3   14.8   16.4   16.0   16.6   83.9
Sub-Total                         254.3   114.9   119.3   124.0   128.8   138.7   875.0        31.6   14.3   14.8   18.4   16.0   18.8  lf9.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   588.8   124.0   128.9   133.9   139.1   144.4  1259.0        73.0   16.4   16.0   16.8   17.3   17.9  156.2 -
Il. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                    
A. Personnel
Project manager (year) <1>        85.0    91.8    99.2   107.1   115.7   124.1   822.9        10.8   11.4   12.3   13.3   14.4   16.4   77.8
Deputy Pr.Manager (year) <1>    56.7    81.2    88.1    71.4    77.1    82.7   416.3           7.0    7.6    8.2    8.9    9.6   10.3   51.6
Project Accountant (year) <1>    37.8    40.8    44.1    47.6    51.4   65.1   278.9           4.7    6.1    6.5    5.9    6.4    8.8   34.4
Sub-Total                         179.6   193.9   209.4   228.2   244.2   261.9  1316.1        22.3   24.1   28.0   28.1   30.3   32.5  163.2
B. An.Travel costs a allow.            22.4    24.2    28.2    28.3    80.5    32.7   164.4         2.8    3.0    3.2    8.6    8.8    4.1   20.4
C. An cost for Veh. O&M
Sedan (year)                      19.2    20.3    21.5    22.9    24.8    26.8   133.8         2.4    2.5    2.7    2.8    3.0    3.2   18.8
4wd (year)                        81.1    88.0    36.9    87.1    89.4    41.7   217.4         8.9    4.1    4.8    4.8    4.9    S.2   27.0
Ohm for Utility Van               81.1    83.0   38.0    37.1    89.4    41.7   217.4          3.9    4.1    4 3    4.8    4.9    6.2   27.0
Sub-Total                          81.4    96.8    91.8    97.2   198.1   109.0   568.7        10.1   10.7   11.4   12.1   12.8   13.6   70.6
D. An. cost for Equpt o0M               9.4     9.8    10.3    10.8    11.8    11.9    88.s         1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.5    7.9
E. An. Cost for Office suppl           23.6    24.6    26.8    27.0    28.a    29.8   158.8         2.9    8.1    3.2    8.4    8.5    3.7   19.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    818.8   888.9   388.2   889.4   417.8   446.1  2270.6        89.2   42.0   45.1   48.3   S1.8   66.2  281.7
=t =z= -=a=== == =                                                                                 = G==
Total                                 994.8   483.0   492.1   523.8  S58.7   589.S  8529.5        112.8   57.4   81.1   84.9   69.1   73.1  437.9
<1> Financed by AfDB
- Values scaled by 1990.0  4/26/1990  11:16
00
oU



TH Gambia
Women in Deoelopment
Table 116. Skill Development Program (Skil ls Development)
Dotalled Cost Table
Dlals)
Quantity                                Unit Cost
90/91  91/92  92/98  93-95 96/96  Total    90/91  01/92  92/98  93-95  96/96
I. INVESTlENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture (1>        -                                            -             -      -      -
S. Skill Training
Village Exchange Visit*           76    76    76    75        0    376      0.21   0.21  0.21  0.21   0.06
train, women facilitators        26    26    26    26         0    125       6.60  0.6   8.60  8.60  0.a6
Planning & implem wkp              1     0      0      0      a      1     11.78   6.o0  6.66   6.w0  6.06
Orientation wkp monitorp          5  6          6 O       O          6      6.24  0.90   0.06   6.00  0.90
progrom orientation wkp-
Divisional monitrng wkps          0      6      6      6      6     2S      0.00   4.99  4.99   4.99  4.99
C. Materials
Publication production           -      -      -                             -       -          -         -
post litereay materials           2      2      2      8      0     10      0.02   0.02  0.02   0.02   0.00
2. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Honoraria to Facilitators          90   126   126   125    38   826           4.99   4.99  4.99   4.99  4.99
9. Stationery (2>                      2      0   2008  200   2000   002         0.03   0.00  0.03   0.09   0.03
(1> gas laops and refills, locking cupbd/sholves, duplicator stencils etc.
<2> stationary for 19,990 womn
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:17
1tI2
x 0



THE Cambia
Women in Development
Table 11. Skill Development Program (Skills Development)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasl
Totals Including Contingencies
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    96/98    Total
I. INVESNT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture (1>          15.9      20.2     21.6     28.9      29.2      0.0    114.0
B. Skill Training
Vtilage Exchange Visit*            17.7     19.1      20.7     22.8     24.1       0.0    108.9
trotn. women fecilitators         184.5    199.3    215.3    232.6    251.1        0.0   1082.7
Planning & implem wkp              18.3      0.0       9.0      9.9      9.9       0.9     13.3
Orientation wkp monitorg           86.4      0.9       O.0      o.o      0.0       9.9     36.4
program orientation wkps          724.0   781.9    844.S        0.0      0.0       0.0   2860.S
Divisional monitrng wkps            0.0     30.0    38.1       35.7     38.8      41.4    179.3
Sub-Total                          976.0   1081.0   1118.5    298.5    318.7       41.4   3766.1
C. Materials
Publication production            622.8    880.1       0.0    871.5    894.8       0.0   1718.8
post litercay materials             O.0      0.0      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.0       0.3
               --------- --           --------
Sub-Total                          622.9    830.2       0.1    371.6    894.4       0.0   1719.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   1612.9   1381.4   1186.1    690.0    737.3       41.4   6698.1
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Honoraria to Facilitators           510.2    765.4    828.0    892.7    964.1    289.6   4248.5
S. Stationary <2>                        0.1      0.0      77.8    81.1      86.0      88.9   382.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     510.3    765.4    908.9    973.8   1049.1    378.4   4580.8
::S===  == ztzN= 3==== ==                     =3= ==
Total                                 2128.2   2148.7   2039.0   1866.8   1788.4    419.7  10178.9
<1> gas lamps and refills, locking cupbd/shelv.s, duplicator stencils etc.
(2> tationary for 10,900 women
- Valuos scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:17
I!



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 118. SkIll Dovelopment Program (Skills Development)
Dotalled Cost Table
Dolost
Totals Including Contingoncies                Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.          IDA
US$                                           USS                   Fin. in US1
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/98   Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total    90-9B  Total
__________________.                                 ...........---------------- . -------------__-. -.-________________------
I. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture (1>         1.9    2.S    2.7    3.6    8.8    0.0   14.1            12.6    1.8    0.0   14.1          0.0    0.0
S. Skill Training
Villoge Exchange Visits          2.2    2.4      2.6    2.6      a.0    e.0   12.9          0.0   12.9    0.0   12.9          0.0    0.0
train. women facilitators       22.9   24.7   26.7   29.8   31.2    0.9  134.3              0.0   184.3    9.0  134.3         0.o    9.0
Planning a lmplem wkp             1.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    9.0    9.0         1.6        0.0     1.6    0.0      1.6       0.0    0.0
Orientation wkp monitorg         4.4     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         4.4        0.0    4.4    0.0       4.4       0.0    0.0
program orientation wkps        89.8   97.0  104.8    0.0    o.0    0.0  291.6              0.0  291.8    0.0  291.6          0.0    0.0
Divisional monitrng wkps          0.0     3.8    4.1      4.4    4.9    5.1   22.2          0.0   22.2    0.0   22.2          0.0    0.0
-  _                                                                                           _
Sub-Total                        121.0  127.9  138.1   36.0   88.9    6.1  467.1             0.0  487.1    0.0  467.1          0.0    0.0
C. Materials
Publication production           77.3   41.0    0.0   48.1   48.9    0.0  213.2            99.6  113.8    0.0  213.2          0.0    0.0
post litercay materials          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0              0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0
Sub-Total                         77.3   41.0    0.0   46.1   48.9    0.0  213.3            99.5  113.9    0.0  213.3          0.0    9.0F-
Total INWESTMENT COSTS                 200.1  171.4  140.8   86.6   91.5    5.1  694.6            112.0  682.6    0.0  694.5          0.0   0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. Honoraria to Facilitators         83.3   96.0  102.8  110.8  119.6   36.9  627.1              0.0  627.1    0.0  627.1          0.0   0.0
8. Stationary <2>                     0.0     0.0    9.6   10.1   10.5   11.0   41.2            31.6    9.7      0.0   41.2        9.0   0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   83.3   95.0  112.1   120.8  180.2   46.9  688.3            31.6   636.8    0.0  668.3         0.0   0.0
= c===__=== -_= =2===== ====  ==~=  -e----             -       ---== =-=  =======  -   _--
Total                               263.4   266.3   253.9  208.4  221.8   62.1  1282.9         143.8  1119.3    0.0  1262.9        0.0   0.0
(1> gas lamps and refills, locking cupbd/shelves, duplicator stencils ete.
<2) stationary for 10,000 women
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:17
OQZ
w
VI
%0



- 1 54 -                             ANNEX 3-8
Page 37 of 59
~~* 1i oiil Ii
m 3:      3       1 i  
-2!    esis it
*    3;1   i|       13
ot 3
5 3m  *i  3    443



THE Gambla
Women In Development
Table 117. Improving Access to Credit  (Skills Development)
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies                                         USl
90/91   91/92   92/93   98/94   94/96   96/96   Total       90/91  91/92  92/93  98/94  94/95  95/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TA Office Set                 4.2     0.0      0.0     o.o     0.0     0.0      4.2       O.5    0.0    6.0    0.0    0.0    g.o    o.s
8. Revolving Credit Fund         6.6  1382.8  1439.0  1620.6  1607.4      0.0  6929.8        6.0  169.0  178.5  189.7  199.4    0.0  7as.8
Total INWESTMENT COSTS              4.2  1382.8  1489.0  1520.8  1607.4       0.0  6933.6       0.5  169.0  178.6  188.7  199.4    0.0  7386.2
r == c=== =_ _ =  _    ==                                           =   === = -
Total                            4.2  1382.3  1439.0  1520.6  1807.4      0.0  5933.5        0.6  169.0  178.5  189.7  199.4    0.0  738.2
- Values scaled by 1000.0  4/28/1990  11:17
V
0 O
o ,
'C



THE Gamble
Women in Development
Tablo 119. Strengthening of the Women Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasl
quantity                                    unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92/93 9a/94 94/96 95/96 Total      96/91   91/92   92/93  93/94   94-96
I. INNESTYENT COSTS
A. Office Building (1>                - <         -     -     -     -    -           -        -       -       -       -
8. Dotatton of Equipt & Furn          -     -     -     -     -     -      -          -       -       -       -       -
C. Transportation
411 for liaion                    1    0      0     a     0     O     1    116.86    0.00     0. 00 9.00    O.00
Motorcycles                      10           0     a     9     9    19      14.10   9.O0    0.00   9.99    0.90
0. Materials
Annual Publication                1     1    1      1     1    9      S      78.58   78.C6   73.50   79.S5  70.58
An. Alloc. Docmentation          -     -     -     -     -     -     -           -       -       -       - 
E. Training
An. Alloc. for Local Tral         1    1      1     1     I    0      C      33.28   83.28   33.28   83.28  U3.28
An Alloc. Training Abroad         1     1     1    9      0     O     a      6S.41   S5.41   6S.41    0.00   o.9e
An. Alloc. for Seminars           1     1     1     1     1    0      C     123.76  123.70  123.76  123.76  123.76
F. Speciallsts Services
Local Specialist (Month)          4    6      4     4     0     O    18      20.30  20.30   29.80   20.809   9.0
let. Specialist (manth)           1    1    O       O     9     9     2      90.67   90.6t7   9.99    9.90    o.o
0. An. Alloc for Res.& Evel.           1    1      1     1     1     0      5      60.45  60.46  86.4S   60.46  60.45
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel
Researcher (man-year)             1    1      1     1     1    0       S     41.68   41.60   41.69   41.60   41.69
Planners (man-year)               2     2    2      2     2     1    19      41.69   41.69   41.90   41.60  41.69
Editor (man-yesr)                 1     1     1     1     1     9     6       5.86   36.86   356.a8   86.36   85.36
Documentalist (man-year)          1     1     1     1     1     0     6      29.12   29.12   29.12   29.12   29.12
Field Officers                    8    10    1O   19   19       3    so      17.66    T.68   17.66   17.66   17.60
Soc. Scientist (man-year)         1     1        1     1  1    0      6      41.69   41.00   41.60  41.60   41.60
8. An. Travel costs & Allow.           1     1     1     1     1    e       5     123.76  128.76  123.78  123.76  128.78
C. An. Cost for Veh. OdIM
4wd                               1    1      1     1     1    0       6      16.83   16.83   16.39   16.86  16.83
Motorcycles                       8   19    10    10    10      a    59        8.97    3.97    8.97    3.97    3.97
0o z
fD V
D. An. Cost for Equipt.Matnt           1    1      1     1     1     9     5       4.08    4.96    4.96    4.08    4.99
E. An Cost for Office Suppl.           1     1    1       1     1     1    6       20.28   20.28   20.28   20.28  29.28
<1> Net areau4m2. gross aree-725m2 at D2,M9S/m2 lncuding site dew.
Unit Costs Scaled Iy 1090.0 4/26/1999 11:18



THE Gambla
Women in Development
Table 119. Strengthening of the Women Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
Dalrsi
Totals Including Contingencies
90/91    91/92    92/93    98/94    94/96    9S/96   Total
I. INVESTMET COSTS
A. Office Building (1>               1019.7   1615.9      O.0       0.0      6.6      0.0  268s.5
B. Dotation of Equipt    Furn         227.4      O.9      0.0       O.0      O.O      e.0    227.4
C. Transportation
4WD for liaison                  133.2      0.0      O.0      0.0      6.O       0.0   188.2
Motorcycles                      162.1      O.O      O.O      O.O      0.0       6.0   182.1
Sub-Total                         295.8      0.0      0.e      0.0      6.0      0.0   296.8
D.Materials
Annual Publication                67.7     93.9     97.5    161.8    10S.s      27.8    4983.0
An. Alloc. Documentation          29.6     80.1     18.8     19.5     20.2       7.6    124.6
___~~~~~~~~ ------  --- ___ _ _ __________  __ _ 
Sub-Total                          96.7    123.9    116.8    120.8    125.5      84.8   617.5
E. Training
An. Alloc. for Local Tral         28.3     40.6     44.1    47.6       51.4     13.8    226.1
An Alloc. Training Abroad         96.6     63.2     65.6      0.0       0.0      0.0   189.6
An. Alloc. for Seminars          106.4    161.8    163.9    177.1    191.2      51.3    840.7
Sub-Total                         194.6    2SS.8    278.7    224.7    242.6      6S.6   1256.4
F. Specialists Services
Local Specialist (Month)          94.6    168.1   110.2    119.0       6.0       0.6    476.8                                              U'
Int. Specialist (month)           99.5    103.4      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0   262.9
Sub-Total                         194.6   256.4    116.2    119.6       6.6       6.6    679.7
0. An. Alloc for Res.& Eval.           49.7     68.9     71.6      74.4     77.8     20.1   382.0
Total INVVFSTMENT COSTS                 2077.3   2326.8    S71.7    638.9    44S.5    119.4  9673.8
It. RECURRENT COSTS
______________
A. Personnel
Researcher (man-year)             86.4     61.0    56.1      59.6     64.3      17.2    262.8
Planners (men-year)               70.9   102.0   110.2   119.0   128.6    84.6    656.2
Editor (man-year)                 80.1    48.4    48.8    60.6        54.6    14.6   240.2
Documentalist (man-year)          24.6   38.7   3a.8    41.7    46.0    12.1   197.8
Field Officers                   160.6   216.9    284.2   252.9   273.2    78.2  1201.0
Soc. Scientist (man-year)         86.4    61.0    65.1    69.5    84.3    17.2   282.8
Sub-Total                         847.2    60.6   640.0   588.2   629.9    168.6  2769.8
B. An. Travel costs I Allow.          106.4   161.6   168.9   177.1   191.2          51.3   640.7
C. An. Cost for Veh. OAM
4wd                               14.4    20.8    21.5    22.9    24.8          6.4   109.6
Motorcycles                       26.9    38.1    40.4       42.9    46.5    12.0   266.8                                               Of
Sub-Total                          41.3    68.4    81.9    6S.7    69.8    18.4   816.8
0. An. Cost for Equipt.Maint            8.6      4.9      6.2      6.4      6.7       1.5    26.1
E. An Cost for Office Suppl.           28.6    24.6      25.8     27.6     28.8     29.6   166.8                                              o eo
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    521.6    789.6    796.9   865.4    924.9    289.7   4110.6                                             U'
=2=  s==   ==    =-   e                         =    ==
Total                                2599.8   8M66.7   1866.6   1897.3   1876.3   389.1  15184.4
(1> Net *rea=6642, gross area=72Sm2 at 02.968/m2 ineuding site dew.
- Values scaled by 1606.6 4/26/1990 11:19



THE Gabia
Women in Development
Table 119. Strengthen7ng of the Women Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
DeIDSI
Total. Includ7ng Contingencies                Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$                                           USS
9W/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  Total    F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Office Building <1)              128.6  20.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  327.0            189.1  137.9    0.0  827.0
B. Dotation of Equipt a Furn         26.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.2            25.2    8.0    0.0   28.2
C. Transportation
4D for liaison                  1o.s    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1.5             16.5    0.0    0.0   16.5
Motorcycles                     20.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.1            20.1    0.0    0.0   20.1
Sub-Total                        86.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.6            a8.6    0.0    0.0   36.8
D. Materials
Annual Publication               6.4   11.6   12.1   12.6   18.1    3.4   61.2            61.2    0.0    0.0   61.2
An. Alloc. Documentation         3.6    3.7    2.3    2.4    2.5    0.9   16.4            16.4    0.0    0.0   1S.4
Sub-Total                        12.0   15.4   14.4   16.0   16.6    4.3   76.6            76.6    0.0    0.0   76.8
E. Training
An. Alloc. for Local Trai        3.5    6.1    6.5    6.9    6.4    1.7   28.0             0.0   28.0    0.0   26.0
An Alloc. Training Abroad        7.5    7.8    6.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   23.6            23.6    0.0    0.0   23.6
An. Alloc. for Seminars         18.1   18.8   20.3   22.0   23.?    6.4  104.3             0.0  104.8    0.0  104.8
Sub-Total                        24.1   31.7   84.0   27.9   30.1    6.1  165.9            23.6  182.4    0.0  156.9
F. Specialists Servi  a
Local Specialist (Month)        11.7   19.0   13.7   14.8    0.0    0.0   69.2             0.0    69.2    0.0   59.2                    Wn
Int. Specialist (month)         12.8   12.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.2            26.2    0.0    0.0   26.2                     co
-_-_ __    _  _____   _______-_______   _   __ -  -____   ___   __----  -   _ - _--   -  --    -     -------
Sub-Total                        24.1   31.6   13.7   14.8    0.0    0.0   64.3            25.2   69.2    0.0   84.8
0. An. Alloec for Res.h Eval.         6.2    8.6    6.9    9.2    9.6    2.6   44.9            44.9    0.0    0.0   44.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 267.7  286.0   70.9   66.9   66.3   14.6  763.8           421.2  882.4    0.0  763.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel
Researcher (man-year)            4.4    6.8    6.6    7.4    8.0    2.1   35.1             0.0   86.1    0.0   86.1
Planners (an-year)               6.8   12.7   13.7   14.8   15.9    4.3   70.1             0.0   70.1    0.0   70.1
Editor (man-year)                3.7    6.4    5.6    6.8    6.6    1.6   29.8             0.0   29.6    0.0   29.8
Documentalist (man-year)         3.1    4.4    4.8    6.2    5.8    1.6   24.6             0.0   24.5    0.0   24.5
Field Officers                  16.7   28.9   29.1   81.4   88.9    9.1  149.0             0.0  149.0    0.0  149.0
Soc. Scientist (man-year)        4.4    6.8    6.8    7.4    8.0    2.1   85.1             0.0   85.1    0.0   8a.1
Sub-Total                        48.1   62.0   87.0  n7.4   78.2   20.9  848.0              0.0  848.0    0.0  848.6
B. An. Travel costs A Allow.         13.1   18.6   20.3   22.0   28.7    6.4  104.8             0.0  104.3    0.0  104.8
C. An. Cost for Veh. OaM
4wd                              1.8    2.5    2.7    2.8    8.0    0.8   18.6             6.3    7.3    0.0   13.6
Motorcycles                      8.8    4.7    6.0    5.8    5.6    1.6   25.6            11.6   18.8    0.0   25.6                   OQ
Sub-Total                         5.1    7.2    7.7    8.2    8.7    2.8   89.2            18.0   21.1    0.0   89.2                   4s
D. An. Cost for Equipt.Uaint          0.4    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.2    8.2             2.6    0.7    0.0    3.2
E. An Cost for Office Suppl.          2.9    8.1    8.2    8.4    3.5    8.7   19.7            16.2    4.6    0.0   19.7                   o c
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   64.6   91.8   96.9  106.5  114.7   88.5  510.0            85.8  474.2    0.0  510.0
= = = =_ = == == = = =_
Total                               822.4  379.7  169.8  173.4  170.0   48.8  1268.6          46B.9  606.7    0.0  1283.8
(1) Net area=040m2, gross areas=72S2 at D2,956/m2 lncuding site dev.
- Values scaled by 1066.0 4/26/1990 11t19



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 120. Monitoring and evaluation (Women Bureau)
Detailed Cost Table
DalasI
Quantity                         Unit Cost                            Base Costs
90/91 91-94 94/96 96/96 Total     90/91  91-94   94/95  95/98       90/91   91-94  94/95   96/96   Total
I. IIVESTiENT COSTS
A. Vehicles (4WD)                 1    0    0    0        1    130.97   0.00    0.00   0.00        131.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  181.0
B. Training
An. Alloc. for Train. Abr    0     1    0    0    a          0.00   55.41    0.00   o.00        0.0   55.4    0.0    0.0  1B6.2
An. Alloc for Workshops      1    1    1    0        6      31.20   31.20   31.20   0.00       31.2   31.2    31.2    0.0  156.0
Sub-Total                                                                                       31.2   86.6   31.2    0.0  322.2
C. Spec.Serv;ces Int (month)      1    1    0    0    4         90.67   90.67   0.00    0.00        90.7   90.7    0.0    v.0  382.7
D. Research and Evaluation
Baseline survey              0    0    0    1    1           0.00   0.00    0.00  120.90        0.0    0.0    0.0  120.9  120.9
KAP survey                   0    0    0    1    1           0.00    0.00   0.00  120.90        0.0    0.0    0.0  120.9  120.9
Other Surveys                a     1    1    1    5          0.00   30.22   30.22   30.22       0.0   30.2   30.2   30.2  151.1
Sub-Total                                                                                        0.0   30.2   30.2  272.0  392.9
---       ------------ ---- ---
Total IVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                 252.8  207.6   81.4  272.0  1208.8   @
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel
MAE Officer                  1    1    1    0    5         27.04   27.04   27.04    0.00       27.0   27.0   27.0    0.0  135.2
MAE Assistant (year)         2    2    2    0    10        22.88   22.88   22.88    0.00       45.8   45.8   45.8    0.0  228.8
Sub-Total                                                                                       72.8   72.8   72.8    0.0  364.0
B. An. Travel cost and Allow      1    1    1    1    6         29.12   29.12   29.12   29.12       29.1   29.1   29.1   29.1  174.7
C. An. Cost for Veh OhM           1    1    1    1    6         20.62  20.62  26.62  26.62          28.6   28.6   26.6   20.6  159.7
D. An Cost for Office Suppl.      1    1    1    1    6         22.31   22.31   22.31  22.31        22.3   22.3   22.3   22.3  133.8
Tots I RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                160.8  150.8  150.8   78.0  832.3
=   = =
Total                                                                                              403.7  368.4  212.3  360.1  2041.1
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990  11:20
0o '



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 120. Monitoring and evaluation (Women Bureau)
Detatled Cost Table
Delast
Base Costs In US$                        Totals Including Contingencies
90/91  91-94 94/96 96/96  Total       90/91   91/92  92/9a  93/94   94/95   95/96  Total
I. DNVEST1ENT COSTS
A. Vehicles (4WD)                16.2   0.0   0.0   0.6  16.2         160.8     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     6.0  160.8
B. Training
An. Alloe. for Train. Abr   0.0    6.9   6.0   0.0  20.6           5.0   63.2   6S.6   68.2        0.0    0.0  197.0
An. Alloe for Workshops     8.9    8.9   8.9   5.0  19.4          86.4   88.8   41.8   44.0   48.2    0.0  207.9
Sub-Total                     8.9   10.7   8.9   8.5  45.6         85.4  161.4   107.0   112.8   48.2    6.6  464.9
C. Spec.Services Int (month)     11.2  11.2   0.0   0.0  46.5          99.5  108.4   107.4   111.6      0.0    0.0  421.9
0. Research and Evaluation
Baseline survey             0.0    0.0   0.0  15.0  15.0           0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0  160.6  166.5
KAP survey                  0.6    0.0   0.0  16.0  15.0           0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   16.6  166.5
Other Surveys               0.0    8.7   a.7   3.7  18.7           0.0   84.6   36.8   37.2   38.6   40.1  186.2
Sub-Total                    6.6    8.7   8.7  83.7  48.7           0.0   34.5    3S.8   37.2   38.6  361.0  W67.1
-                                                                       -  ----  ------  ------  ______ -------  -------  -------  -- - ---  ---- - -  -- - ---
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              81.4  26.7   7.6  83.7  160.0        286.6  239.8  250.2  261.8   88.9  381.0  1484.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                             0
A. Personnel
MAE Officer                  8.4   3.4   8.4   0.6  16.8          35.7    33.2   38.8   88.7   41.8        0.0  180.2
MAE Assistant (year)        6.7    6.7   6.7   0.0  28.4          62.0   56.1   60.6   66.6   70.7    6.0  304.9
Sub-Total                    9.0    9.0   9.0   6.5  45.2          82.7   89.3   96.4  104.1   112.6    o.6  486.0
B. An. Travel cost and Allow     3.8    3.6   8.6   3.6  21.7          S8.1   35.7    38.6   41.7   46.0    48.2  242.3
C. An. Cost for Veh OtM          8.3    8.3   3.3   3.3  19.8          31.1   33.0   36.0   37.1   39.4   41.7  217.4
0. An Cost for Office Suppl.      2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8  16.6          25.8   27.1    28.4   29.7    81.2    32.6   174.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS               18.7   18.7  18.7   9.7  103.3       172.7  186.1   198.4  212.7   228.1   122.6  1119.4
= == ==  ==  == == - === =  ==
Total                           50.1  44.6  28.8  43.4  253.2         468.2  424.4  448.6  474.8  814.9  483.6  2660.9
- Values scaled by 1600.0 4/26/1996  11:20
0o



THE Cambla
Wo_m In Devolopuent
Table 120. Monitorlag *nd evaluation (Women Bureau)
DetaIled Cost Table
Dalaoi
Totals Including Contingencies            Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$                                        US$
90/91  91/92  92/s9 93/94  94/95  96/96  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
I. DIVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles (4WD)               19.7   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  18.7            16.7    0.0    0.0   18.7
B. Training
An. A"loc. for Train. Abr   0.0   7.8   8.1   8.5   9.a   0.0  24.4            24.4    0.0    0.0   24.4
An. Alloc for Workshops     4.4   4.7   5.1   5.5   6.0   0.0  25.8             0.0   25.8    0.0   25.8
_ ~~~~- -- - -- - - - - -- - -- - - -- -    -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- --
Sub-Total                    4.4  12.6  16.6  14.9   6.9   0.9  60.7            24.4   25.8    o.9   50.2
C. Spec.Servicee Int (month)    12.8  12.8  13.8  16.8   9.9   0..  52.8            52.3    o.o    0.0   52.3
D. Research and Evaluation
Baseline survey             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.9  19.9            19.9    e.o    0.0   19.9
KAP survey                  0.0   0.0   0.0   9.0   0.9  19.9  19.9            19.9    0.0    0.0   19.9
Othor Surveys               0.0   4.8   4.4   4.6   4.8   6.0  28.1            23.1    9.o    o.o   23.1
-- - --  ---- - -- --- - -- --- - ----- ---- - __-  -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- ---
Sub-Total                    0.0   4.3   4.4   4.8   4.8  44.8  62.9            62.9    o.o    o.o   82.9
______   - ---   ------   _ _ _   -   ------     ------ ______  -------     -------     -------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             36.4  29.7  31.9  82.5  10.8  44.8  184.2          168.4   26.8    0.0  184.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A.______ _______ 
A. Personnel
MaU Officer                 8.8   4.1   4.4   4.8   6.2   0.0  22.4             0.0   22.4    0.0   22.4
MAE Assistant (yoar)        6.4   7.0   7.5   8.1   8.8   0.0  87.8             0.0   87.8    9.9   37.8
- - -- - - -- - -- - - --  - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - --   - -- - -- -- -- - -- ---- ----
Sub-Total                   19.3  11.1  12.0  12.9  14.0   0.0  60.2             0.0   60.2    0.0   S9.2
B. An. Travel cost and Allow     4.1   4.4   4.8   5.2   6.6   6.0  39.1             9.9   30.1    0.0   30.1
C. An. Coat for Veh oAM          3.9   4.1   4.3   4.8   4.9   6.2  27.0            12.4   14.6    0.0   27.0
0. An Cost for Office Suppi.     8.2   8.4   8.6   3.7    8.9   4.0  21.7           16.7    4.9    0.0   21.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS              21.4  28.0  24.6  28.4  28.3  15.2  130.9           29.1  109.8    0.0  138.9
== c ~=    _-= ==-_    _ ==== =:=
Total                           56.8  52.6  65.7  58.8  89.1  80.0  828.1          187.5  186.6    0.0  829.1
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:20
i4 
U'
o a



Womn In Development
Table 121. IEC Women ureau
Detoiled Cost Table
Delasl
Quantity                                         Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92/93 9B/94 94/96 96/96 Total       90/91   91/92   92/93   98/94   94/96   95/96
1. DNYESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment nd Furniture              -     -      -     --                    -       -      -         -       -
S. Vehicles (4w)                        2     0      0     0     0     0      2     130.97    0.00    S.00    0.00    *.;S    B.m0
C. Materials
Audio system                      -     -     -      -     -     -     -           -       -        -       -       -        -
Village  Video Systems            -     -     -      -     -     -     -                   -        -       -       -        -
Radio Gambia Studio               -     -     -      -     -     -      -          -       -        -       -       -        -
Radio  ambil Transmittal          -        -      -     -     -         -          -       -        -           -        -
Computerliod Editing Pack         -     -     -      -     -     -     -           -       -        -       -       -
0. Training
Cemunication (month)               6     6     0     9      6     0    12       20.85   20.86    0.90    0.0    o.oo    0.m0
Observatory Visits (Niger          1     0     0      0     0     0     1       41.31    0.00    0.00    *.m0    g.m0    o.00
Local Workshops (2 weeks)          1     1     1      1     0     0     4       34.32   34.82   34.32   34.32    0.90    e:a
E. Specialist Services
IEC Coordinator (month)           12    12    12     0      0     0    B8       95067   90.67   908.6 07 00 0.90    0 g0
Maintenance/repair engin.         12    12     0      9     0     0    24       90.87  9W.67    0.00    0.eo    0.00    o.9o
Short Term spec. (month)           2     2     2      2     2     9    10       90.67   96.67   90.87   90.67   90.67    0.mo
Local Spec. (month) (1)            1     1     1      1     1     0     5       12.48   12.48   12.48   12.48   12.48    6.90
F. Research and Evaluation
Visual Literacy Survey            -     -     -      -     -           -           -       -                -       -        -
Video Survey                      -     -     -      -     -     -     -           -       -        -       -       -        -
Message Development               -     -     -      -     -     -     -           -
Mid-Term Evaluation               -     -     -      -     -     -     -           -       -        -       -       -        -
Health Practices                   1     1     1      0     0     0     8      408.06  498.00  408.00    0.90    6.90    0.00
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. IEC Personnel (men-year)             1     1     1      1     1     0      6      42.64   42.64   42.64   42.64   42.64    0.00
S. An. Travel cost                      I Allow.   1  1  1  1    1     0      5      16.72   16.72   16.72   16.72   18 .n      o.m
C. An. Cost for Veh. CAM                1     1     1      1     1     1     6       27.04   27.04   27.04   27.04   27.04   27.04                 V
0. An. Cost for Equipt OhM              1     1      1     1     1     1     6       19.27   19.27   19.27   19.27   19.27   19.27                 o 
E. Media production                     0     1     1      1     1     9     4        0.00  126.71  126.75  126.75  128.75    0.00 9
<1) Theatre Troupe                                                                                                                                       t
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:21
In



THE 4la
Woen In Development
Table 121. ZEC Wome Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
Dels i
Totals Including Contingencles
SOp9   91/92   92/98   98/94   94/96   95/96   Tot l
2. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipmet and Furniture             0.0    26.8      6.6      6.6     6.6      6.6    26.9
8. Vehicles (41AD)                  861.1     0.0      6.6      6.6     6.6      6.6   801.1
C. Materials
Audio system                     6.6   279.2      6.6      6.0      6.6     0.0   279.2
ViYlago Video Systes          1152.8      6.0     e.g      O.O      0.0     0.0  1162.8
Radio  amba Studio             362.1      0.0     0.0      6.6      6.6     0.0 6   62.1
Radio Gambia Transmittal         0.0  2930.6      6.6      0.0      0.0     6.6  2930.0
Computerized Editing Pack       28.2      6.6      6.O     6.6      6.O     0.0    23.2
Sub-Total                      1627.6  3269.1      0.0      0.0     6.6      0.6  4786.7
D. Training
Comunication (month)           136.0   141.3      6.6      6.6      0.0     0.0   277.2
Observatory Visits (Niger       45.3      6.6     0.0      0.0      6.6     0.0    45.3
Local Workshops (2 weeks)       89.0    42.1    46.5    49.1        6.0     6.0   175.6
Sub-Total                       226.8   193.4    46.5    49.1        0.0     0.0   498.2
E. Specialist Services
IEC Coordinator (month)       1198.9  1240.6  1288.8       0.0      0.0     0.0  8723.2
Maintenance/repair engin.     119S.9  1240.6      0.6      0.6      0.0     6.0  2434.4
Short Term spec. (month)       199.6   208.7   214.6   228.2   281.9        0.0  1075.8
Local Spec. (month) <1>         14.2    15.3    16.6    17.9    19.8        0.0    68.1
Sub-Total                      2601.0  2768.0  1620.2   241.0   261.2        0.0  7816.8
F. Research and Evaluation
V!sual Literacy Survey           0.0    94.2      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    94.2
Video Survey                     0.0   141.8      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   141.8
Message Development              0.0    76.8      0.0      0.0      0.6     0.0    76.8
Mid-Term Evaluation              0.0      0.0   5S.1       0.0     0.0      0.0    60.1
Health Practices               403.0   403.0   403.0       0.0      0.0     6.0  1209.0
Sub-Total                       468.6 714.8   453.1         0.0      0.0     0.0  1670.4
Total INYESTMENT COSTS                6062.9  6886.5  2018.6   290.1   261.2        0.0  14449.6
II. RECURRET COSTS
A. IEC Personnel (man-year)          48.4    62.8    58.6    81.0    65.9        0.6   284.1
B. An. Travel cost A Allow.          21.8    28.0    24.8    28.8    28.9        0.0   124.7
C. An. Cost for Veh. OhM             32.2    34.7    87.6    40.5    48.8    48.9   235.7                                               X
0. An. Cost for Equipt OUI           22.3    23.4    24.5    26.7    26.9    28.2   160.9                                             a  I
E. Media production                  060   146.7   153.8   161.2   189.0         0.0   686.7                                          0 G
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  124.2   280.1   297.1   316.2   384.6    76.1  1428.1
Total                              6177.1  7118.6  281S.8   606.8   586.7    76.1  15876.6



THE Cambia
Women In Development
Table 121. XEC Women Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasl
Totals Including Contingencies                Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Us8                                           US$
90/91   91/92  92/93  93/94  94/9S  9S/98  Total         F.Exch  Local   Taxes  Total
I. INVESTM    COSTS
A. Equipment and Furniture            0.0    3.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.8             3.0    0.4    0.0    3.8
B. Vehicles (41D)                    87.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    O.0   87.4            87.4    0.0    0.0   87.4
C. Materials
Audio system                     6.0   34.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0   34.6            84.6    0.0    0.0   84.6
Village Video Systems          148.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  143.0           143.0    0.0    0.0  143.0
Radio Gambia Studio             48.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   48.7            48.7    0.0    0.0   48.7
Radio Gambia Transmittal         0.0  383.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  a83.5           888.6    0.0    0.0  388.5
Computerized Editing Pack        2.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9             2.9    0.0    0.0    2.9
Sub-Total                       189.6  398.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    O.0  687.7           687.7    0.0    0.0  687.7
D. Training
Communication (month)           16.9   17.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   34.4            34.4    0.0    0.0   34.4
Observatory Visits (Niger        6.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.8             6.8    0.0    0.0    6.6
Local Workshops (2 weeks)        4.8    8.2    6.8    6.1    0.0    0.0   21.8             0.0   21.8    0.0   21.8
Sub-Total                        27.8   22.8    5.6    6.1    0.0    0.0   81.6            40.0   21.8    0.0   61.8
E. Specialist Services
IEC Coordinator (month)        148.1  153.9  169.9    0.0    0.0    0.0  481.9           481.9    0.0    0.0  481.9
Maintenance/repair engin.      148.1  163.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  302.0           802.0    0.0    0.0  302.0
Short Term spec. (month)        24.7   26.7   26.7   27.7   28.8    0.0  133.6           138.6    0.0    0.0  183.5
Local Spec. (month) (1)          1.8    1.9    2.1    2.2    2.4    0.0   10.8             0.0   10.8    0.0   10.3
Sub-Total                       822.7  836.4  188.6   29.9   81.2    0.0  907.7           897.4   10.8    0.0  907.7
F. Reserch and Evaluation
Visual Literacy Survey           0.0   11.7    0.o    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.7            11.7    0.0    0.0   11.7
Video Survey                     0.0   17.5    8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.5            17.5    0.0    0.0    17.6
Message Development              0.0    9.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.0    9.4             9.4    0.0    0.0    9.4
Mid-Term Evaluation              0.0    0.0    6.2    0.0    .8    0.0    6.2             8.2    0.0    0.0    6.2
Healtb Practices                60.0   50.0   50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1S0.0           150.0    0.0    0.0  160.0
Sub,Total                        E9.0   68.6    5.2    0.0     0.0    0.6  194.8          194.8    0.0      0.0  194.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 826.9  848.2  259.6 5    8.0   31.2    0.0  1792.7    178. 3    S2.5        0.9  1792.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. IEC Personnel (man-year)           8.0    6.6    7.0    7.6    8.2    0.6   35.2             0.0   85.2    0.0   36.2                    5
B. An. Travel costbAllow.             2.8    2.8    8.1    8.3   38.         0.0    16.5        0.0   15.6      0.0    16.5
C. An. Cost for Yeh. OhM              4.0    4.8    4.7    5.6    5.4    6.8   29.2             0.0   29.2    0.0   29.2          x
0. An. Cost for Equipt OhM            2.8    2.9    8.0    8.2    3.3    8.6    10.7           14.4    4.8    0.0   18.7                  .a w
E. Media production                   0.0   18.2   19.1   20.0   21.0    0.0   78.8            60.4   17.8    0.0   78.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   16.4   84.8   86.9   89.1   41.6    9.8  176.9            74.9  102.1    0.0  176.9
T oa== -    -==      o =e e          = 7=31                           4      0
Total                               642.8  888.0  297.8   75.1   72.7    9.8  1969.7    1835.1  134.5           0.0  1869.7



THE Cambia
Women In Development
Table 122. IEC Safe Motherhood
Detailed Cost Table
Dalasi
Quantity                        Unit Cost                            8as, Costs
=         ~~_ _        _   =_=         =    ==      = _ _ _=              = == == ==
90/91 91-93 93-9s 95/96 Total     90/91  91-93  93-96  95/9S     99/91  91/92 92/93 93-95  95/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Tape Recorders                   -     -    -      -     -         -       -      -      -        6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0
8. Local Workshop                   -     -     -     -     -         -       -      -      -        0.0   34.3   0.0    0.0    0.0   34.3
C. Spec. Services (month)            0     1    0      0     2      0.00  90.67   0.00   O.W0        0.0  90.7  90.7    0.0    0.0  181.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  6.0  125.0  90.7   0.0    0.0  220.7
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. An Travel Allowance <1)           1     1     1    0      5      8.32   8.32   8.32   0.00        8.3    8.3    8.3    8.3    0.a  41.6
8. Media Production                  O     1     1    I      5      0.00  86.18  85.18  85.18        0.0  85.2   85.2  85.2  85.2  425.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                   8.3   93.5   93.5  93.5  85.2  467.5
Total                                                                                               13.4  218.6  184.2  93.S   86.2 688.2    -
<1> Field Health Educators
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:22
sin



tHE O.mbil
Women in Development
Table 122. ZEC Safe Motherhood
Dotal led Cost Table
Dalsal
Base  Casts In US8                     Totals Including Contingencies
_ _ _ _==                              = =            _         _        _         _
90/91 91/92 92/93 93-96 95/98 Total     90/91  91/92 92/93  98/94  94/96  95/96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Tape Recorders                  0.6   0.0   0.0   9.0   g.0   0.8        6.8   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   6.8
B. Local Workshop                  0.0   4.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.3       0.0  42.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  42.1
C. Spec. Services (month)          0.0  11.2  11.2   0.0   0.0  22.5       0.0  103.4  107.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                0.6  16.5  11.2   0.0   0.0  27.4        6.8  146.6  107.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  265.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. An Travel Allowance (1>         1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   6.2        9.4   10.2   11.0   11.9   12.9    0.0  65.4
B. "edia Production                0.0  10.6  10.8  10.6  10.6  62.8       0.0  98.6  103.3  108.3  113.6  118.8  642.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1.6  11.6  11.6  11.6  10.6  68.0        9.4  1086.8  114.4  120.2  126.4  118.8  698.1
_ =n=               =c=_=   ==_==  == -========
Total                              1.7  27.1  22.8  11.6  10.6  86.4      16.2  254.3  221.8  120.2  126.4  118.8 858.7                         t
_____---_X   _-_                             ---= = =:                _; 5 = =:2=_=== __=====__ --
<1> Field Health Educators                                                                                                                        ch
- Values scaled by 106.0  4/26/1990  11:22
' ow
N-0



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 122. IEC Safe Motherhood
Detailed Cost Table
Oalste
Totals Including Contingencles            Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Us$                                        US$
90/91  91/92 92/93  98/94 S4/96 96/9S Total        F.Exch  Local   Taxes  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Tape Recorders                  0.7   0.0   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7             0.7    0.0    0.0    0.7
B. Local Workshop                  0.0   6.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.2             0.0    6.2    0.0    5.2
C. Spec. Services (month)          0.0  12.8  13.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.2            20.2    0.0    0.0   26.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                0.7  18.0  13.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  82.1            28.9    6.2    0.0   82.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. An Travel Allowance (1>         1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   0.0   6.9             0.0    8.9    0.0    8.9
B. edia Productlon                 0.0  12.2  12.8  13.4  14.1  14.7  87.3            61.8   15.8    0.0   87.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1.2  18.6  14.2  14.9  16.7  14.7  74.2            51.8   22.4    0.0   74.2
~~~ Q~ = ==      =-
Total                              1.9  31.6  27.5  14.9  16.7  14.7  108.3           78.8   27.7    0.0  108.3
(1> Field Health Educators
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990  11:22
tl
o 0
t.n
0c



THE Cambia
Women In Development
Table 128. IEC Skills Development
Deta.led Cost Table
Dales)
Quantity                       Unit Cost                        ease Costs
90/91 91-93 93-96 95/96 Total    90/91  91-98  93-9s6  96/9     90/91  91-93 93-95  96/96 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Audio Cassette Recorders     6o   e0   so   60   8e          0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40     24.2  24.2  24.2  24.2  146.1
8. Training
Observatory Visits          1    0    0    0        1    41.31  0.0 0.00  0.00           41.8   o.0   0.0   0.0  41.3
IEC Workshops               1    1    0    0    3         34.82  34.82   0.60   0.00     U4.3  84.3   0.0   6.0  103.0
Sub-Total                                                                                 76.8  84.8   0.6   0.0  144.3
C. Short Term Spec. (month)      1    1    0    0    8         90.67  90.67   0.00   .00      90.7  90.7   0.0   0.0  272.0
9. Research and evaluation       0     1    1    0    4         0.00  4.03  4.08   0.00        0.0   4.0   4.0   0.6  16.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                          190.6  168.2  20.2  24.2  677.6
-otal  = C= S- =S =
Total                                                                                        190.6  153.2  28.2  24.2  677.6
Unit Costs Scaled by 1060.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  4/26/1990  11:22
o 
0
a*



THE Gambla
Women In Development
Table 128. IEC Skills Development
Detailed Cot4 Table
Dalasi
Base Costs In US8                    Totals Including Contingencies
99/91 91-98 98-95 96/96 T.iot      90/91  91/92  92/93  98/94  94/96  96/96  Total
IL INVESTIIENT COSTS
A. Audio Cassetto Recorders      8.0   8.0   8.0   3.0  18.0       27.8   28.9   30.0   81.2   82.4   83.8  188.9
B. Training
Observatory Visits          6.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.1       46.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  45.3
IEC Workshops               4.3   4.3   0.0   0.0  12.8       89.0   42.1   45.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  126.6
Sub-Total                    9.4   4.8   0.0   0.0  17.9       84.3   42.1   45.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  171.9
C. Short Term Spec. (month)    11.2  11.2   0.0   0.0  33.7        99.6  103.4  107.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  310.3
0. Research and evaluation       0.0   0.6   0.5   0.0   2.0        0.0    4.8    4.8    6.0    6.2    0.0   19.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             23.6  19.0   3.5   3.0  71.6      211.6  178.9  187.6  386.1   37.5   33.6  685.5
--  === === === r===    ==== ==== ===,:,  - _=   ==  =      __=
Total                           23.6  19.0   3.6   3.0  71.6      211.8  178.9  187.6   38.1   37.6   33.6  686.6
- Values scaled by 1000.0  4/26/1995  11:22
0 O.
Io Y
%0



THE Gambia
Wamen In Development
Tablo 123. IEC Ski7ll Development
DOealled Cost Table
Delas)
Totals Including Contingencies          Sreakdomn of Totals Incl.Cont.
USS                                     US,
~==~    ===
80/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 96/96 Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Audio Cassette Recorders     3.4   8.6   8.7   8.9   4.0  4.2  22.8         22.6     0.0     0.0    22.8
S. Training
Observatory Visits         5.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   S.6        6.6     0.o     D.0      5.6
IEC Workshops              4.8   6.2   5.8  9.0   0.0   0.0  16.7         0.9   15.7      0.0    15.7
Sub-Total                  10.6   5.2   6.6  0.0   0.0   0.0  21.3          6.6    15.7     0.0    21.3
C. Short Term Spec. (month)    12.3  12.8  13.3  0.0   0.0   0.0  88.6         38.6     0.0     0.0    38.6
0. Research and evaluation      0.0   0.6  0.8  0.6   0.6   0.0   2.4           2.4     0.0     0.0    2.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            26.3  22.2  23.3  4.6  4.7   4.2  86.0          69.3   16.7      0.0    86.0
=  _  =     =      = =   ==           ____==  ===         -_
Total                          268.3 22.2  23.3   4.6   4.7   4.2  85.0       69.3    15.7      0.0   85.0
- Values scaled by 1000.0  4i/26/1990  11:22
04
0 OD
IIC
"I



THE Gambia
W"omn In Development
Table 124. IEC Agriculture Component
Detalled Cost Table
Dalsas
Quantity                                        Unit Cost
90/91 91/92 92/93 9a/94 94/9S 95/96 Total      90/91   91/92   92/9S   93/94   94/95   95/96
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Cassette VIdeo Audio              2    0      0     0     0    0      2      130.97   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.m         e.g.
8. Vehicles (4W)                     a     2    0      O     0     O      2       0.00  180.97   0.00    0.0       0.96    9.00
C. Training
Observatory Visits              1    O      O     O     0     0     1      40.30   0.00   0.00    0.00          0.00    9.ee
Local Workshop                  0     1    0      1    0      0     2       0.00   16.64    0.00   16.64    0.00    0.90
D. Spec.Services
Short Term (month)              1     1     1     0     0     9     3       9s.67   90.67   90.67    g.00   0.00    9.90
Local Spec. (month)             1     1     1     1     1     1     8       18.72   18.72   18.72   18.72   18.72   18.72
E. Research and Evaluation (1>       O     1     1     1     1     0     4       O.00    4.03   4.03    4.03    4.03    0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. An. Travel Allowance              1     1    1      1     1    0      5       33.26   33.28   33.28   33.28   33.29    0.00
S. An. Equipt OhM                    0     1     1     1     1     1     5       0.00    8.11    8.11    8.11    8.11    8.11
C. "edia Production                  0     1     1     1     1    O      4       0.00  188.69  188.69  168.60 188.60    0.00
D. An. Cc,t for Veh. OhM             9     1     1     1     1     1      5      9.00   16.38   16.38   18.38   16.38   16.38
(1> Qualitative and message development
Unit Costs Scaled by 1009.0 4/28/1990 11:22
0 0
o 



THE Gambia
Woen In Developmest
Table 124. IEC Agriculture Component
Detailed Cost Table
Dclosi
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Inceluding Contingeoncies                                     tSS
90/91   91/92   92/9a   93/94   94/95   96/98  Total      90/91  91/92  92/98  93/94  94/96 96/98 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Cassette Video Audio            801.1     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0  361.1        37.4   0.0    0.0    0.6    g.0   0.e  87.4
8. Vehicles (4WD)                    0.0  812.9    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0  812.9         0.0  88.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   e.e   88.8
C. Training
Observatory Visits             44.2     0.0     e.0     0.*      g.0 e    .0   44.2        6.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.5
Local Wobkshop                  0.0   20.4      6.0   28.8      0.0     0.0   44.2         0.0   2.5    0.0    3.0   0.0    0.0    8.5
Sub-Total                       44.2   20.4      0.0    28.8     0.0     0.0   88.4         5.6    2.6    0.0    8.0    0.0    0.0   11.0
D. Spec.Services
Short Term (month)             99.S  103.4   63.7       0.0     0.0     0.0   256.8       12.8  12.8   6.7    0.0   0.0    0.0   81.8
Local Spec. (month)            21.3   23.0   24.8   26.8   28.9   31.0  166.7              2.6    2.8    3.1    8.3    3.6    3.8   19.3
Sub-Total                      120.8  126.3   78.5   26.8   28.9   81.0  412.3             15.0  16.7    9.7    3.8    8.6    8.e   61.2
E. R6esearch and Evaluation (1>      0.0     4.8     4.8     6.0     5.2     0.0    19.6        0.0   0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.0    2.4
-------~ ~~--------       ---   ----------                                                    ---
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                468.1   484.2   83.8    55.6   84.1    81.0  1134.2         57.8   67.6   10.3   6.9    4.2    3.8  140.7   -
U1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. An. Travel Allowance             87.8   40.8    44.1    47.6    51.4      0.0   221.7        4.7    5.1    5.S    5.9    6.4   0.0   27.6
B. An. Equipt DAM                    0.0    9.8    10.3    10.8    11.8    11.9    64.1         0.0    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.5    6.7
C.  "edia Production                 0.0   218.4   228.8   239.8   261.5     0.0  938.6         0.0   27..   28.4   29.8   31.2    0.0  116.4
D. An. Cost for Veh. o08             0.0   20.3    21.6    22.9    24.3    25.6   114.8         0.0   ?.e    2.7    2.8    3.0    3.2   14.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  87.8   289.3  384.8   321.1   838.5    87.5  1329.0         4.7   85.9   37.8   39.8   42.0    4.7  164.9
~=== ==== == ~= -=: ==== == = _-  
Total                             603.9  765.5  388.0  376.7  872.0   38.6 2463.2              62.5   93.5  48.1   46.7  46.2    8.5  305.6
(1> Qualitative and message development
- Valuoe scaled by 100.0 4/26/1990 11:23
t.n w
o CO
'n
D0



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 125. Project Preparation Facility
Detalled Cost Table
Dalas1
Quantity      Unit Cost            Base Costs               Base Costs in US8        Totals Including Continge cies
=_  2= == 
90-98 Total       90-98       90/91   91-96   Total       90/91   91-98   Total         90/91     91-96      Total
IL INYESTMENT COSTS
A. Project Prep. Facility (1>       -      -           -      9495.7    060  9495.7       1178.1      0.0  1178.1       9495.7       090    9495.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           9495.7      9.e  9495.7     1178.1      0.0  1178.1       9495.7        0.0    9496.7
e====   =              --   =---  2--C             == === __',2===  _=
Total                                                         949S.7      0.0  9496.7     1178.1   060  1178.1          9495.7        0.0    9495.7
(1> First advance  JU8583,9; Second advance =US3840,000
Unit Costs Sealed by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  4/28/1998  11:28
0 5
00f
%0w



THE Gambia
Woen tn Development
Table 125. Project Preparation Facility
Detailed Cost Table
Dales$
Totals Including Contingencies    Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.               IDA              Kingdom of Mornat
US8                               US8                    Financing in US$        Financing In US8
90/91     91-96    Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes  Total       90/91   91-9B  Total        90-96    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Project Prep. Facility (1>      1178.1       0.0   1178.1       702.0  476.1      0.0  1178.1    1178.1     0.0  1178.1          0.0     0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                1178.1       0.0   1178.1       702.0  478.1      0.0  1178.1     1178.1    0.0  1178.1         0.0      0.0
Total                              1178.1       0.0   1178.1       702.0  478.1      0.0  1178.1    1178.1    0.0  1178.1          0.0      0.0
(1> First advance =US530,000; Second advance --USS840,000
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:23
o co
Fh



THE Gambia
Women In Development
Table 126. The Fund
Detailed Cost Table
Dalas)
Quantity           Unit Cost             Base Costs            Base Cost, In USS
90-96 95/96 Total      90-96   95/90      90-95   96/96   Total    90-95  96/96  Total
-~----           ----    --- -----                             ------------ 
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Fund                         1    0      5     913.W0   0.o0       818.0    0.0  4065.0    100.9   0.0  604.3
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS                                                   818.0    0.0  4065.0    100.9   0.0  604.3
_  _ _==== =                 _   =  ===
Total                                                                 818.0    0.0  4065.0    100.9   0.0  604.3
<1) Funds to be provided to NGOs for projects on a matching fund basis
Unit Costs Scaled by 1900.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/28/1990 11:23
00
Ul



THE Cambia
Women in Development
Table 126. The Fund
Detailed Cost Table
Dalias
Totals Including Contngencile       Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                   US8                                 US$
0-95      95/9B     Total          9-96     96/96      Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Fund                          813.0        0.0    4086.0        166.9        0.0     604.3       250.0   264.8     0.0   S04.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              818.0        0.6    4086.6         100.9       0.0     604.3       250.0   264.3     0.0   804.3
_=   = :__== =  == ==  =
Total                            813.0       0.0    4066.0         100.9        0.0     S04.3       250.0   264.3     0.0   504.3
<1> Funds to be provided to NCOs for projects on a matching fund basis
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/26/1990 11:23
0%
os
Ia 
U'A
%O
O 



TIMETABLE OF ACTIVIES
1. Extension Servicoe for Woomons Field Crope
(Agricultural component)
Year 0   Yee 1   Yr 2   Year    Year4   Year 
Sesoitization camplgn                                                     x
(0 divisional workshops)
Flool ization of T & V schedules for womens
production activities                                                     x
Program planning / evaluation workshops                                   x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
(6 dlvislonal workshop / messon)
Report on progrm planning/evaluatlon workshop                       x  x     x  x      x  x     x  x     x  K
Extension manuals
Cooperation agreement between participating                                                                                            4
agencies (DAS, DA   FNOM                              x
Pubiications
RIce manual                                                         x
Upland crops manuals                                                         x
Updating of manuals                                                          x         x        x        x
National oetension workshop                                               x         x        x        x        x
Block-demonstration proram with FAO and OCU
Devlopment and Implementation                                       x  x     x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x
Development of an lncentive system VEW.                          X
Estblishment of a spora  pert revolving fund                              x
Regional study tours                                                               x         x        x        x K
Evaluation of outreach activities (in cooperation                                                                              o  1
with the MU unit of the Womn's Bureau)
Design of evaluation activities                                              x
1mplementation of study                                                         x
1) DS a Dry sason: December thru May
IS a Web season: June thru November



2. Extension Survicee for Women's Horticulture
(Agricultural Component)
Year 0   Year I  Year 2  Year B   Year 4   Year 6
DS  VS   DS IS   DS  VS   DS VS   DS  IS
Supervisor training abroad
Preparstion for let supervisor                             x
Training of first supervisor                                        x  x      x  x
Preparatlon for 2nd supervisor                                                x
Training of second supervisor                                                          x  x     x X
Integrated horticultural development workshop
For Subject Matter Specialists and Training Officers                x
For VEWs of Wstern Division                                         x
Development of training programs and materials for
extension staff
Cooperation agreeesnt with OAR, FAO                        x
Development of content                                     x        x
Horticultural extension manual                                                                                                              co
Cooperstion agreement with DAR, FAO                                 x
Development of contont and publication                              x  x
Updating of manual                                                              x         x        x         x
Horticultural demonstratlon, and triels
Program development, evaluation and updating in
cooperation with DAR and FNU                               x           x        x        x         x         x
Program implementation                                              x        x         x        x         x
Development of a Market Information System                               x  x
Improving office facilities                                              x x
o 
F'h
cr3
0n



3. Extension Services for Women's Livestoek Production
(Agricultural Component)
Year O   Year I  Yoer 2   Year 3   Yeor 4   Year 6
Dovelopment of model delivery systems for basic
health care and improved husbandry packages
Cooperation agr_eemt with ITC and UNDP                        x
Extension of pilot research programs                          x        x
Pilot project evaluation and report                                     x
Replication fo model delivery systems
Establishment of a revolving drug fund                                 x
System extension in WID project villages                                x        x
System extension natlowide                                                       x        x        x        x
x        x        x        x
Training of livestock assistent1
Development of traintng programs and
materials for extension staff                              x        x                                                               -
Divistonal seminars                                                    x         x        x        x        x
Livestock survey design, implementation,
*nd analysis                                                        x         x        x        x        x
Publication of survey reports                                          x         x        x        x        x
Livestock extension manual
Doelopmet of content and publication                                   x
Updating of manual                                                               x        x        x        x
Laboratory support (material proevision)                                    x
External Training
Regional study tour                                                    x
Diploan courose
Start application procedures                             x
Training                                                          x
oIt



4. Private Sector Input Distribution
(Agricultural Component)
Year O   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 6
DS  Ws   DS  Ws   DS  Ws   DS  WS   DS  Ws
Conaultancy on sub-componont detai 3s                             x
Female Input distrtbution ne"twork
Identification of 10 additional retailers                    x
Zdntitfication of whole-saler(s)                             x
Notwork extension by 6 additional retailers                                              x
Technical Sales Agents (TSA)
Identification of 18 TSA                                     x
TSA induction training                                                x
Pre-season in sorvice tralning                                        x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
Financial and material support for TSA                                x  x      x  x
Business Advisory Service
Annual Sales Promoton Meetings                                        x         x        x        x         x                            o
Semi-annual post-season stock control                                 x  x     x  x      x  x     x  x      x  x
Block demonstrations (horticulture and wset seoon crops)
Cooperat.on agreement with DAS (HEP)                         x
Implmentation                                                         x  x     x  x      x  x      x  x     x  x
Internal Evaluation (MUE-unit, Womn's Bureau)                                           x
Extorna  evoaluation                                                                          x
S. Women's Cooperative Groups
(Agricultural Component)
Year O   Year I   Yoar 2   Yar J   Yoer 4   Year C
Women's crodit officers
Identification and induction training                                    x
Extension of women"s credit officers                                               x        x        x         x
and refresher training
Provision of Inputs to women's farmer groups                                  x         x        x        I         x K
J.
_e
"I



8. Food storae, Preservation, and Nutrition Extension
(Agricultural Component)
Year 0   Yoar 1   Yoar 2  Year 3   Year 4   Yoar S
Pilot studies
Completion and evaluation                                     x
Publication of reports                                                 x
Office establishment 
Institutlonal linkag with an established appropriate
technology Institute
Cooperation agrteent                                          x
Short-term Technical Assistance                                        x        x
Exchangs program                                                                x         x        x        x
FNU staff university tralning abroad
lIt student                                                                     x        x
2nd student                                                                                                                            co
Evaluation and design of prloritized workplan
for years 2-5 of project                                                    x
Llbrary establishment
Development of training materials for extension manuals
(in collaboration with PAS)                                   x        x
Awarness seminars for extension agents                                      x
Food preparation program
Testing of recipes                                            x        x
Publication of recipe book                                             x
Food production laboratory establishmsnt                               x
Cooking campaign                                                                x        x         x        x
Seasonal malnutrition program
Collaboration agreement with Nutrition Unit (McH)                      x
Program implementation                                                          x        K         K        K
Development of new household technologies and fovJ
processing strategies                                                                                                            CI
Collaboration agrement with Agricultural
Engineering Unit (AEU)                                            x
Program Implementation                                                          x        x         x        x               n



7.  sanaogemnt of Post  arveset Equipmnt
(Agrlcultural Component)
Year O   Year I  Year 2  Year 3   Yoar 4   Year C
Preparation of 2-year workplan proposal by NGO                     x
2-year contract with WID-prejoet                                   x
Program evaluation by the 7E of the Women'                                           x
3-yeor  contract ron el upon evaluatton                                              x
Implementation of progrm  in 40 villaog   / rys                             K        x        x        x
SnaII-scale dehullor identification                                         x        x
S. Savings Mobilization
(Agricultural Component)                                                                    o
Your 0   Year I  Year 2  Year 3   Yoar 4   Year S
Preparation of 5-year workplan proposal by GOWC                     x
2-year contract wlth WID-project                                    x
External evaluation                                                                   x
8-year contract renewal upon evaluation                                               x
Program  lmplomentatton                                                               x       x        x        x
Development of improved access to savinos fecilIties                   x
Training soinars
Material development and updating                                 x        x        x        x        x
Implneontation                                                   x        x        x         x        x
Rural savings campaign                                                 x        x        x        x        x
4'-
0I



9. Agricultural Coordinator
(Agricultural Component)
Year 0   Year I   Year 2   Year 8   Year 4   Year 6
DS  WS   DS  WS   DS  Ws   DS  WS   DS  is
Offile getablishment                                              x
UDI-nagoemnt training for component coordinator                   x        x         x        x        x         x
Design operational syoem. and reporting forms                     x
Oversee procurement process                                       I        x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
OversO design of annual workplans
and budgete a implementing agoncieo                               x        x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
Monitor componont performance                                                                                                                  co
Revlew of status reports                                              x  x     x  x      x  x     x  x      x  x
Olvisional meetins (quarterly)                                        x  x     x  x      x  x     x  x      x  x
Coordinate semi-annual meeting of the Agricultural
Component Advlsory Commttee (ACAC)                                x        K  x      K  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
Prepere quarterly progress reports                                x        x  x      x  x     x  x     x  x      x  x
Prepare annual financial report                                            x         x        x        x         x
II|



10. General Strengthening of the Bureau
(Component for Strengthening of the Wom.n's 8ureau)
Year 6   Year 1  Yeer 2   Year a   Yer 4   Year 6
Firming up of researeh program                                     x
Headquarter. Building:
-architectural design preparation
of tender documents                                          x
-calling for bids                                                   x
-bid evaluatlon end contract awards                                 x
-construction supervision                                           x        x
-procuroeent of furniture and equipment                                      x
Procureonnt of vehicle                                                   x
Appointment of social scientist and documenta llt                        x
Reappointenft, or neo appointment.
of resercher, planners, editors and field officers                  x
Training abroad                                                          x        x         x
In-servieo training                                                  x        x        x         x        x                            oo
Organization of seminare and workshops                               x        x        x         x        x
Technical assistance -international                                      x        x
Toehnicl assistance -local                                               x        x         x        x
Assosment of postbility of merging
Research and MAE Unlt.                                                                      x
10
as 



11. lonitorlng end Evelatilon
(componet for the strengthening of the Womens 'a Ou)
Year a  Yer I    oYr 2  Yar 3  Yeor 4  Year 
Est.blhm.t of MM Unit:                                        I
Reruitment of Offiewr and  selstnts                            a
EstabliAmsnt of UK Comtto                                      s
MontIly metins of Comitte                                 x
lurly meltnw of Comittee                                           x                x  
FPiealzltoat of montwolno indicator                            a
Tebchcal Asseisoiw  for survey                                                   a       x 
FPili:etlen of qtionetare. 
Selection of willn. for srvey 
necr.itment, of  _mmertor. and clorke                                                                                                  U 
Bowl i, surve                                                  x s 
KAP asrve
UK W4rk bope                                                                x                 x   K
Floinlitton of effect.en  i Impact tndecatore                  K
Prepatie. of quaterly progre  rport                                     a       s        X          
Project servlce mite g survey                                           x       x        x        x
Midterm review 
bs:ema4-.1 (sgp4)
I!
0 1



SUFE   ED
TINETASLE OF ACTIVMTIES
1. Risk Idsntitcattion and Management.
YEAR 0   YEAR I  YEAR 2  YEAR S   YEAR 4   YEAR 6   YEAR S
Solect consultant to design
TBA evaluation survoy.                                  x
Conduct Evaluation Survey.                              X
Conduct TMA Evaluation Workshop.                                  X
Incorpors.'e TM Evaluation Findings
Into TM Training progrm.                                          X                                                                       oo
Design In-servie Curriecula.                                      X
Develop and Test Proceduroe
for Risk Identification.                                          X
Produce and Distribute NMm Risk ID Forms.                         X
Retrain trained TBA, CHN, trekking
teams and train untrained TA.                                              X        X        X
Evaluate Impact of now tratiing.                                                                      x
Solect villages for kabilo pilot project.                         X
Train pilot kabilos.                                                       x
Evaluate pilot projoct and decide                                                   x
whether to oxpand.                                                                                                             o5
If oxperimnt positive, integrate kabilo I
program Into PHC procedures through                                                          x                                 O wS
In-service Training of PHK workers.                                                                                            0 1
a.-



Risk Identitfication and Manageomnt Cont'd
YEAR a   YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEAR B  YEAR 4   YEAR 6  YEAR 6
Upgrade n5 trekking stations.
Procur equipment,
Contract constructlon                                        X
Upgrade stations                                                               X        x         x
Build 10 villag bhalth poets.
Identity VIIlage.                                            x
Prepare tender docuents, advertise                           X
received bids.
Evaluate bids, select contractors.                                    x
Build village posts.                                                  x        x
2.  Local Evacuation and Telecomunleatione.
YEARS   YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3  YEAR 4   YEAR 6  YEAR 6
Provide hores and cart ambulances
to 21 PHC vIllages.
identify and sensitize village
communities.                                                 X
Prepare  pecification for model cart.                        X
Preparo tenders evaluate bide and
award contracts.                                             %
Construct 21 carts.                                          X
Select 21 driver and horse care                              X
takers.
Train horse caretaker and                                    X
VCD member.-
Purchase horses in reglonal markets.                              X                                                              0  I



Local Eveauation and Toleeomiunications Cont'd.
YEAR O   YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   YEAR 6
Evaluato use of  _m lances and
decide whether to continue.                                                         x
Introduce addittonal 84 ambulanceo
(it evaluation positive).                                                           X        X
Contact GAMTEL ro Radio Comurnication
Program in Upper Rivor Division.                         X
Prepare with GAkTEL assistonce
tender document for radio equipment
and solar powor moduleo for 4 bas
stations and 19 outstation..                                      X                                                                        a-
Advortils, receive bids.                                                   X                 X 
Select supplier.                                                           X
Install sets.                                                              X        X
Monitor and evaluat esystem.                                                                          x
o ,
Fh



3. Woen's Nutrition.
YEAR O   YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 8   YEAR 4   YEAR 6  YEAR a
Orgnie runra l animation workshop
for Health Education Unit (HEU) staff                        X
In-servic. training of ISP
comunity level extension
workers/AEW, CON, COAs, NOOs)
In nutrition oducation techniques                            X        X        X        X        X        X
Carry out nutrition dewonstratione                                         X        X        X        X
Distribut micro-nutrients                                         X        X        X        X        X         X
Condct survoys
Household foodshel I survey (2 seasons)                           X        X                                                                Go
Market food survey (2 season)                                     X        X
Food prectics and taboos                                                   X
Nutritional impact of CRS phase ovor                                                         X
Final evaluation of nutrition program                                                                 X
IW n
b-



4. Family Planning.
YEAR 9   YEAR 1   YEAR 2  YEAR 3  YEAR 4   YEAR 5   YEAR 6
Conduct Contraceptive Provalence Survey                 X
Evaluate Survoy Findings                                         X
Organize Implementation planning
workshop                                                    X
Design incentive system for non PHC
areas and oetablish echanism
for adequate supply                                         X
Identtty areas for sO new CUD. aItos
(40 by MHLSW and 20 by GFPA)                                X
Select TBAs and Community Workers                                                                                                         0
to act en CBD agent.                                        X
Train 8 CHN. to supervise
CID agent                                                   X        X
Train extension workers for FP motivation
In newly established CBD sites                              X        X        X        X
1 day refrshoer training for CBD agents,
extension workers every O months                                     X        X        X        X        X
Set up regional Health Teams with CDAs,
(WBFOs, AEWs and CNN. to conduct
comunity health education                                   X
Train teams In participatory health
education techniques                                        X
On



Family Planning (continued)
YEAR    YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR S   YEAR 4   YEAR    YEAR 3
Health Education Tea conduct
co_mmmity education activities                              X        X       X        X        X        X
Conduct ono-ay meeting ovory four
months for follow-up and coordination                       X        X       X        X        X        X
Conduct survey on curret provision
of contraceptive* in private sector                         X
Devlop and dissminate puidelim for
contraceptive distribution in privoe sector                         X
- meeti    with pharmiste,
drugtor. owrs and NOO                                              X                                                               0
Tranmi  of drug dispeno, tin motivation
referral Identification side effeot                                 X        X
"old annual one-day meetings with
pharmacists drug disp emore                                                           X        X K
Wafts   (sp)
n-



THE CAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
____________________
Disburem-nt                                                            . -
--- --------------------------.          Country
IDA Fiscal years  By Quarter       Cumulative      Project  All Sector
and Quarters      (US$ Million)    (USM qi#lion)      (1)        (#)                                               _            7
l991       1               0.0            0.9         61         61
2              0.7             0.7       10%         3X        oo 
a 6.7                          1.4       2           61
4              0.7             2.1      a36          91            _
1992       1               0.7            2.8        461        13_
2              6.4             3.2       465         175       0
a              0.4            8.6         St1       21%        >
4               0.4           4.0        s7X        26%          '
1993        1              6.4            4.4        683        321          0.3 
2              6.2            4.7        67X        32X
3              6.2            4.9        76X        48X
4               0.2            5.1       741        481
1994       1               0.2            C.4        77X        521
2               0.2           6.6       8se         S6X
a               0.2           S.8        8a         ea%"  ,,,,,,,,,e,,,           r          
4              0.1            6.0        861         4 645           n      1       31    133       1591    an 
199S       1               0.1            6.1        87?        761                                       Fiscal Year
2              0.1            6.2        89X        76X
a              6.1            6.4        91X        865                         Assuming credit effectiveness during
4               6.2           e6.        94X        841                               the first quarter of FY91.
1996        1              6.2            6.7        961        875                         X - Regional Sector Profile
2              0.1            6.8        91         960%                         Q - Estimated Project Disbursement Profile
a              6.1            8.9        98g        93x
4               0.1           6.9        991        98X
1997        1              6.1            7.0       16sx        98X
2                                                  1665
8:\iPRO'WID2.U(1 (BA)



- 193 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 3
THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   Bank Supervision Input                    review will be held in
December 1992.
The staff input indicated in
the table below is in                (c)  The Project Management Unit
addition to the regular                  will be responsible for
supervision needs for the                 coordinating arrangements for
review of progress reports,               IDA supervision missions, and
procurement and disbursement              for providing information
actions, correspondence, etc.             required by missions.
(estimated to require four               Missions will normally be
staff-weeks per year during               accompanied by the Project
the project implementation               Manager or her deputy.
period).
(d) Mission briefing meetings on
2.   Borrower's Contribution to                arrival, and wrap-up meetings
Supervision                              will normally be chaired by
the Permanent Secretary,
(a)  Progress Reports are to be                Office of the President. with
submitted semi-annually, in               the participation of other
April and October of each                 members of the PCC and
year; the Project Management              representatives of the
Unit (PMU) will coordinate                project agencies.
report preparation by the
various agencies.
(b) Project Coordination
monitoring and evaluation
will be the responsibility of
the PMU, under the overall
guidance of the Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC).
During the first twelve
months of the project, the
PCC will meet monthly to
ensure adequate supervision.
Joint IDA-Government review
meetings, with the
participation of the various
project agencies, will be
held normally in April of
each year. These meetings
will be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, Office
of the President, who is also
Chairman of the PCC. A
formal mid-term project



- 194 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 3
Bank Supervision InPut into Key Activities
Approx.        Activity                  Expected              Staff Input
Dates                                    Skill                 (Staff-Weeks)
(month/year)                            Requirements
7/90           Project launch           - Project officer            6
workshop, and            - Agticulture
first supervision       - Procurement
mission to review        - Monitoring &
project start up         Evaluation.
and organizational
and monitoring
arrangements.
11/12/90       Supervision              - Project officer            10
Mission.                 - Agriculture
- Health
- Skills Development
- IEC
4/91           Joint Progress           - Project officer            8
Review (First            - Agriculture
Annual Review of         - Health
project                  - Skills Development
implementation).
7/91           Supervision              Agriculture                  3
mission.
11/12191       Supervision              - Project officer            10
Mission.                 - Agriculture
- Health
- Skills Development
- IEC
4/92           Joint Progress           - Project officer            8
Review (Second           - Agriculture
Annual Review of         - Health
project                  - Skills Development
implementation).
11/12/92       Mid-term Project         - Project officer            10
Review.                  - Agriculture
- Health
- Skills Development
- IEC



- 195 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 3 of 3
4/93           Joint Progress           - Project officer            8
Review (Third            - Agriculture
Annual Review)           - Health
- Skills Development
1112193        SupervisiVHon            - Project officer            10
Mission.                 - Agriculture
- Health
- Skills Development
- IEC
1994           Two missions per
year (as in 1993)
4195           (as in 1993)
11/12/95       Completion mission
(as in 1993)
Note: In addition, brief supervision missions would be mounted at short
notice by the World Bank Resident Mission in Dakar.



IBRD 22203
3' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b                                           MAURITAN IA
THE               ~~~~MALI
S      E       N       E      G       A       L                                       ,                       GAMBIAl              ' ML
r \. _ SlSAIS  -f   G  U I N  A r
AA 
S'
/I IBW.I-                                                                                          sfi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IERAJNT
| iA v-< *& /Ka tF K i                                                                                                       THE GAMBIA   |
Gva,9l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ So <I oroir *                                                                                     /             Riv                                 e          r         s         ,.,
5~~~~~~~..d-y -&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.--
Ke~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rs ,                                        4 . _...J.._...___ ._ .J                                     1\D TksOnb
S-"s                                                                                                                             P,i-,yEa  od (p.o30 JOd^){
irwbeiv ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Divs Bounr+wrtes 
-0-nRS 0   v    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 061lgbol                                   I         ~         4                      N0' ~ '                               ,-~od'                ~        .
E           ralLr~~~~s o   ro         30          3                                                      __ltroonlDud is_
*.r  X         ,r\ SN.U   P N               E      G   ,'!~Us~k )    ' AA  L
AozrrwwAo  Irfzxr"  AV.' AZF   2 D,Y19R



