Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17664
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2141-GM)
April 10, 1998
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasi
At the time of appraisal in March 1990
US$ 1.00 = D8.1
At the time of closing in December 1996
US$ 1.00 = D9.89
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m     =1.09yd
1 sq. m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                                        African Development Bank
CD                                         Central Division
DOSH                                       Department of State for Health
DSA                                        Department of State for Agriculture
DSLG                                       Department of State for Local Government
GWFA                                       Gambia Women's Finance Association
ICC                                        Implementation Coordinating Committee
ICR                                        Implementation Completion Report
IDA                                        International Development Agency
IEC                                        Information, Education, and Communication
NBD                                        North Bank Division
NGO                                        Non-governmental Organization
OS                                         Operations Support
PCC                                        Project Coordinating Committee
SA                                         Special Account
SOE                                        Statement of Expense
TANGO                                      NGO Umbrella Organization
UNDP                                       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                                     United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                                      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNIFEM                                     United Nations Development Fund for Women
URD                                        Upper River Division
WID                                        Women in Development
WWB                                        Women's World Banking
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director               Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manger                  Nicholas Burnett
Staff Member                   Rosemary Bellew



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2141-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                          4
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT              6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                     8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                           8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                      10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                     11
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                                          II
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                       12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                    14
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments                                             15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits                                         16
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                                  17
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual              18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation                          19
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation                               22
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project                                        22
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                      22
Table 8B: Project Financing                                                  23
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                                        23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                          24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                      26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                       26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                           27
APPENDICES
A.    Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower's Contribution to ICR
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
(Cr. 2141)
PREFACE
This is the implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Women in
Development Project in The Gambia, for which Credit 2141 in the amount of SDR 5.4
million (US$7.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 29, 1990 and made effective
on December 27, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing
date of December 30, 1996. At the time of closing, the credit was disbursed at 94%. A
balance of about SDR 0.324 million will be cancelled. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Government, the Kingdom of Norway, the African Development Bank
(ADB), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), United Nations Development
Fund for Women (UNIFEM), and United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA).
The ICR was prepared by Rosemary Bellew (Task Manager, AFTH2) and Susan
Gannon (Consultant) with input from the former Task Manager Bruna Vitagliano and
from Benedicte Ingstad, a consultant financed by the Government of Norway who was
one of the most permanent members of the WID team throughout the years. It was
reviewed by Mr. Nicholas Burnett, Sector Manager, and Mr. Mahmood Ayub, the
Country Director for The Gambia.
The ICR is based on information gathered during the final supervision mission
(December 1-12, 1997) and on historical records. The Borrower contributed to its
preparation by providing comments on the draft ICR prepared during the final
supervision mission, and by preparing its own evaluation which is in Appendix B. The
ICR was sent to the Borrower for comments in January 1998. Comments were again
requested in March 1998. No comments were received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
(Cr. 2141-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    Bank's Role in the Country and in the Sector. IDA's strategy in The Gambia
has been to support three main objectives: (a) establish a macroeconomic and private
sector environment conducive to economic growth,(b) rehabilitate and develop
infrastructure, and (c) improve basic social services, particularly for women and the poor.
2.    Owing to adverse political developments in 1994 and the subsequent withdrawal
of key donors from The Gambia, IDA has not made any new commitments. With the
return to constitutional government by January 1997, most key development partners
returned to The Gambia. IDA's first operation in four years is expected to be presented to
the Board on March 31, 1998. As of December 31, 1997, when the WID project closed,
the portfolio contained four projects -- Second Education Sector Project (closing in
December 1998), Agricultural Services, Public Works and Capacity Building, and
Environment Management Capacity Building, compared to a portfolio -of nine projects in
1994. Consultations with Gambian authorities for a Country Portfolio Performance
Review and a Country Assistance Strategy took place in January 1998. The results are
being used to formulate IDA's future support to the country.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were to: (i) improve women's
productivity and income-earning potential, (ii) improve women's welfare and status, (iii)
strengthen government institutions to enable them to better integrate women's issues in
their work, and (iv) contribute to bringing about a change in Gambian society's
perception of the role of women.
4.    Project Description and Components. The Agriculture component focused on
increasing women's productivity and income. The Safe Motherhood and Family
Planning component was designed largely to test different ways to reduce maternal
mortality and raise the contraceptive prevalence rate which was estimated at 6% at
appraisal. The Information, Education, and Communication component's objectives
were to create awareness among policy makers of the needs and status of women, and
provide communication support to field activities. The Skills Development component
focused on increasing and diversifying women's income-earning potential through



ii
literacy, management and skills training, and small credit for non-agricultural goods.
Institutional development was a cross-cutting objective.
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. With the exception of the
Agriculture component, which specified targets to be achieved in terms of the percentage
of women reached by extension services, covenants included the standard ones pertaining
to audits and financial management and others pertaining to project staffing.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Project objectives were derived from a
baseline survey of women's status and needs, and other preparation studies. They
addressed the main needs identified, that is increased income and productivity, better
maternal and child care, and better access to productive resources, education, and
training.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
7.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The objectives of the
Agriculture component were substantially achieved in most areas. It is somewhat more
difficult to assess achievement of the objectives of the Safe Motherhood and Family
Planning component. Nevertheless, certain conclusions can be drawn about their
effectiveness. Women interviewed during a Supervision Mission claimed that the Baby
Friendly Initiative was an effective strategy to improve maternal and child nutrition,
particularly by changing women's attitudes and behavior regarding breast feeding. The
IEC objective of creating awareness of women's needs and concerns was substantially
achieved. It is still too early to assess achievement of the Skills Development objectives,
but the final results are likely to show a mixed picture. The credit component has only
been in operation for one year, and is expected to partially achieve its objectives.
Institutional strengthening objectives were substantially achieved.
8.    Summary of Costs. Total project costs were estimated at US $ 15.1 million at
the time of appraisal with IDA financing about 50% of total costs. VeHicles, training,
consultants and operating costs accounted for 60% of project costs at the time of appraisal
and for about 70% of actual expenditure at the end of the project. The cost of civil works
was underestimated by about 50%, resulting in a change of strategy whereby one third of
the planned health posts were completed and the remaining budget used for the
construction of maternal waiting sheds.
9.    Implementation Schedule. Implementation schedules were prepared on an
annual basis. However, due to frequent suspensions and staff changes, it proved difficult
to execute the activities as planned.
10.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Factors that inhibited the
smooth functioning of the project included: (i) the change in Government in July 1994;
(ii) months of suspension of Special Account replenishments; (iii) financial management
problems from the outset; (iv) overestimation of Government's capacity to implement the



literacy and savings mobilization programs; and (v) diversion by Government of project
resources, such as vehicles and revolving fund monies. Positive influences on project
implementation include: (i) staff dedication, and stable and good project coordination
since 1994/95, (ii) effective coordinating mechanisms; (iii) strong Government
commitment and support during most of implementation; (iv) high demand for the
services provided by the project; (v) adequate preparation and supervision; and (v) good
technical assistance for many of the components.
11.   Assessment of the Bank's Performance. The Bank's performance was
satisfactory. The project was well identified but the problems experienced during
implementation raise questions about the assumptions made during appraisal,
particularly concerning agricultural credit and the Safe Motherhood Component.
Activities such as agricultural credit and the Baby Friendly Initiative were added later and
never actually appraised. Project design was based on good sector work. Supervision
and follow up was regular with two missions a year on average, three during the early
years. The exception was during the 1994/95 period when task management changed
three times and the Bank distanced itself from operations following the 1994 coup.
12.   Assessment of the Borrower's Performance. Borrower perfornance was
satisfactory in later years. During the first 2-3 years, project management was unable to
establish collaboration with the different component coordinators. It showed confusion
about its authority and often made unilateral decisions that impinged on the responsibility
of others. However, even during this time, a reasonably high level of commitment and
seriousness was displayed throughout implementation.
13.   Assessment of the Project's Outcome. The overall project outcome is somewhat
difficult to assess because performance indicators were not defined. During supervision
in early 1996, a set of quantitative indicators was extracted from the Staff Appraisal
Report. Based on these indicators, project outcomes are satisfactory. In addition,
agriculture and livestock yields increased for women involved in the project. The project
has also contributed to a greater awareness of women's concerns, constraints, and
capabilities not only in Government, but in the country as a whole.
SUMMARY OF FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
14. Future Operation and Sustainability. Government has not prepared a specific
plan for the future operation of the project. Nevertheless, it is highly likely that
successful programs will continue. In Agriculture, most activities were mainstreamed
with the implementation of the Agricultural Services Project and will continue as part of
the core services provided by the Department of State for Agriculture. In Safe
Motherhood and Family Planning, the IDA financed Participatory Health and Nutrition
Project will continue and expand the Baby Friendly Initiative, the Community Based
Distributors (for contraceptives), and the Imam/Kabilo family planning programs thereby
making them more a part of the core activities of the Department of State for Health.
Government is also providing for an appropriate complement of staff for the Women's



iv
Bureau to enable it to continue its policy support role. However, greater effort or a
different strategy may be required for some programs such as adult literacy and credit
before they can become cost-effective and sustainable.
15.   Lessons Learned. Key lessons learned during project implementation include:
* When addressing gender issues, it may be more effective to start by refocusing core
programs so that they better target women. Pilots can be introduced later when there
is a sufficient support for them.
* Innovative pilots and those that require tailoring for different groups are two areas
where the private sector has a comparative advantage over Government.
* The multiplication of credit schemes for women targeting different activities is not
cost-effective or efficient.
* IEC interventions can be more effective in The Gambia, in any sector, if they
integrate traditional and modem communication methods.
* Given the vital function of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, roles and
responsibilities within the Unit and between the Unit and the various project
components must be clearly defined from the outset. An implementation manual,
with both monitoring and evaluation indicators as well as appropriate methodologies,
is necessary.
Eligibility to access funds for sub-projects (e.g. the NGO fund) should include clear
criteria for sustainability, such as evidence of the availability of necessary equipment
and materials, and of financing for recurrent expenditure for the continued operation
of the projects.
* An implementation manual, particularly for Monitoring and Evaluation and pilot
programs, could have helped significantly to clarify roles and responsibilities and
ensure smoother implementation.
* Financial management problems can cause important delays in achieving project
objectives. In addition to ensuring that a computerized financial management system
and qualified personnel are in place at the start of the project, criteria for the
recruitment of the project manager should also include experience in project planning
and financial management. Technical issues and overall coordination can be handled
by a technical specialist.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2141-GM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the project were to:
* Improve women's productivity and income-earning potential,
* Improve women's welfare and status,
* Strengthen government institutions to enable them to better integrate women's
issues in their work, and
* Contribute to bringing about a change in Gambian society's perception of the
role of women.
2.    Project design was complex, with six components and 18 sub-components
involving four Ministries, the Women's Bureau and several NGOs. The complexity of the
operation was foreseen in the beginning, and a deliberate choice was made to test this
cross-sectoral approach.
3.    The financing plan included six financiers -- IDA about half (US$ 7.0 million) the
estimated total project cost of US$ 15.0 million; the ADB US$ 2.8 million for the Skills
Development component, the Government of Norway US$ 1.6 million for the Safe
Motherhood and Family Planning, the UNDP about US$ 1.0 million for livestock and
horticulture extension, the UNFPA US$ 0.1 million for Family Planning education, and
UNIFEM for post-harvest technology as well as about 50% of the total cost of project
management and the component to Strengthen the Women's Bureau. The UNIFEM
funds made available, however, were less than expected during the first year and
disappeared by the third year.
4.    The Agriculture component, based within the Department of State for Agriculture,
focused on increasing women's productivity and income. The component supported
activities and programs designed to increase women's : (a) crop, livestock and small
ruminant yields; (b) access to production technologies, food processing and preservation,
(c) savings, and (d) access to credit. There were comparatively fewer pilots in this
component compared with others. Most interventions built on existing core services
provided by the Department of Agriculture but shifted the target group to women. This
component was financed by IDA and the UNDP. The latter provided support for livestock
and horticulture extension.



2
5.    The Safe Motherhood and Family Planning component, based in the Department
of State for Health, was designed largely to test different ways to reduce maternal
mortality and raise the contraceptive prevalence rate which was estimated at 6% at
appraisal. The project supported pilot activities that aimed to improve: (a) early
identification and evacuation of at risk mothers, (b) mother and infant nutrition, and (c)
family planning services. Unfortunately, data were not kept to link the effects of these
interventions with trends in maternal and child mortality. This was financed by Norway
under a grant administered by IDA.
6.    The objectives of the Information, Education and Communication component,
based in the Women's Bureau, were to create awareness among policy makers of the
needs and status of women, and provide communication support to field activities. The
NGO fund was included to enable NGOs to expand successful interventions for women
and children or to test new ones.
7.    The Skills Development component, based in the Department of State for Local
Government and financed by the ADB, focused on increasing and diversifying women's
income-earning potential through literacy, management and skills training, and small
credit for non-agricultural goods.
8.    A cross cutting objective was institutional development. Explicit institutional
strengthening objectives focused on Government institutions, the Women's Bureau in
particular for which there was a dedicated component. The strengthening was intended to
influence Government policies and programs. Different forms of capacity building for
community and village based women's groups, e.g. management training for kafo groups
(i.e. women's collective savings groups) and local area women counselors, took place
within the activities of the components.
9.    Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were derived from a baseline
survey of women's status and needs, and other preparation studies. They addressed the
main needs identified, that is increased income and productivity, better maternal and child
care, and better access to productive resources, education and training.
10.   The objectives stayed the same throughout the life of project. But given the pilot
nature of the project, modifications were made to project activities and implementation
strategies. Such changes included:
In Agriculture, a drug revolving fund was established to allow for bulk
purchases of veterinary drugs for livestock, and credit was added. At
appraisal, the Bank opposed adding credit other than for agricultural inputs.
However, a supervision report back in 1992 states that "female farmers
complain about the lack of credit to buy farm implements, animals and
transport equipment needed to increase their productivity." Subsequently,
credit was added to the prograrns of the Gambia Cooperative Union
(marketing), and the Gambia Women's Finance Association (credit and



3
savings). Only the latter was a net addition to project costs. GWFA was
allocated 500,000 dalasis (US$ 50,000) for salary and operating expenses, the
idea being to support rural savings mobilization and agricultural credit.
*  In Safe Motherhood and Family Planning, expansion of the Baby Friendly
Initiative, and a tetanus vaccine campaign for pregnant women, were added.
*  The level of support expected from UNIFEM never materialized. This resulted
in: (a) fluctuations in the staffing of the Women's Bureau until Government
picked up the financing about three years into the project, although at a mildly
lower staff level; and (b) abandonment of the post-harvest technology sub-
component. Although some attempts were made to start up some post-harvest
technologies, the Department of Agriculture never really pursued them
because it did not want to reallocate funding from other programs.
11.   A mid-term review was conducted in July 1994 and was completed before the
change in Government. At that time, it was agreed that the project would focus less on
institutional strengthening, and more on field interventions that more directly benefit
women. Specific mention was made of expanding the Kabilo and Imam operations of
Save the Children Federation USA because the Department of State for Health (DOSH)
was making little progress in expanding the program. Adjustments were also made to the
application procedure and criteria for accessing the NGO Fund which increased access for
local NGOs and women's groups.
12.   The project presented a moderate level of risk for Government. Given its
complexity, implementation and management were sure to be demanding. The project
contained many pilots, and tried to expand others that had not been in operation for very
long. For these, implementation required sustained attention and regular monitoring.
Given the number of implementing agencies involved, strong coordination would also be
essential. There were chronic problems with audits and financial management due to the
lack of properly trained accounting staff and inadequate scope of audit reports. Audits
and good financial management were not given priority until the project was suspended.
There were never any monitoring indicators nor any system for monitoring and
evaluation. Monitoring activities were conducted on an ad hoc basis. There was no
coordination between the project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and those responsible
for monitoring in the various components. However, the management structure and
coordinating mechanisms in the project provided good mechanisms to retain some
stability and continuity during important periods of transition (e.g. change in Government
and management staff) which could have had a more negative impact on project
implementation.



4
13.   Apart from the standard conditions, legal covenants generally related to staffing
provisions for the components and project management. In agriculture, however, a
covenant specified percentage changes in the number of women contact farmers to be
reached by extension agents, with a goal of 60% women farmers by 1996. Another
specified percent increases of women as recipients of block demonstrations.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
14.  It is difficult to provide quantitative indicators of the overall achievements of the
project in the 200 WID villages. One cannot say, for example, how many women on the
aggregate increased their income and by how much, or how many women's groups are
able to manage a small business, or how many lives were saved, and so on. We know
more about coverage, how beneficiaries responded to the support that the project
provided, and the potential level of effectiveness of specific strategies.
15.   The objectives of the Agriculture component were substantially achieved in most
areas. In field crop extension, females' share of contact farmers increased from an
estimated 10% at the time of appraisal to about 70% at project completion, exceeding the
project's 60% target. Over 90% of beneficiaries report a two- to three-fold increase in
yields as a result. Seventy livestock demonstration sites were established for women
(more than double the number planned) and most were constructed by women. Animal
health improved through better feeding regimes and vaccinations. Annual livestock
shows gave women a market, and their participation increased steadily from 12% at the
first show in 1991 to 50% in the 1996 show. The Gambia Women's Finance Association
(GWFA) provided savings mobilization services to 120 women's groups, as well as
advice and training to 2,000 women entrepreneurs. Cumulative savings reached
D860,000 in 1996; loan repayment rate is at 95%.
16.  It is somewhat more difficult to assess achievement of the objectives of the Safe
Motherhood and Family Planning component. Both the sector and the component were
complex. The overall objectives were ambitious in that they could not be achieved by the
project alone. There were at least four pilots in this component. Although monitored
reasonably well, only one was evaluated well enough to quantify the benefits.
Nevertheless, certain conclusions can be drawn about their effectiveness. The Baby
Friendly Initiative was an effective strategy to improve maternal and child nutrition,
particularly by changing women's attitudes and behavior regarding breast feeding.
Supervision Missions reported that infants in the group uniformly showed higher birth
weights, proper weight gain, and fewer illnesses. The Kabilo/Imam project, piloted by
Save the Children, to increase contraceptive prevalence through demand mobilization and
supply of contraceptives, showed important results. Among married women in the
program with a birth during the past three years, contraceptive prevalence increased from
between 7% and 11% before the intervention to 17% to 23% after, compared with an
increase from 3% to 8% for the control group.



5
17.   The IEC objective of creating awareness of women's needs and concerns was
substantially achieved. The WID project was widely known throughout the Gambia. The
IEC strategy itself became particularly effective once women were drawn into message
development and/or delivery through theater groups, and through women-run community
radio stations and video halls.
18.   The NGO fund enabled the replication of WID activities so that women were able
to benefit from a fuller range of options (each WID village did not have the same
programs). 68 sub-projects were financed in the areas of skills training, literacy, maternal
and child health, and agriculture. It also improved the collaboration between Government
and NGOs in The Gambia. However, sustainability is of infrastructure investments is
unclear given that some did not have the equipment necessary to become operational,
e.g., the few sites visited by the completion mission found that the library had very few
books, and a health care center and food processing center were empty, awaiting co-
financing.
19.  In Skills Development, it is a bit too early to assess achievement but the final
results are likely to show a mixed picture. The women's literacy sub-component had
many design and implementation problems. Only 65% of the target 10,000 women were
reached, and drop-out is estimated at 75%, although it is difficult to define drop-out since
there is no termination date to the program. An estimated 30% of women who continued
are able to read and write simple sentences and text in their own language.
20.   The credit sub-component has been in operation for only one year. It will
probably partially achieve its objectives. Women's groups appreciate the organization
and management skills they acquired through the credit training. Loan recovery is good;
as of September 1996, the repayment rate was 82%. However, the amount of credit
disbursed will probably be less than expected because non-agricultural productive
activities take place only during the few months of the year when women are not farming,
marketing is problematic, and income-generating ideas are still limited.
21.   Objectives concerning institutional strengthening were substantially achieved.
Some stronger departments did result from the training provided. Examples include the
Department of Community Development, the Department of Agriculture Services, in
particular the Food and Nutrition Unit, and the Department of Livestock Services. The
Women's Bureau is getting a fuller complement of staff financed by the Government
budget but staff recruitment and defining a manageable role and work program for the
bureau remain important challenges.



6
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
22.   Factors that inhibited the smooth functioning of the project were:
The change in Government in July 1994. The effects were long lasting and
included staff changes, and some loss of project resources (17 vehicles were
initially borrowed and remained out of commission for at least six months,
with four of those missing for somewhat longer.) Government policy of
dumping cheap fertilizer on the market, the setting of fertilizer prices and the
diversion of revolving fund resources seriously damaged the Agricultural
Inputs sub-component.
* Months of suspension of Special Account (SA) replenishments made
implementation and management difficult. Use of the SA was suspended in
1993 following financial management irregularities, from July - December
1994 following the change in government, and from August 1996 to May 7,
1997 for audit requirements and reimbursement of undocumented expenditure.
Since most expenditure under the project was made from the SA on the basis
of Statements of Expenditure, activities that could not be pre-financed under
counterpart funds came to a standstill during these periods.
*  Other contributing factors to implementation delays were: (a) The Project
Management Unit was unable to replenish the SA frequently enough to have
sufficient funds when needed given the SA ceiling of US$ 400,000. This was
due mainly to the inability of the Central Bank to issue statements on less than
a monthly basis and on time. Given the periods of suspension, disbursements
were often bunched, complicating the liquidity problem. (b) The low threshold
of Government for the procurement of goods and services (10,000 dalasis)
meant that nearly all procurement required tender board approval.
*  The project was beset with financial management problems from the start. A
Supervision Report in 1993 reported that an audit covering 1992 revealed
undocumented expenditures. However, the Bank's files do not include the
amount in question nor the subsequent action taken by the Bank. Despite two
attempts to establish a proper accounting system, internal control systems
were largely ignored. Incomplete audits disguised the extent of financial
irregularities. Finally in 1995, a systems audit was conducted and a firmn
recruited to conduct all audits. Numerous internal control weaknesses were
disclosed and monitored. By project closing, these problems were greatly
reduced.
*  In literacy and savings mobilization, capacity to deliver the programs was
probably overestimated at appraisal. The project included literacy not only
because of its links to increased productivity and health, but also because on-



7
going NGO literacy programs showed positive results. In the project,
responsibility for program delivery was given to Non-formal Education in the
Department of State for Education which did not have the capacity to deliver
the program.
* The Private Dealer Agricultural Input operation suffered for two years because
its vehicle was commandeered and not returned following the coup. In 1996, a
directive was issued by the Department of State for Agriculture to reallocate
fertilizer intended for the Private Dealers Revolving Fund to Area Councils
and District Commissioners for distribution to the general farm population.
Of an estimated 1.7 million dalasis only 0.3 million has been repaid, leaving
the revolving fund depleted by about one third of its original amount.
23.   Factors that positively influenced project implementation were.
*  A combination of staff dedication, stable and good project coordination since
1994/5, and effective coordinating mechanisms. The Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC), comprised of all Permanent Secretaries, met periodically to
address issues that required their level of advice and intervention. The PCC
was particularly useful for resolving problems and participation was generally
good. At the technical level, the Implementation Coordinating Committee
(ICC), composed of the component coordinators, senior PMU staff, and the
Executive Secretary of TANGO, met monthly to discuss project planning and
progress.
* Government commitment and support was high during most of
implementation. Staffing of project components was never an issue, and an
adequate level of counterpart funds was consistently provided.
*  There is a high demand for the services provided under the WID project,
particularly those that might increase agricultural productivity or income in
general. Participation of women in project activities was never a problem,
even though in some cases the results were not brilliant.
*  The project was well prepared and supervised, combining a mix of fairly well
defined activities and inputs, and flexibility in supervision which was
necessary given the many pilot interventions. Both were important -- the
former in providing a reasonably solid framework during times of transition,
and the latter to maintain an openness to take advantage of new opportunities.
*  Good technical assistance for the IEC, skills development credit, horticulture,
food preservation and nutrition had a positive impact on the quality of the
programs and institutions.



8
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   There is broad agreement among Government, NGOs and village level
organizations that families benefit from improvements in women's income and welfare.
Today most, if not all, donors give priority to programs that target women and children.
Given this, it is likely that the commitment to improve the welfare and status of Gambian
women will be long-lasting.
25.   Overall, project sustainability is likely although certain project activities will not
be sustainable without a committed Government decision to put them on a more stable
footing. This pertains to the Agriculture Inputs Revolving Fund to which the area
councils, district commissioners, and Gambia Cooperative Union owe an estimated 1.4
million dalasis. It also pertains to the Women's Bureau where efforts are needed to
appoint appropriately qualified staff.
26.   Within the project framework, and in collaboration with other development
partners, a National Gender Policy was developed and the National Women's Council Act
of 1987 was also reviewed and updated. Both policy instruments will invariably help
provide a clearer direction and focus for future gender oriented initiatives.
27.   Sustainability of project activities, and an improved focus on women more
generally, is highly likely in the agriculture sector because most project activities built on
existing services. Also, it had been planned at the start that the next agricultural services
project would continue and expand the focus on women, particularly in harvest and post
harvest technologies. The UNDP is continuing livestock and food and nutrition activities
in three divisions (URD, CD, and NBD).
28.  In the health sector, sustainability is highly likely. Activities that are part of the
core services of the DOSH, e.g. vaccine campaigns, training of traditional birth attendants
and community health nurses, will continue as part of the core programs of the DOSH.
The Participatory Health and Nutrition project will continue with the Baby Friendly
Initiative and the Imam/Kabilo program.
29.  In the area of IEC, sustainability of activities is likely. Government is financing
the position of an IEC specialist in the Women's Bureau to replace the consultant who
was on contract for most of the project. The UNDP Household Food Security Program
will support IEC activities through the Women's Bureau. However, the expansion of IEC
activities will probably depend on continued external financing, either directly or through
other projects for which the Women's Bureau IEC unit provides support.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. Project identification was well done,
but the weak implementation of the pilot programs suggest that appraisal of these areas
could have been more thorough. Project design was based on good sector work. With
the exception of the Non Formal Education unit in the Department of State for Education,



9
and perhaps the capacity of the Department of State for Health to implement the pilot
programs, the Bank correctly appraised implementation capacity and highlighted
potential problem areas such as the Women's Bureau and GWFA.
31.   Supervision and follow up was regular with two missions a year on average, three
during the early years. The exception was during the period 1994-1995 when task
management changed three times and the Bank distanced itself from operations following
the 1994 coup. This did not facilitate implementation, particularly given the complex
nature of the project which, under the best of circumstances, made supervision difficult.
The skill composition of the supervision teams were appropriate and suitable expertise
was brought in when needed (e.g. banking, accounting and financial management, NGO
funds). The Bank showed flexibility in responding to new opportunities such as
encouraging an expansion of the Baby Friendly Initiative, a successful NGO program,
and re-testing the horse cart ambulance to address the problems before dismissing the
effort as unworkable.
32.   Bank missions adequately reported the progress of the project. Ratings were
appropriate with the exception of those for project management. Up to 1994, management
was consistently rated highly satisfactory even in the midst of financial irregularities that
caused the senior and accounting staff to be put on administrative leave. To correct
financial management problems, the results of a systems audit was received in June 1996,
and in July 1996 an action plan was agreed upon with the Borrower to correct internal
control problems. Progress on the plan was checked every mission and between missions
by correspondence. Use of the Special Account and SOEs was suspended in August
1996, after several warnings, due to outstanding audits and delays in the recruitment of an
external auditor. The suspension continued through May 1997 pending the receipt of the
outstanding audit reports and, then, reimbursement of undocumented expenditure
revealed by the audits. Advice was consistently sought from Operations Support on the
problems and audit specialists from the Bank went on mission twice, once in 1993 and
again in 1997 to review compliance with agreements and advise on how to improve the
situation.
33.   Project progress was discussed in depth regularly (twice a year) with the Project
Coordinating Committee. Its advice and endorsement were obtained on important
decisions and agreements. At times, however, Bank missions drew premature
conclusions of results (e.g. in literacy), and greater success was attributed to some
activities than could actually be measured (e.g. savings mobilization and agricultural
credit).
34.   On the disbursement side, the Bank was often slow in processing replenishment
and direct payment applications, about which the Borrower complained on several
occasions. The disbursement office was also insensitive to pleas of the Borrower for a
higher special account ceiling. A request was made on two occasions for approval of a
higher ceiling, which was particularly needed towards the end of the project following a
period of suspension when liquidity was important. However, the requests were denied on



10
the grounds that the Borrower was not replenishing on a monthly basis which was not
really the case at the time of the second request.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in later years. During the first 2-3 years,
project management was unable to establish collaboration with the different component
coordinators. It showed confusion about its authority, often making unilateral decisions
that affected and impinged on the responsibility of the components and the PCC. In late
1993, financial management irregularities resulted in permanent administrative leave for
the project's senior management and accounting staff. Government acted quickly to
replace them after which coordination and management improved considerably.
Financial management, accounting and internal control procedures were problematic due
to inexperienced accounting staff and the relatively low priority given to these activities
by project management. This situation began to improve by project closing.
36.   A reasonably high level of commitment and seriousness was displayed throughout
implementation by most everyone involved, from field workers to Permanent Secretaries.
Counterpart funding was adequate and available. Staffing was usually sufficient in
number. Despite the many upsets, implementation was completed satisfactorily (relative
to the initial objectives) with a one year extension.
37.   Staff strengths were clearly in implementation and field work. Monitoring and
evaluation, particularly evaluation, were always weak spots. Monitoring was frequent,
but often not systematic, and the data were not centrally pooled. Reporting was irregular.
38.   Donor co-financing was divided up by component or sub-component, with IDA,
the Government of Norway and the ADB financing about 90% project costs. With the
exception of the Government of Norway, financial partners tended to supervise the
components which they financed. The Government of Norway, for whom the Bank
administered the grant, financed a consultant to supervise the Safe Motherhood
Component upon the Bank's request throughout most of the life of the project. Without
this financing, it is unlikely that this continuity would have prevailed given the number of
specializations required for supervision. Due to a shortage of staff and resources, the
ADB rarely supervised the Skills Development component. Despite attempts to conduct
joint missions, this never materialized. In the absence of ADB supervision, IDA missions
provided as much support to this component as was possible and collaborated closely
with the staff and ADB technical assistant of this component. In 1996, IDA missions
helped bring them under the umbrella of the PMU. Prior to that time, they worked
independently from the rest of the project. This greatly boosted their morale, and sense
of support. However, IDA missions could not solve those difficulties related to the slow
response time of the ADB. The other co-financier, the UN (UNDP and UNFPA), had a
local presence and managed its own financing. It was usually visited for consultations
during missions. However, joint missions were not conducted.



11
39.   On the part of the PMU, there was no coordination of the donors. This may be
due to the fact that it only managed IDA and Norway financing and was not kept
informed of the activities of the other donors. This changed for the Skills Development
Component in 1996 but remained the same for the other financiers.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The overall project outcome is somewhat difficult to assess because performance
indicators were not defined. During a supervision mission in early 1996, a set of
quantitative indicators were derived from the Staff Appraisal Report. Annex Table 5
shows the indicators, the results expected, and the results achieved.
41.   Overall, project outcomes are satisfactory. Field crop, horticulture and livestock
production increased for the women involved in the project as a result of greater contact
with more qualified extension staff and increased availability of inputs such as fertilizer,
insecticide, animal housing and veterinary drugs. However, women's agricultural
production is still limited by their inability to purchase production implements, such as
draft animals and equipment. Post harvest processing equipment, especially for cereals
and oilseeds, is still limited as well.
42.   The project has contributed to a greater awareness of women's concerns,
constraints and capabilities not only in Government, but in the country as a whole. The
IEC component contributed substantially to this result. In all sectors, emerging policies
are more favorable to women than they have been in the past. At the national level, a
gender policy has been prepared and adopted by Government which will serve to orient
development activities towards the same objectives as those supported by the WID
project.
43.   Relations between NGOs and Government have improved, and the IEC
component has contributed to a spill over effect of the project into non-WID villages.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
44.   Government has not prepared a specific plan for the future operation of the
project. In Agriculture, most activities were mainstreamed under the Agricultural
Services Project and therefore will continue as part of the core services provided by the
Department of State for Agriculture. In Safe Motherhood and Family Planning, IDA
financed Participatory Health. Population and Nutrition Project will continue and expand
the Baby Friendly Initiative, the Community Based Distributor (for contraceptives), and
the Imam/Kabilo family planning programs thereby making them more a part of the core
activities of the DOSH. The UNDP will be continuing some of the activities underway in
the Departments of Livestock, and Food and Nutrition, as well as IEC. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) will continue the financing of the IEC
activities, started under the project, in its new rural financing and income development
project. More generally, in the context of the forthcoming Country Assistance Strategy



12
(expected to be presented to the Board in early FY99), a comprehensive capacity building
assessment is planned, which will identify the areas where institutional capacity needs to
be strengthened, including through IDA lending and non-lending support. Also foreseen
under the new country strategy is a small operation which will utilize and strengthen the
traditional media channels (popular theater, songs, local communicators) to implement
more effectively the Government's population policy.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   Much early discussion about the project concerned the usefulness of: (a) grouping
activities of different sectors under an umbrella and management outside the sectors (free
standing multisectoral), versus (b) integrating gender issues into sectoral policies and
core work by supporting gender issues within sectoral programs, e.g. a girl's education
program within an education project or Safe Motherhood within a health project. The
choice is not obvious. It takes a very long time for gender considerations to enter policy
and programming in a systematic way. It requires people to champion the cause and the
emergence of a critical enough mass that considers gender issues important. Experience
with integration shows that, initially, the few identified to work on gender issues tend to
be separated and marginalized. The multisectoral approach of the WID project had certain
advantages: (a) It provided a supportive and collaborative environment for those working
on women's issues in sectoral departments that may have otherwise been marginalized.
(b) It gave their work more importance and created capacity more quickly. (c) It
probably also increased the visibility of women's issues more than a sectoral approach
would have. All this was greatly facilitated by the coordinating structures of the project.
46.   No matter the approach taken, when addressing gender issues, it may be more
effective to start by refocusing core programs so that they better target women. Pilots can
be introduced later when there is sufficient support for them.
47.   Innovative pilots (e.g. risk evaluation) and those that require tailoring for different
groups (e.g. skills and literacy training) are two areas where the private sector (NGOs and
other local development agencies) has a comparative advantage. The programs work
because of the service provider. The result would probably not be the same if
Government became the provider and expanded the service nation-wide. NGOs in The
Gambia are willing to collaborate with Government, provided that the rules of the game
are clear and that NGOs can utilize their own procedures and strategies to the maximum
extent possible.
48.   Eligibility to access funds for sub-projects (e.g. the NGO fund) should include
clear criteria for sustainability, such as evidence of the availability of necessary
equipment and materials, and of financing for recurrent expenditure for the continued
operation of the projects.
49.   There were four credit programs in the project, added to a number of others
available in the country. The multiplication of credit schemes targeting different
activities (e.g. agricultural, non-agricultural, agriculture inputs, retail, etc.) is not very



13
efficient. For women, splitting up credit programs into agricultural and non-agricultural
income earning projects means that non agricultural credit is likely to remain dormant
during the agricultural season and vice versa. In addition, information on options is less
accessible to women, and the transaction costs are higher.
50.   The integration of traditional and modern communication methods in the IEC
component was innovative and effective. It promoted two-way communication and
provided women with a means to develop and disseminate their own messages through,
for example, theater and radio which reach large audiences.
51.   Operational manuals for Monitoring and Evaluation and pilot programs, including
both monitoring and evaluation indicators as well as the appropriate methodologies
needed to accomplish the tasks, may have helped to avert the problems experienced in the
project M and E Unit. The roles of the M and E unit as well as those of the various
project components must be clearly stated to facilitate collaboration and avoid confusion.
52.   Financial management problems can cause important delays in achieving project
objectives. In addition to ensuring that a computerized financial management system and
qualified personnel are in place at the start of the project, criteria for the recruitment of
the project manager should also include experience in project planning and financial
management. Technical issues and overall coordination of planning and implementation
could be handled by a technical specialist.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementof Obiectives        Substantial       Partial        Nedigible       Not apolicable
Macro Policies                                     El               5                E
Sector Policies                    E3                                                 5
Financial Objectives                55
InstitutionalDevelopment                                                             I - 0l
Physical Objectives                                                                  E l s
Poverty Reduction                                  El 00
Gender Issues                                      i:               i                 El
Other Social Objectives             5               5                5
EnvironmentalObjectives                             S               El
Public Sector Management                           E                 5  
Private Sector Development          5]                               53
Other (specify)                                                     El                E l
B. Proiect Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactorv         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                                                        i:i
Preparation Assistance                                                                E l
Appraisal                                                                              
Supervision                                                                          [
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                          3       
Implementation                                                                        s
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)          E                         s                        s
Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory         Satisfactorv             Unsatisfactory
S                                                 S O



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                    Purpose              Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
Cr. 792-GM               First Education Sector              1978          Completed
Project: Constructed a
technical institute, a
management development
institute, training center for
nurses, secondary school
workshops, three regional
education centers, equipment of
planning unit
Following operations
Cr. 2142                 Second Education Sector             1990           Ongoing
Project: Increase access to and
improve the quality and
efficiency of education in a
sustainable, cost-effective
manner.
Third Education Sector                           Pre-appraised
Program
Participatory Health &                            Approved
Population Project



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
I        Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              January 1988
Preparation                                                               1988/1989
Appraisal                                                              Oct.-Nov. 1989
Negotiations                                                             April 1990
Board presentation                                                        May 1990
Signing                                          June 1990              June29, 1990
Effectiveness                                  October 1990          December 27, 1990
Mid-Term Review                               December 1992               July 1994
Project completion                          December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997
Credit closing                              December 31, 1996        December 31, 1997



18
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
IDA Credit
* = Expected after final disbursements.
FY1991  FY1992  FY1993   FY1994  FY1995   FY1996    FY1997
Appraisal estimate      2.1      4.0      5.1        6.0      6.5       7.0
Actual                  1.0      1.8      3.3       4.7       5.5       6.2     6.7*
Actual as % of
estimate               48%      45%      64%       78%       84%       88%     96%
Date of final                                                               April 30,
disbursement                                                                 1998
Norwegian Grant (TF 24220)
(NOK '000)
* Expected after final disbursements.
FY1991  FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996    FY1997
Appraisal estimate    1,300    4,000    6,800    8,700    9,900   10,000
Actual                500    1,272    2,081    3,783    5,376   6,695    7,805 *
Actual as % of         38%      32%      31%      43%      54%      67%    85%*
estimate
Date of final                                                            April 30,
disbursement                                                              1998



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation indicators in                   Objective      Final Result
SAR/President's Report*
Safe Motherhood and Family Planning
1. High risk pregnancy identification, management
and referral
No of beneficiary villages                                 50              11
CHNs trained                                             40-50            50
Trekking teams trained a!                                  45             48
Untrained TBAs trained                                    200             140
Sub-dispensaries refurbished                               35              9
New health posts constructed in isolated villages          10              8
Trekking tearns received medical equipment c/              15             48
Radio communications equipment delivered                   15             10
2. Alarm and evacuation system
Villages with animal drawn carts b/
ft pilot villages                                  21              23
# beneficiary villages if pilot is successful     105,0            0
Number of carts actually functioning                      105,0            3
3. Women's Nutrition
(a) change behavior to improve nutrition and health of               baby-friendly
high risk groups (emphasis on pregnant and lactating                 village pilot
women)                                                               successful
Micronutrients distributed                                      NS          10,000
# Recipes developed for weaning foods and matemal               NS              2
supplements using local ingredients
Food Supplementation Centers                                                  119
Baby Friendly Villages                                          NA             12
TBAs trained                                                                12
CHNs trained
Surveillance (# children)                                       NA         45,000
Nutrition- training extension workers                           NA             86
Code-training health facilitators                               NA   Not done
Research conducted on food practices and beliefs                     Completed
Study conducted on Vitamin A deficiency                              Not done
Market and household shelf studies to guide design of                Not done
nutrition education program
NS Not specified in SAR
NA = Not available
*Items mentioned in SAR with no quantitative targets



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd)
I.  Key implementation indicators in                   Objective          Final Result
SAR/President's Report                                                                  l
Safe Motherhood and Family Planning
4. Family Planning
Establish new CBD sites
in rural non-PHC areas(Medical and Health Dept.)   40                  40
in greater Banjul (Gambia Family Planning Assn.)   20                  20
CBDs trained                                              60                  60
CBDs retrained                                                                40
Local distributors trained                                100       Not done
Contraceptives distributed                                NS        Data not yet compiled
Number of distribution sites                              NS                  60
Kabilo/Imam Project Villages
# TBAs trained                                            50                   60
# Imams trained                                           60                  60
# CHNs trained                                                                450
# DHTs trained                                            NS                   18
NS = No specific target was specified.                    NS                   2
NA = Objective was not specified in the project originall
design.
a/ financed by UNFPA
b/ being re-piloted in 3 villages
c/ the difference was financed with other resources
ACTIVITY                                         RESULT
1. Horticulture
Training on improved practices                  1 specializedtraining session for 110 participants; 1
in-service training for 20 SMSs
External training                               40 orientation training for 1,200 women
Horticultural shows                             3 shows involving 131 gardens, 54 schools and several
NGOs
Horticulture Production Manual                  500 copies distributedto Government and NGO staff
Production of horticulture leaflets             5 leaflets completed for distribution to staff
Study tours                                     4 women and 66 extension staff visited the Centre de
Recherche Horticole, Dakar and several garden
projects in Senegal
Horticultural Market Survey                     I survey completed
2. Field Crops
Kaffo (group) farms                             506 farms, 152 villages, 21,962 women
On-farm trials                                  205 trials, 628 women
Micro-plots                                     168 micro-plots, 168 villages, 168 women
Village-basedfarmertraining                     32 trainings, 35 villages, 3,513 women



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd)
ACTIVITY                                         RESULT
3. Food and Nutrition Unit
Recipe development
main dishes                                     17 recipes developed using maize, beans,
millet and banana as main ingredients
jams                                            mango, papaya, tomato, watermelon
chutneys                                        mango, papaya, eggplant, cabbage, tomato
fruit juices                                    mango, watermelon, tomato
sauces                                          pepper sauce and tomato paste
Weaning foods                                   different paps developed using sesame, groundnut,
millet, maize and beans as main ingredients
Solar drying                                    mango chips, papaya chips, tomato, onions, okra,
cabbage, eggplant and various leaves
4. Women's Livestock
Sensitization of women livestock farmers        awareness campaigns in 200 villages
Survey of small ruminants and poultry           conducted in 60 villages
Sheep fattening                                 1,737 sheep fattened
Staff training (internal)                       14 participants
Farmer training and filed days                  16 days organized
External training of staff                      3 HND, 2msc
Mass vaccination and drenching                  206,813 small ruminants
268,161 poultry
Establish fodder tree propagation sites         15,000 trees planted
Livestock and poultry market days               5 days organized
Poultry feed formulation and demonstration      4
Development of small ruminant and poultry manual    300 copies distributed to field workers-govemmentand
NGO
Study tours for women farmers                   3 to Senegal and 1 to Burkina Faso



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
|There were no key indicators specified in the SAR or President's report; they developed
during project implementation and are included in Table 5.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                  at Appraisal/Redefined               Status                  fmpact of Study
1.   Baseline Study in 20 WID                                Complete 1993
villages
2.   HorLicultire Market                                      Completed 1995
Survey
3.   Violence against Men and
Women
4.   Shelf Life Studies for
Various Processed Foods
5.   Surv.ey of Small
Ruminants and Village
Poultry
6.   National WID Policy                                      Completed 1997
7.   Evaluation of Women's                                    Completed 1996
Video Halls
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                         Appraisal estimate (USSM)               Actual/latest estimate (USS)
Local       Foreign      Total                       Total
1. Civil Works                                 0.2          0.3          0.6                        1.6*
2. Office Furniture and Equipment               0.1          0.3          0.4                        0.4
3. Vehicles and Materials                       0.2          1.8          2.0                        2.0
4. Training                                     1.0          0.4          1.5                        2.5
5. Specialist Services                          0.1          1.8          1.9                        1.5
6. Research and Evaluation                     0.1           0.3          0.4                        0.3
7. Credit                                       0.5          1.3          1.8                        1.8
8. Operating Costs                              1.9          0.8          2.8                        3.5
9. Refinancing PPF                              0.5          0.7          1.2                        1.2
10. Unallocated                                 1.3          1.1          2.4                        0.3
TOTAL                                       2.1          15.1                       15.1
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
* This figure is not actual expenditure but rather what the cost would be if the civil works program had been
more accurately costed.



23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)
Source            Local     Foreign      Total              Total
IDA                       1.6         5.4         7.0                6.6
Kingdom of Norway         0.9         0.7         1.6                1.4
ADB                       1.8         1.7         3.5                3.5
UNIFEM                    0.6         0.1         0.7                0.2
UNDP                      0.4         1.0         1.4                1.0
UNFPA                     0.0         0.1         0.1                0.1
Domestic Contribution     0.6         0.2         0.8                0.8
Total                     5.9         9.2        15.1               13.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic
rate of return (ERR), and therefore there is no baseline against which to compare
current estimates. Furthermore no parameters were given at appraisal with regard
to cost effectiveness.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section  Covenant Present                                     Description of                                                      Comments
type    status                                        covenant
3.01(b)  5        C        Borrowershallestablishand maintain in accordancewith IDA: (i) ACCU, (ii) SDCCU, (iii)
IECCU and MEU (iv) SMFPCJ. Borrowerwill appoint and assign to ACCU, SDCCU,
IECCU, SMI CUcoordinators, and to MEO a Monitoringand EvaluationOfficer, all with
qualificationsand experience satisfactoryto the Association.
3.01(c)  5        C        BorrowerwillcontinuetomaintainPCC and PMU in a form and with functionssatisfactoryto
IDA. The PMU shall, at all time, be headed and staffed at the senior levels by persons with
qualificationsand experienceappointed on terms and conditions satisfactoryto IDA.
3.01 (d)  3       C        Borrowershall establish and thereaftermaintain in a form and with operatingprocedures
satisfactoryto IDA, the fund for small projectsand programsto be establisheduunder Part F of
the Project.
3,01 (e)  5       C        Borrowerwill make availableon grantbasis, to NGOs participatingin Projectportionsof the
proceedsofCreditallocatedto Category( 5) in Schedule I of CreditAgreementunder
agreementsto be entered into between Borrower and each such NGO on terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by IDA - requiringNGOs to maintain records and a/c's with
sound accounting practice.
3.01 (f)  3       CP       Borrowershall furnish to IDA, for its approval: (i) the firstthree proposalsofNGOs submitted   Iwo proposals slightly in excess of $40,000 were not
to the Borrowerfor financing of the proceeds of the Credit for any particularactivity, and (ii) all submitted
proposalsof NGOs submitted for such financing in excess of $40,000 equivalent.
3.01 (g) 5          CP    Borrower shall furnish to IDA for its prior review and approval all key staff training  Training programs were prepared on an annual and
programs included in the Project.                                                   ad hoc basis but were approved by IDA.
3.01 (h) 9           C    Borrower shall carry out a mid-term review of the progress of the Project no later than  The mid-term review was carried out in July 1994
December 1992
3.01 (i) 9           C    13orrower and IDA shall, not later than April 30, 1991 and thereafter, not later than April 30
of each subsequent year during which the Project is to due to be executed, exchange views on
the execution of the project and the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement.
3.01 (j) 9          CD    Not later than one month prior to each such exchange of views, Borrower shall furnish to  Borrower is always late in submitting report.
IDA, for review and comments: (i) report on execution of lProject in such forn and detail as I
IDA shall request; and (ii) such other report or document as IDA may reasonably require for
purposes of cach exchange of views.
3.02   10          C      Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Section  Covenant Present                                     Descriptionof                                                      Comments
type    status                                        covenant
3.03 (a) 5           C    Borrower shall increase % of women included in the total number of men and women     Women comprised 70% of contact farmers.
farmers designated and utilized as contact farmers under Borrower's agricultural extension
program to: (i) 10% by June 30, 1991; (ii) 15% by June 1992; (iii) 20% by June 1993; (iv)
_______ ________ ___ 25% by June 1994 and (v) 30 % by June 30, 1995.
3.03 (b) 5        C        Borrower shall increase the % of women included in total number of men and women farmers
to participate in block demonstrations under the Borrower's agricultural extension program
to: (i) 15% by June 30, 1991,;(ii) 20% by June 30, 1992; (iii) 25% by June 30, 1993; (iv) 30
% by June 30, 1994; and (v) by 35% by June 30, 1995.
3.03 (c) 5        CD       Borrower shall prepare and give to IDA by December 31, 1990, a national strategy paper
aimed at: (i) increasing impact of Borrower's agricultural extension program on women; and
(ii) ensuring the achievement of the percentage increases in the number of women contact
farmers and the number of women participating in block demonstrations required under
paragraphs 3.03(a) and 3.03(b).
4.01 (a)  I       NC       Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in  Measures to improve internal controls were agreed
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in    on in June 1996. SOE and SA were suspended in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the Women's August 1996 due to undocumented expenditure.
Bureau) and the NGOs responsible for carrying out the Project or nay part thereof.  Suspension was lifted in May 1997 following
reimbursement.                                         n
4.01 (b) I        CD       Borrower shall (i) have the records and accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Section,  External auditor was recruited for the SOE audits in
(i)                        including the Special Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate  1994. External auditor was recruited in September
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  1996 for all project accounts.
4.01 (b) I        NC       (ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the    Prior to 1996, audits were chronically late and
(ii)                       end of each year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope   incomplete disguising the extent of the
and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and                      management problems.
4.01 (b) I        C        (iii) furnish 'DA such other information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
(iii)                      thereof as it shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c)  I       NC       For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Cred A/C were made on the basis of
(i)                        SOEs, Borrower shall : (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with para.(a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 (c) I        C        retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit for the fiscal year in
(ii)                       which the last withdrawal form the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
4.01 (c) I        C        enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and
(iii)                                                                                                                                                          I
4.01 (c)          C        ensure that every six months said auditors furnish the Association an opinion as to whether
(iv)                       the statements of expenditures submitted during such period, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Borrower complied with all operational manual statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle   [                       Actual
Staff Weeks                US$('000)
Preparation to apparaisal  114.2                     190.1
Appraisal                 40.8                       76.4
Negotiation through Board    1.1                     2.5
Approval
Supervision*               111.1                     219.0
Completiona'               10.0                      .04
TOTAL                     277.2                      488.0



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating
Stage of         Month/    Number    Days          Specialized      Impl.    Develop.                             Types of
project cycle       year         of         in       staff skills     Status      obj.                              problems
persons    Field      represented
Through appraisal       03/87 -      II         51    PPN, LEG, ARC,
10/89                         TRG, HLT,
AGR, ECN
Appraisal through
Board
Board through           10/90        6          6      PPN, ARC, I ILT                        The conditions of credit effectiveness were met in December 1990
eftfectiveness
Supervision
10/90        5         5      T'M, IMPL           NA         NA       Launch and checking on effectiveness. No problems noted.
4/91        4          8      TM, IMPI',                             Management problems, battles between PMU and l'CC, PMU not
HLTI'I                                 following procedures, GWFA unable to come up with workable
proposals, GWFA argues that it cannot carry out its responsibilities
without a line of credit, small markets for women's crops
11-12/91      3          10    'M, AG, AN            2          2      GWFA has internal problems and still no proposal. Livestock and
skills development component have yet started due to fiunding delays   s
by UNIIFEM and ADB.
5/92        3          l     ' TM, I-ILTI 1,       2          2      Delays in release of donor's funds; overstaffing and underbudgeting
CREDI'I'                               of PMU; Special Accounts disbursements suspended in May 1992
due to failure to submit audit.
9/92        2          13    TM, AG                2          2      Continued problem with UNIFEM funds; ADB never supervises,
continued underbudgeting at PMU; shortfalls in local fund
contributions.
2/93        4          10    TM, I ILTI 1, AG      2          2      Women's Bureau management deteriorates, qualified stal'f leave.
I'MU has to recruit more stal'thian foreseen at appraisal, funds
reallocated from unallocated category to cover costs. Delay in
UNDP funding of livestock component. Lack of internal controls,
computerized accounting system not functioning, no control over
fixed assets.
12/93        3         5      TM, I ILTI 1, IEC     2         2       I'MU beset by financial and mgt problems, project manager sacked,
overstafling still a problem. Women's Bureau still having mgt and
staffing problems. Slow progress on Sai'e Motherhood.
7/94        3          18   'I'M, AG, INS'I'       S          S      1Financial and managerial problems in PMU; lack of attentioni to
activities benefitinig women, too much l'ocus on institutional
development. Delays in refurbishmenit of healthi posts, To address
Wi problems, IDA agrees to lIianlce 80% ol' its operating costs.
Stall'conistrainlts of Mii ol'l leath show it cannot implemlienit Imam
Kabilo project.
3/95         l         16    TIM                   S          S      Seizure ol' property by new Governmeilt; Womeni's B1ureau
institutional capacity has weakened fIuthiler. M&E has been dormiant
l'or a l'ew years. 'I'he NGO Fund is not moving due to complicated
procedures. Credit under skills development still not started.
._____________________________________________ ________ __________________    Problems with mobile radio equipment.



Performance
_______ ______Rating
Stage of        Month/   Number    Days          Specialized     Impl.   Develop.                             Types of
project cycle      year         of        in       staff skills    Status      obj.                             problems
persons    Field     represented
4/96        1         12    HLTH                                   Horse drawn ambulance has many problems, radio communication
not working, Kabilo Imam project still has not been expanded, Baby
Friendly Initiative has not been expanded, M&E not functioning,
little improvement in the WB, conflicting info on video hall
performance
7/96        3         10    TM, IMPL,            U          S      Audit, financial management and internal control problems continue.
HLTH                                  Audits are outstanding and of questionable quality. GWFC unable to
provide information on its activities. Repilot of horse carts still
unsuccessful. WB was restructured, PMU now part of WB, WB
functioning improving. Results of literacy programs very
questionable. Project not being properly monitored and evaluated.
Little being done to expand Kabilo/Imam and Baby Friendly
Initiative.
12/96       3         12    TM, IMPL, AG          U         S      Slow progress continues on Safe Motherhood component. Special
Account replenishments suspended in August 1996 due to overdue
audit; diversion of funds from Agricultural Inputs Revolving     co
Account. Project M& E show some improvement but the head is
contested by project staff.
6/97        2         5     TM, ACC              S          S      Plossible implementation delays in civil works and final project
evaluation. Auditing problems largely resolved, a few internal
-I-______             control problems remain (fixed assets and control over fuel).
12/97       4         10    TM, AG, I-ILTH,                 S
Completion                                           IEC
Africa Region
O:\AFTH2\AMY\GAMICR4.DOC
03/23/98 9:23 AM



APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 7
THF. G.AMBIA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA FINAL SIJPERVISION MISSION
DECEMBER 1 - 12, 1997
AIDE MEMOlItE
1.    An IDA mission comprise(d of Rosemary B3ellew (Mission T.eader), RIruna
Vitagliuio  (lIealth  Specialist), Prof.  Benedicte  Jngstad  (Consultant,  Mcdical
Anthropologist), Susan Gainon (Consultunt) and Amy Ba (Task Temii Assistanit) visited
Thc Gambia from Decemaber 1 - 12, 1997 to carry out the final supervision of the WII)
Project and prepare the IJiipleimienitation Cnompiction Rcport.
2.    The mission expresses its sinccre thanks and appreciation to the stalf of the WIT)
Project Managemcnt Unit, thc Department of State for Health, the Women's Bureau anid
Componenit Coordinators  or tlheir support, coopcratioln and hospitality.  Th1is aide-
mcmoire summariz.es the conclusiOns wIlich will bc confirmed later upoii thle mzissioni's
return to Washington.
SUPERVISION
Safe motherhood component
3.    Sinicc the last mission in Jtune 1997, thie construction of healthposis and waiting-
sheds, and refurbishment of sub-dispensaries has been complctcd.   Tlhe radio
communicatiotn equipment, althioughi now in place is not functioninig due to lechnical
problenm. Out of the three re-piloted horses and horse-carts, one horse has died b ut has
been replaced by the villagers themiselves. Some of the motorcycles purchased under thle
project for use, by the CHNs in sulpervising the rural CBDs are prcsently not used duc to
technical problenis. lhlC sparc-parts arc still with the dealer.
4.    Several planned activities sulch as the training of the remaininig 60 '[[lAs, the
training of local commercial distributors of contraceptives, the traininig of tbhe remaininlg
20 I.AD)s, the mnainstreaming of the Kabilo/Imam project tUId the procurement of ireo
tablets were not completed because implementatiot delays led to bunching o1'activities at
the end of the project. Jn additioin, Ihc percnnial problem of obtaining statenitnts from the
Ceentral Banlk did not enable rcplcnishmincit of the Special Account quickly cnougil to
finance the remaining activities. TIhus, somiie remauiniing activities niny not be finuli:/ed
under the WID pro)ject. Howevcr, sonsic ol the activities started will be considured floz
inclusioni in thc Participatory I lealtlh. Population anid Nutritioni Project.  I
5.    The Baby-Friendly villagc pilot project is still vcry promising. Ani evaluatioin ilits
been conducted but not yct finalizcd. lhc mission visitcd one such village and talkcd
with memobers of thc communities, cspecially motlhcrs. Somc 50 babics wCrC sCCee, Imost
of whom appear to be very hcalthiy and well nourished. A situational report on niUtlritioIl



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 7
has becn dra1lcd and Government is comnmittcd to devcloping a national poklcy on
I1utrition.
Strcngthening of the Womcn'% Burcau (WB)
CF.    The appointmcnt of a new Executive and Deputy Executive Director (in place
s.ince Sept. 1) seenms to hCve somewhat strengthcned the mnorale of the Bureau staff. They
.have plans for the reorganization and developtnent of the Wn along the lines of the newly
drafted national Policy for Advancement of Gambiani Womcn and thc plan1ned post-
13eijing activitie.s. Staffing the Burcau reimains problematic. T hc head of the M&li Unlit
lefl for anothcr job before the final evuluation of thc WID proJect, anud thc post has not yet
becen advcrtised. The research unit is still sorely ini necd of qualificd manpower. At
prcsent, the grade level for personnel of thc research unit is too low to recrnit adequately
qualificd inidividuals. The missioni recommends that CTovcriment consider a highcr gradc
to allow the recruitment of appropriately cqualified rescarchers and evaluators. All this
will requllire positions for qualified statV as well as adequatc recurrent cost support.
7.    In spite of the departure of the hieud of M&E, scverul of the remaining Bureau
staft played an active role in the final evaluation. Regional workshops on the National
Policy on Womeen took placc in JuIne and the national workslhop took placc in August.
Agriculture
8.    Tlie agricultural component continues to mainstream most womcn's field crop and
horticulturul activities. In Njawara, the mission learned that the WFP had given the
Womeet's ugriculture group two tractors wlhich werc used to assist in ricc field
rcclamation and were also rented out. The proceeds were being banked and would hc
used for reinvestmcnt und maintenance.
9.    7'he Food and Nutrition Unit. Since the last Supervision Mission (Junc 1997), thc
FNU conducted two training sessions o01 food prese-vation and processing as pllanned.
IThe first was for Subicct Mutter Specialists and the second for entrepreneurs and village
truiners.  lhe FNU is currently working witlh only 11 of 33 of the original entrepreneurs
idcntificd to participute in the ccreal processing enterprise proicct conducted in
collaboration with CGumbia Womeni's l;iane; Association (GAWFA). lhe m1ain reasoo
for the reductioni in thc number of women cntrepreneurs is thlat many of the womnci t'ce
serious constraints in azcquirinig working capital. ['hlis highlights a need to develop a
strategy for assisting the poorer womeni so that they, too, can participatc in incomec
eamring ventures.
0.   In an effort to reach more rural and noni litcrate women, I-NU is working on a
simple pictorial cookbook. This project is fiunded by the British Dfl) in collaborution
with Rose Clark of the Edinburgh Ccntrc for Tropical Forests. A second recipe hook on
the processing of fruits and vegctables is complete and ready to be published.
2



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 7
11.   The Agricultural Inputs Office.  lTe repaynent for the Privatc Dealcrs
Association (PDA) has improved sligltly, from an average of 54% over the last two years
to about 57% this year. The Agricultural Inputs Office (AIO) attributes the  poor
repayment to the relatively low levcl of supervision provided by the AIO, which is due to
the state of their vehicle.
12.   Thlc Department of State for Agriculturc has niot repaid the fertilizer redistributed
to the Gambia Cooperative IJnion ((GC'U) and Area Councils in 1996, as agreed in thie
World Bank Supervision Aidc-M6nioire of December 1996. Of the D1 ,736,210 worth of
fertilizer taken, only D263,328.41 has becn repaid, leaving Dl,472,881.59 outstaniding.
Repayment has been mostly by GCU, the Kerewan Area Counicil and the Brikaina Area
Council. This represents only 15% repayment and leaves the revolving fiuid seriously
depleted. The low rciniburscment is curious considering a D)70 deposit was required for
fertilizer purchases. Given that somC 10,200 bags of fertilizer were distributcd. The area
councils and GCIJ should have been ablc to repay at least D714,000.
13.  'Ihe mission recommends tllat Government either repay the outstanding balance
directly to 1hc A1( revolvinig und, as was originally agreed, or reimburse the amount in
kind. Trhe PCC agreed to pursue this issue with the relevant Secretaries of State, namely
Finance and Agriculture.
14.   The l*orticultural Unit. The horticultural unit hals produced an additional 400
hlorticultural manuals which will be distributed to extension staff from both GJovernment
and NCOs. Tlhe manual is receiving vei-y positive reviews by extension staff. At the
Pirang vegetable garden, the mission was infonned that the women hlad not only
increased their production but also established their own market distribution outlets for
their produce.  Women at working in the Cha Kunda garden have adapted new
technologies including composting, mulching, staggered planting and good spacing
practices. Unfortunately, women stated that marketing still poses problems for thcni.
15.   Savings Mobilization. Savingsi mobilization continued this year with 40 IIcw
groups accounts and 202 new individtial accounts opened bctween July 1996 and June
1997. The Banjul area has the highest number of new accounts--five group and 126
individual--followed by Westcrn Divisioni, North Banik Division, Upper River Division
and Lower River Division.
16.   GWFA reports a significant increase in loans to women's groups, from seven in
1995/96 to 44 in 1996/97. The avcragc loan size has also increased DI,096 to D2,320 per
group. Group lending is believed to be the best strategy for reaching the poorest women,
who normally would not be able to mcet the savings preconidition for borrowing. IhIC
predominant activity financed by GWFA is commerce, with 45.4% of money lent going
for this purpose. Agriculture follows closely behind, with 44.3% of the amount lent
designated for agricultural inputs, such as seeds, fertilizer and small implements. Thc
majority of loans for agriculture are givenl in the URD.
17.   Livestock. T his sub-componient will be evaluated by UNDP in January.



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 7
Infornmation, Education and Communication Component
18.  In the six months since the last supervisioni mission, the IEC team has complcted
anid consolidated the IEC achicvements ovcr the previouis six years. It has intensified
maintenance of video hall equipmcnt, providcd inanagemcint training for videVA hall
operators, continucd training of women in communication skills, in theater production
skills and in managemcnt of radio listening clubs, and has conducted monitoring and
evaluation activities. The construction of the two conmnunity radio stations in LBrikamu
and Farafenni and the training of radio broadcasters have also been completcd . IF'
activities carricd out includc video, radio and thcatcr productions on issucs such as
violence against women, thc cuivironmcut, family planniing, girls' education and femnalc
literacy, food processing aind prescrvation. and savings and credit managcment.
19.   As the project comes to an end, the achievements under the component are quitc
remarkablc both in quantity a nd quality. Thcsc include the cstablishment of videc) halls
in 30 villages and radio listeninig grroups in 10 villagcs (this activity started in the fifth
year of the project); the developiient of 200 discussional radio programs; 20 thcater
productions and 24 video productioins; trainiiig of 90 women leaders, 60 staff of the IEC'
units of line ministries, and 160 extension workers in communicationl skills; training of
40 women in theater production, and 60 cxtension workers in use of radio as a
development support tool.
20.   From a qualitative point of view, thc component has been effective in awareness
creation and in niainstreaming gender concerns into the TEC activities of line ministries.
'Tlhe IEC component has been very innovative. It has initegrated effectively modern media
(video, radio, cassettes) with more traditional methods of communication and promotcd a
two-way communication system in which thle bencficiaries arc not only receivers but
participate actively in message creatinMg, bringiing a wealth of knowledgc of their
environment. Popular theater and the local commnunicator strategy appear to be the most
popular methods of communication. Rural women have stated that only through popular
theater thcy have been able to speak their mind and address issues such as men's lack of
support for women's heavy workload, their neglect of responsibilities toward the filmily,
the effect of'male migration to urban areas on women. linally, JEC has contributed to the
spill over-effect of the WI!) project to noin-WID villages.
21.  It is hoped that the achievements of the project in the area of TFC will be
consolidated anid expanded unider thc UNDP-supported Strategy for Poverty Alleviationi
(NPAP), which has an importanit IEC component. The emphasis NPAP places on
participatory ways of communication has been inspired by the success of the IEC
component of the WID project.
4



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 7
Sldlls Development
22.   All main activities with the exceptioii of. the credit component lhave hcen
cWlopletcd. Silice the credit componenit has onily been operational for one year, tJlc ADI
agreed to extend the program to Dccexnber 1998 to allow it the chance to ncllicve the
original objectives. However, the denainid for credit for non-agricultural activities is
linited to the noni-dgricuilwtral season. In order to enable the credit programl to dishtbrse.
two options may be considered: (a) to cxpand thc program to women in iion-WIt
villagcs, and/or (b) extend the accessibility criteria to include agricultural-related
activities.
23.   Thlc mission visited a village womcn's group producing tie-dye materials anc
nieedlc craft items. The licad of the grou) had successfiully trained more than 60 women
in these cralls. lIowever, becauise of the large size of the group, profits were negligiblc
It was 1elt that it would have been imiore appropriate to have smnaller groups speciuliied II
several different types of craft.
NGO Fund
24.   Since June 1997, the projcct hais coinplcted finiancing the 13 projects approved i,
July 1996 as well as the other previously upproved projects. Out of the IJS$ 500,000
allocated for the component, about IJSS 480,000 has becn used to finance 68 projects
Ihe Funid has proveni to be a viablc amd critical mechanuisms for reaching poor womcn i
urban anid rural areac, particularly afler it was cxpanded in 1993 to allow for dlircLI
financiig of activities carried out by womiieni's groups. Tbc Fund has helped strcngtlIein
government and NGO collaboration and encouragcd the government to increasingly use
them as partners in its development efforts on work at the community level and cani thus
play an important role in mobilizing coimmunities. A number of new projects in tllc
social sector now have funds for direct finiacing of projects carried out by NGOs or
village-based groups.
25.   Based oni the final cvaluation, thc success rate of the projects fundcd unider the
NGO Fund is high: out of 68 projccts implemenited, only 5 were not successful, mainily
due to poor management. This positive result is to a large cxtent due to the thoroughnies
in which project werc appraised and supervised by a the l;und review conunittee whicii 1s
composed of representatives of government ag,encies, the NGO association TANGO anct
lic Womnen's Bureau, as well by thc support provided by extension agents in thc field
rhic provision of funds on a matchinlg grant basis contributcd to incrcase owniershilp.
participation and comnmitment by the beziceiciaries.
S



APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 7
Project Managemcnt
26.  'The mission congratulates the PMIJ for finally submitting the required finaliciai
audits on time aind for the improvements in its financial mnanagement. At prcscnt, all
undocumenited cxpenditure has either been reimbursed or documented.
27.   To enable the completion oi finial activities and tlhe payment of commitmlients, thc
Disbursement Unit of the Bunk agreed to mnake direct paymenits lor all cxpenditire
exceeding IJS$ 5,000 under the Norwcgian Trust lFund and expenditurc exceeding UJS$
10,000 under the IDA Credit. IDA also gave its clearance in principle for the crcdit to
finance Ihe final audit of the projcct at tun estimated cost of US$6,000 which is to he
completed by the auditors by March 31, 1998.
CLOSING/IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPOR'1'
28.  TIhc mission attended a two day workslhop to review and discuss the results of the
final evaluation and the Govcrnment's sectioin of the Implctnemetationi Completion Report
(ICR) with thc Componient Coordinators and Sub-Component Coordinators.
29.   T'he mission thanks the Govcrnment for the concise and tlioughtfid ICCR which
provided the basis for the workshop's discussions and assistcd the mission in the drafting
of the Bank's portion of the completion report. The mission basically agrees with the
content of the Government's ICR but tiotcd that a plan for ihe future operation of the
project is muissing.  The utility of developing such a plan was widcly questioned.
(iovernmient 1elt that while it might bc usefill to mention the aictions that it is taking to
ensure sustainability (e.g. increased financing for tlhe Women's B1ureau, creating staff
positions to replace consultants, conitinuinig somc activitics under other programs), an
implementation plan would serve little purpose.
30.   The mission appreciates the etilOrt givcn by thosc involved in producing tho filnl
cvaluation. However, the quality of the report sufrered from the early departure of thc
lead consultant which left the tcam to continuie with littlc guidanicc.  Whilc much
interesting information about tlle proicct is assembled in the draft evaluation report, the
findings are inconclusive regarding thc project's impact on women. The mission requests
that the final version be transmitted to ID)A for future refcrcnce.
31.   The mission prepared a rovugh draft of thc  aiank's portion of thie ICR and
discussed it wit-h the Implcmentation C'oordination Comnmittee and the Project
Coordination Comniittec. The comiennnts received were noted andi will be considered in
the finalisation of Ihe report.
6



APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 7
32.   In ciosing, thc mission wouxld like to express its sincerest appreciatiotn fior the
mnay cominited people with whom it had the plcasure to work over the years and for the
many things it learned from them.
Prepared in Banjul
Dccernbcr 12, 1997
For the World Bank Mission:                 For the project:
Rosemary  ellicw                            Sulayman, Samba
Mission Leader                               Permanent Secretary
Department of State for Health
7



APPENDIX B
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 2141 GM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(1990- 1997)
DECEMBER, 1997
COMPILED BY
PROJECT MANAGER
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEPARTMENT STATE FOR HEALTH, SOCIAL WELFARE
AND WOMEN'S AFFAIRS,
14 MARINA PARADE
BANJUL, THE GAMBIA



2                              APPENDIX B
CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
- Project Objectives
- Design
C. IMPLEMENTATIONSTRATEGY
D. PROJECT COORDINATION
i) Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
ii) ImplementationCoordinating Committee (ICC)
iii) Component Sub-Committees
iv) ProjectManagementUnit
E. OPERATION EXPERIENCE BY SECTOR
i) Agriculture
ii) Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
iii) Skills Development Component
iv) StrengtheningThe Women's Bureau and Council
v) Safe Motherhood and Family Planning (SM&FP)
vi) The WID/NGO Fund
F. LESSONS LEARNT
i) Donor Performance
ii) Borrower's Performance



A. INTRODUCTION
The severe economic and financial crisis in the latter part of the 1970's, resulting from a dramatic expansion
of public expenditures, inappropriate exchange rates and other pricing policies, and adverse external
factors, prompted the Government in 1985 to introduce a comprehensive economic reform program. The
situation was exacerbated by a high population growth rate. A major challenge then, to developingthe long
term productive potential of the economy and improving the welfare of The Gambian population was the
country's low level of human resource development. The Women In DevelopmentProject was conceived
of and designed, against this background, with the above challenge in mind.
As a result of the impact of the economic crisis of the 1980's coupled with the inappropriate, gender biased
policies and institutional arrangements, the needs and concerns of women were not adequately addressed.
In response there of, the Government, through an Act of Parliament, established a National Women's
Bureau and Council in 1980, charged with the responsibilityof advising government on matters concerning
women's issues. The National Women's Bureau and Council had since 1980 attempted to fulfill that
mandate, but were constrained by institutional barriers, policy deficiencies, negative socio-cultural
beliefs/practices, and not least inadequate resources.
In 1985, The International Women's Conference in Nairobi, Kenya called for a more comprehensive
approach to tackle women's issues and concerns. The launching of the Women In Development Project was
in part a response to the Nairobi Conference, and also a consequence of the earlier research endeavors by
the Women's Bureau and other sectoral agencies in which the following major constraints were identified.
limited access to productive resources, particularlyfertile land, credit, and other agricultural
inputs such as fertilizer and farm equipment;
*  relatively low levels of educational attainment and more limited training opportunitiesthan
their male counterparts;
*  the heavy burden of high fertility, exacerbated by poor maternal health and nutritional status;
*  prevailing negative and counter productive societal attitudes and cultural practices especially
those which pact on women's status and mobility;
*  women's low perception of themselves, combined with a lack of knowledge concerning both
their rights and the resources potentially available to them; and,
*  inappropriateand/or gender biased sectoral policies, and weak institutionalarrangements
unresponsive to strategic and long term needs of women.
The multi-sectoral, multi funded, free standing Women In Development Project was therefore conceived of
and launched, aimed at addressing the above identified constraints among others.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Women In DevelopmentProject was designed as a pilot, multi-sectoral, gender initiative geared
towards addressing some identified needs and concerns of Gambian women as at the time of project
preparation. The identified needs of women were sectorally based and the project components were of
necessity designed with a sectoral approach. The pilot project was implemented within a time frame of
seven (7) years, targeting about 25% of the country's total population. With an IDA investment layout of



2                                 APPENDIX B
about SDR 5,400,000 (approximatelyequivalentto $7,614,000),the projectwas implementedwith a variety
of strategies and interventions aimed at addressing the practical and strategic gender needs of women,
particularlythe rural women farmers.
The project had the following objectives as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report:
a)    improve women's productivity and income earning potential;
b)    improve women's welfare and status;
c)    strengthen government institutions to enable them to better deal with women's issues;
d)    contribute to bringing about a change in society's perception of the role of women; and,
e)    establish a partnership with local NGO's to enable them to expand their already successful
interventions beyond the areas in which they normally operate, targeting women and
children
These objectiveswere establishedwith a view to enablingthe governmentto better address the needs and
concerns of women within the framework of the existing sectoral institutional arrangements. The overall
goals and strategies are meant to strengthen and empowerthe existing institutional set ups to be more
responsive to the needs of women, as well as help in the emergence of a positive and a more gender
sensitive socio-cultural milieu through which Gambian women could find their niche and accordingly
contribute as equal partners in the development process.
PROJECT DESIGN
The design of IDA free standing WID Project in The Gambia was necessitated by the small project pipeline
as at that time and the consequent limited opportunityto introduce WID components in a number of sectors
in the short term. Furthermore, experience had shown that the component approach has not been fully
successful in some previous projects and thus negates any real attempts to mainstream gender issues in
regular national development efforts.
The design of the project facilitated the effective participation and support of the various implementing
agencies with minimum friction and/or competition. It also helped to foster and strengthen a culture of
partnership in the execution of gender based development initiatives. The growing sense of partnership and
joint implementationof developmentactivities, as fostered by the WID projectdesign, was in effect
manifested in the strengthening and sustenance of some institutional arrangements within the framework of
the project. The resultant experience from such institutional design experience would invariably be
valuable for future project preparations and implementation.
The multi sectoral nature of the WID Project arguably called for the free-standing design approach, which
in it self also required an enormous amount of coordination and consultation between and within the various
sectors on one hand, and between the government and the development partners on the other hand. The
coordination and consultation processes especially within the established institutional structures at national



3                                 APPENDIX B
level have been functional and relatively effective. However, the intra-component/internalDepartmental
Coordination and Consultation processes as well as Divisional, District and village level coordination and
consultations have not been ideally functional so as to ensure smooth project implementation and
sustenance. The latter levels of Coordination and consultation have not been well established and
institutionalizedas compared to the national level structures, neither have they been adequately engendered
to accommodate and facilitate the due involvement of women.
C. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
The project was implemented under the overall direction of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
comprising of the Permanent Secretaries of the various line Department of States responsible for the
Sectoral interventions, chaired by the Permanent Secretary responsible for Department of State for Health,
Social Welfare and Women's Affairs. The PCC as the overall policy arm of the project had proved quite
functional and appropriate, although difficult to convene and attract the participation of all committee
members. The routine administrationand management functions were vested on the Project Management
Unit (PMU) consistingof a ProjectManager, an Accountant,AdministrativeOfficerand a lean support
staff. Component specific activities were handled by Component Coordinators based within their respective
institutional structures. To ensure intra and inter-organizationalconsultation and partnership, sectoral sub-
committees were established, they provided the coordinators with the relevant support and information for
implementationof component activities. Similarly, the Component Coordinators met on monthly basis as a
committee (ICC) chaired by the Project Manager, at which relevant and emerging implementation
issues/constraintswere discussed and appropriatelyresolved. In terms of coordination and management of
plannedand on-goingprojectinterventions,the ICC was undoubtedlya useful institutionalframeworkto
achieving the desired results. It was a functional and convenient link for the PMU to the implementing
agencies.
The PMU was institutionally located on a neutral ground although answerable to the Permanent Secretary
responsible for Women's Affairs (who acted as chairperson to the PCC). The different components of the
project were implemented by the relevant line Ministries and Departments within the established project
framework.
Mid-way through the Project implementation (March 1994), the government and the World Bank
conducted a mid-term review of the project which led to some changes in the direction and focus of the
various project interventions. Furthermore,towards the end of the project, the components conducted series
of reviews on the specific intervention strategies aimed at assessing the effectiveness, impact and/or
appropriatenessofthe strategies in addressingthe practical and strategic genderneeds of women in the
Project areas. These specific strategy reviews coupled with the terminal project evaluation have greatly
assisted the sectoral agencies to take critical decisions on the replicability and sustenance of pilot WID
interventions. It has also made available to government and the development partners a critical mass of
literature and relevant statistics on the performance of the piloted strategies as well as the extent to which
the WID project realized its overall objectives.
The evaluation indicated that the overall objectives of the project were to a large extent realized albeit with
modificationsas requested by the mid-term review report. The major short comings were the inertia in the
post-harvesttechnology sub-sector, as well as the relative lack of integration of the different component



4                                 APPENDIX B
activities into the mainstream developmentprocess, which calls to question the continuityand sustainability
of some pilot strategies. The evaluation assessed the project achievements as well as impact, compared to
the objectives set out in the Staff Appraisal Report. This report would therefore focus on reviewing the
implementationstrategy, organizationaldesign, and lessons learnt with a view to assisting governmentand
donors in the design of future gender-orienteddevelopment initiatives in the country.
D. PROJECT COORDINATION
i) PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE (PCC)
The Project CoordinatingCommittee (PCC) as an umbrella organ of the project, was charged with the
responsibilityof policy formulation and review as well as the resolution of major implementationproblems.
It was also the PCC's mandate to review and approve the project's annual work plans and budgets and
indicate any corrective measure required for management consideration, following the review of the annual
and periodic progress reports. It was, at inception chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Office of the
President but later transferred to the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Vice President, until 1994 when the
portfolio of Women's Affairs was again relocated to the Department of State for Health, Social Welfare and
Women's Affairs. The membership of the Committee comprised of the Permanent Secretaries of Ministries
of Health, Social Welfare and Women's Affairs (as chairperson), Trade Industries and Employment,
Finance and Economic Affairs, Education, Information and Tourism, Agriculture, Executive Secretaries of
Women's Bureau and TANGO, and Project Manager of WIDP (as secretary). The PCC was to meet
regularly at least quarterly during the initial phase of the project.
The composition of the PCC in particular, and the functions assigned to it, in general, were a reflection of
the desire to ensure the involvement and participation of all key stake holders so as to maintain and achieve
the broadbased objectives of the project, and at the same time avoid marginalizing any individual
Ministry/sector. This was also thought to be significantin the area of subsequentmainstreamingof
Women's activities and attracting support for future initiatives.
With the exception of a few (Department of State for Education, Information and Tourism, and to some
extent Finance and Economic Affairs), the respective Permanent Secretaries consistently showed
enthusiasm in PCC deliberations and attended regular quarterly meetings. Decision making at the level of
PCC was therefore consultative in nature and indeed helpful to the PMU in terms of policy orientation and
direction.
Perhaps, one of the reasons for the infrequent nature of participation of the Ministries of Education, Finance
and Information and Tourism was due in part to the fact that the concerned Department of States did not
have a component or set of activities funded within the framework of the Project, which rendered their
participation comparatively insignificant (relative to their participation in other fora where they had vested
interest). However, their ineffective participation had, in some ways, reduced the PCC's capability to be
decisive in deliberations and optimally instrumental in problem solving.
The frequent PCC quarterly meetings helped the PMU to address and resolve implementation constraints on
timely bases, and was a constant assurance that various ministries were concerned and involved in the
execution of the multi sectoral WID project. PCC work plan/budget reviews also accorded the opportunity



5                                APPENDIX B
for realignmentof proposed activitiesto project goals and sectoral requirements. It further helped to
prepare the ground for the approval of requested Government Counterpart Funds (GLF).
ii) IMPLEMENTATION COORDINATING COMMITTEE (ICC)
The ImplementationCoordinatingCommittee (ICC) comprised of the Component Coordinators,the
Executive Secretary of TANGO, Project Manager, Project Accountant, and the PMU Administrative
Officer (as Secretary). From inception, it was chaired by the Project Manager until mid-way when the
Women's Bureau, Executive Secretary became Chairperson, for reasons of continuity and greater
involvementofthe Bureau in the implementationcoordinationefforts. This laterdecisionaugurswell with
the expected role of the Bureau after the phasing out of the project.
ICC met regularly at least monthly all throughoutthe project cycle. The meetings provided an opportunity
for sharing of vital information and implementationconstraintswithin sectors and thus enhanced a holistic
approach to problem solving at management level. It also encouraged and facilitatedjoint (inter sectoral)
planning, execution and funding of women's activities, especially for those crosscutting gender concerns
which do not readily lend themselves to any single sectoral claim. The joint planning, execution and
funding of activities by various components actually led to an efficient utilization of scarce resources and
optimal impact in the field. ICC, overtime, became one of the most practical and functional institutional set
ups of the project and eventually became a vital source of feedback from the field, for the Project
Management Unit.
On the other hand, the efficiency and stability of the ICC was limited by the rather high attrition rate
characterizedby the Civil Service especiallyafterthe 1994 change of government. The frequentchange of
Component Coordinators did not help in terms of consistency and effective follow-up. Significant
component specific implementation constraints which previously formed the focus of previous component,
in many instances,were eitherrelegatedto the peripheryor never followed-upto their logical conclusions.
Furthermore, information dissemination and sharing within components (and concerned line
Ministries/Departments)became sporadic and unsystematic, thus leading to uncertainty and confusion
within implementing agencies. This had also had the draw back of not being able to attract and sustain the
enthusiasm and support of extension systems, with regards to WID activities. To some extent, the
relationship between the coordinators and the Directors of executing agencies was not well defined and
understood to ensure optimal support from the latter.
ii) COMPONENT SUB-COMMITTEES
Each Component of the Project was to have a Component Sub-Committee or Advisory Committee,
consisting of the Sub-ComponentCoordinators and key staff of executing agencies and/or their Monitoring
and Evaluation personnel. The Advisory Committees were expected to be technically oriented in their
deliberationsand thereby liaise with the Coordinatorto arrive at appropriate and realistic Component
specific decisions. In practice however, the Component Advisory Committees met infrequently with the
exceptionof IEC and AgriculturalComponents. The envisagedopportunityto be derived from the
functioning of the Advisory Committee was therefore not fully explored, thus creating a communication
gap between the Component Coordinators and staff of the executing agencies, eventually led to the inertia
of the Advisory Committees themselves.



6                                 APPENDIX B
The Component Sub-Committees/AdvisoryCommittees in most parts, became active and were consulted
during annual workplan and budget developments,which had helped the processes. If it had been
consistently done, the institutional capacities of the concerned agencies (as anticipated) would have been
greatly enhanced, especially in the area of gender planning, budgeting and implementation. The situation
(in terms of building capacity of the institutions in the above areas) is far from the ideal.
iv) PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
The PMU was established as a Free Standing Management Unit, under the auspices of the PCC. The PMU
however was answerable to the Permanent Secretary responsible for the portfolio of Women's Affairs who
was the chairperson of PCC. This link and institutional arrangementwas necessary and effective for
practical considerations. It ensured the synchronization of the WID institutional arrangement with the
existing governmentstructures, without compromisingthe desired independenceand free functioning of the
PMU. It also facilitated the planning and receipt of GLF contributions on time, which became critical
saviors ofthe project in the advent of cash flow constraintswhich characterizedthe PMU for a number of
reasons.
The functions and institutional structure of the PMU were well defined and appropriate, in view of its
expected role and out put. However, by mid-term into project implementation, it was realized that the
Women's Bureau was not adequately involved and the project initiative could encounter sustainability and
follow-up problems when the PMU phases out. This realization necessitated some transfer of managerial
functions to the Women's Bureau so as to avert any post-implementationconstraints. The move also had
the opportunityto allow the managementof the Women's Bureau to try their hands in the coordinationand
management of the activities of various components, with a view to building capacity and retaining valuable
institutionalmemory. The gains in this direction were limited by virtue of the redeployment of the
Executive Secretary and Deputy Executive Secretary to ministerial positions following the 1994 change of
Government. On a related matter, the appointment of the then Executive Secretary as the first Project
Manager tantamounts to undermining the Women's Bureau Management capabilities in favor of the project.
This appointment coupled up with the latter redeploymentof Women's Bureau's management staff,
cumulatively weakened the Bureau and posed considerable demands on the PMU staff time and resources.
The Project had three Project Managers, five Permanent Secretaries (as PCC Chairmen), six Ministers of
Women's Affairs, and three IDA Task Managers during the entire project cycle. It also had three Deputy
Project Managers (two of which were expatriate staff). As of June 1994 there was no Deputy Project
Manager. The hire of an expatriate Deputy Project Manager was an after thought and thus not considered in
the SAR. The decision had considerable cost implementationsfor the PMU budget and led to significant
over expenditures and reallocation of resources to accommodate the additional staff. It did not also help the
borrower in terms of national capacity building and value for money.
The PMU Management crisis of 1993 created a lull in the implementation of planned activities as well as
eroded the confidence and trust bestowed on the management. Whilst these effects were short lived, it led
to a complete change of management staff. The most stable period was the last half of the project when
management stabilized with the same Project Manager, Accountant, the same parent Department of State
(Department of State for Health, Social Welfare and Women's Affairs) and IDA Task Manager. This



7                                APPENDIX B
coincided also with the mid-term evaluation and the need to implement several identified project areas to be
addressed which were not hitherto in the Staff Appraisal Report. The realignment and incorporation of
additional activities helped to make the project more responsive to emerging gender needs as at the time.
E. OPERATION EXPERIENCE BY SECTOR
i) AGRICULTURE
The implementation of planned activities within the framework of the Agricultural Component have
substantially increased the agricultural sectors capacity to appropriately respond to women's agricultural
needs/concerns. The sector has had considerable impact in the lives of women especially in the areas of
increasingtheir productivity; providing required skills/knowledge; improving the attitude and quality of
extension staff support (although much less the quantity of female extensionists); and providing farm inputs
and implements within a framework which is less bureaucratic, less cumbersome and more gender
sensitive. In addition, the project had enhanced the reorientation of the agricultural staff and structure to be
able to take due cognizance of gender needs/concerns in their duties/strategies.
The direct involvement and interference of the government in the management of the project resources
within the framework of the Agricultural Inputs Office Sub-Component, posed serious challenges to the
continuity and sustainabilityofthe strategy. The consequencesofsome ofthese interferenceswere in direct
contrast to the operational objectives of the AIO sub-component and disruptive to the attainment of desired
project goals.
The withdrawal of UNIFEM's pledge for the support of the small scale post harvest technology sub-
component severely derailed the agricultural component and denied it from tapping.the synergistic effect
anticipated from the sector. The non-implementationof this sub-component left a vacuum and an
unfulfilledprojectgoal. The need for appropriatepost-harvesttechnology interventionis still manifestedin
the field and continued to be a source of concern for the majority of rural Gambian women.
The planning, implementation and management of sectoral based gender projects within the horticultural,
livestock and agricultural extension sub-sectors had reached an appreciable level of satisfaction and
maturity. It however, would require consolidation and eventual graduation into a more broadbased and
field driven approach, whereby the central level would only be required to give back up support,
coordination and monitoring.
ii) INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
The IEC activities were cross cutting in nature and support service oriented. The sector has had remarkable
success and significant impact thanks to the fluidity of the design, the personal management style/capability
of the coordinator, and the series of consultancy inputs at the initial stage of the project cycle. The later had
helped to clarify the direction, strategies and management procedures of the component at a very timely
stage of the project phase.
IEC interventions and strategies have evidently been quite relevant and appropriate to the sectoral
information, education and communication needs of the implementing agencies as testified by the



8                                 APPENDIX B
enthusiasm of the staff in IEC programs, as well as the high level of replication of project activities in
implementingagencies programs. Of recent the newly emerging projects (SPACO, UNFPA project, etc)
have tended to heavily borrow from the experience gained by the WID IEC strategies. There appeared to
have been a reawakeningto the relevance and need for IEC support in development efforts, much of which
was facilitated by the WID initiative.
The internal strategy reviews done by the IEC Component revealed that the women (major recipients of IEC
packages) have had considerable benefits from the various strategies ranging from less wife battering
(increased dialogue), improved knowledge and practice of childcare, better and safer motherhood, improved
entrepreneurial skills, to a higher sense of self worth and a clearer image and potential of the role of
women in national socio-economicdevelopment.
Most importantly, the interventionsexecuted within the sector have cumulatively led to a heightened and
dynamic national debate/rethinkingon the role, status and plight of women in the society. It was gratifying
to note that topical issues/agenda in the national television, radio stations, as well as mosques and other fora
were focused on gender issues/concernswhich could not have been previouslypossible. This was
complemented by the implementation of other strategies by LEC which enabled women to be in control of
vital communication channels/media, thus setting the communication agenda in their respective
communities. The village video halls, the FM community radios, the theater groups, etc. were all valuable
in this regard. Undoubtedly, the actual extension support to the above referenced IEC strategies left much
to be desired and would required serious and systematic efforts in future project interventions.
iii) SKILLS DEVELOPMENTCOMPONENT
Skills Development Component has had a late start unlike the other WIDP Components, largely due to the
late fulfillment of the credit conditions. This was aggravated by the delayed finalization and recruitment of
the required TA's, coupled with the internal management problems of the component. The Skills
DevelopmentComponent during its life time has four component coordinators, and two ADB Task
Managers.
The component had installed literacy classes in the 125 selected project villages and similarly conducted
numerous skills training programs. The literacy classes started well and attracted enthusiasm and high level
of attendance, however, the classes were reduced to half their sizes by the end. Various reasons were
responsible for this low turn over such as the absence of the anticipated small scale credit within the
programs, the tim ing of the classes, teacher absenteeism, poor/inadequate supervision and follow-up, etc.
Some of the literacy participants have attained an impressive level of literacy and would require a strong
post literacy support service to avoid them from relapsing into illiteracy.
The Credit scheme also took offthe ground, but barely seven (7) months in operation. The activities of the
scheme are too early to measure in terms of impact and effects, although the recovery rate is impressive and
the groups have expressed satisfactionon the credit program. The pilot Skills DevelopmentCredit Scheme
was initiated with a savings dimension and a desire to adopt a much effective decentralizedcredit
managementmechanism. These would require future support and constant monitoring.



9                                APPENDIX B
The institutional support efforts of the component have had remarkable impact on the Department of
Community Development but to a lesser extent on the Non Formal Education Department. The former
department is now in a better position to support and implement gender based development initiatives, and
has a lot of potential and comparative advantage to this effect.
iv) STRENGTHENINGOF THE WOMEN'S BUREAU AND COUNCIL
As was indicated above, the appointment of the then Executive Secretary as the first Project Manager,
coupled with the subsequent redeployment of the Executive and Deputy Executive Secretaries into
Ministerial positions, did not help the'strengtheningof the managerial and administrative capabilities of the
Women's Bureau. Similarly, the premature reshuffling of the National Women's Council in 1995, and the
absence of relevant and appropriateNational Gender Policy and Women's Council Act further hindered the
growth and development of the Bureau and Council. All these have had adverse implications for the project
efforts in enhancing the development and dynamism of the Women's Bureau and Council. These were
further compounded by the inadequacy of funding to the Bureau and Council largely as a result of the
untimely withdrawal of the donor who had pledged to provide funds for the Strengthening of the Bureau
and Council Component of the Project. The last minute withdrawal of UNIFEM created a funding gap for
the projectand consequentlyhindered the effectivetranslation of planned objectives into concrete actions
(especially for the Bureau and the post harvest technology sub-sectors).
The provision of a new and spacious Head Quarters Building, trekking vehicles/motorbicycles,basic office
equipment and staff training programs have undoubtedly enhanced the Bureau staff morale, public image
and institutionalcapacityto respondto emerginggenderconcems. The recruitmentofthe Executive
Director and Deputy Executive Director (albeit considerablydelayed), have provided additional impetus to
the Bureau/Council, as well as became good sources of hope and inspiration. With the leadership vacuum
almost filled, the Council/Bureauat the later part of the project cycle exhibited positive signs of vibrancy,
dynamism and direction.
The developmentof the long awaited National Gender Policy and the review of the 1987 National
Women's Bureau/CouncilAct, had been supported and facilitatedby the project. These policy instruments
were nearing finalization by end of 1997 and would hopefully be adopted in early 1998. What would be
critically essential and required are the implementation, periodic monitoring and coordination of the
activities called for by the policy and ACT. The National Women's Bureau and Council have crucial roles
to perform in these but do not currently have the required staff complement, resources, and institutional
linkages to enable them to live up to expectations.
The Bureau and Council have over the years evolved to become national institutions with defined gender
oriented mandates. The current institutionalniches created for them as well as the prevailingnational
development approaches, require that the Bureau/Council be responsive to the dynamic and ever increasing
needs of women and children. However, the WID project design fell short of creating such an enabling
environment for the Bureau/Council. Several requests reflective of the practical and/or strategic needs of
women (addressing post-harvesttechnology needs, legal/administrativereforms, training, etc.) were never
adequately addressed by the Bureau within the framework of the project.



10                               APPENDIX B
v) SAFE MOTHERHOOD AND FAMILY PLANNING (SM&FP)
The Safe Motherhood and Family Planning Component (SM&FP) had piloted several strategies in the
health sector, and recorded significantresults in most of the activities. The mainstream health sector as well
as other development partners and NGOs have already commenced replicating some of the strategies such
as the baby friendly community initiative, community based contraceptive distribution, kabilo concept
initiative,just to name a few. A steady and dynamic partnership was established and maintained with a
pool ofNGOs with a health agenda, and the resultantpartnershipexperiencewas quite useful and practical
for future project considerations.
The current restructuring and expansion of the health administrative system with the Department of Health
Servicescoupled with the prospects for new health-orientedprojects, offer very encouragingopportunities
for the consolidation of the gains so far achieved as well as the subsequent replication of some of the proven
strategies of the SM&FP component. To this effect, the new IDA funded participatoryHealth Population
and Nutrition project had considered some elements of the WIDP project for continuation and
consolidation.
Admittedly, the animal drawn cart ambulance pilot strategy and to some extent the radio communication net
work pilot have had less impressive results, and attracted considerable criticism and objections. The two
pilot strategies both lacked the desired interphase at Divisional and village levels and consequently suffered
from inadequate care and maintenance. They however, offer valuable learning experiences and basis for
future perfection.
vi) THE WID/NGO FUND
The creation of a fund for the NGOs and Community based organizations to access development resources
in partnership with the project was a timely and thoughtful addition to the WID project design. It allowed
for the identification and implementation of small scale development initiatives by CBOs and/or NGOs in
direct consultationwith the beneficiarygroups. The process made it possible for the project to address a
wide range of community projects within a systematic framework which could not have been possible
without the partnership approach. A total of seventy projects were supported and financed within the
WID/NGO Fund component.
The experience learnt from this sector was encouraging and had compelled the government to attempt to
explore the possibility of securing additional funds for the continued operation of the fund. The WID/NGO
fund approach had also immensely contributed to building local capacity and self confidence of the
indigenousNGOs and CBOs alike. The multi disciplinarynature ofthe fund managementcommittee
backed by the consistent enthusiasm of TANGO in the affairs of the fund, were indeed essential ingredients
for the operational efficiency of the initiative and would be worth maintaining.
F. LESSONS LEARNT
The experiences and lessons learnt from the WID project are summarized below and categorized into two
sections:



11                               APPENDIX B
i)  DONOR PERFORMANCE
The multi donor financing arrangementwithin the project was an ideal approach which accorded the
opportunityto each development partner to concentrate on specific areas of interest and expertise. It made
it possible to address a multi-sectoral gender initiative within a comprehensive framework which enhanced
complementarityand optimal resource utilization.
Regarding individual donor performance in terms of project supervision, monitoring and implementation
support, IDA and the Norwegians had greatly tried to make frequent supervision visits during the project
cycle. The quality and frequency of the supervision visits were appreciable and indeed helpful. However,
the frequency of the visits could be improved. Furthermore,a possibilityforPMU visits/consultationsto
Washington/Dakarwould be helpful and desirous in future projects.
On a different but related aspect of donor performance, the area of inter donor collaborationand
consultationwas found much wanting and deficient. The major donors (IDA, ADB, UNDP and Norwegian
Government) have had very little consultations and collaboration, amidst several attempts to that effect.
Critical stages of project implementation were reviewed and major decisions made on individual donor
basis which invariably impacted on other project areas funded by other donors. A glaring example was the
mid-term review and its attendant policy decisions reached without due donor consultation/collaboration.
This is another area which requires serious rethinking in future project efforts.
Finally, the IDA Disbursement section had on several occasions delayed the pace of project implementation
due to late processing of submitted SOEs and/or other payment requests. In the same vein, the
Disbursement section's reluctance to increase the permissible limit of the Norwegian special account, not
withstanding the support of the Task Manager and borrower, considerably limited the project's ability to
accommodate the workplan scheduled for the concerned component. This resulted in a comparatively low
level of disbursementrelative to the Norwegian Grant, which could be erroneously interpreted as the
borrower's inability to absorb the approved Grant. A well defined and more flexible mechanisms are
required by IDA to avert similar consequences in future project designs.
ii) BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The government had consistently demonstrated its commitment and concern for the project from inception
to project closure. This became even more evident and practical during certain critical periods of the
project such as the period July-December 1994 (The Military takeover) and in 1995/96 when IDA
disbursementwas suspended. The timely disbursementof GLF and attendant administrativesupportwere
truly valuable and demonstrative of government commitment. Within the project framework, and in
collaboration with other development partners, a National Gender Policy was developed and the National
Women's Council Act of 1987 was also reviewed and updated. Both policy instruments will invariably help
provide a clearer direction and focus for future gender oriented initiatives. The Government was in both
cases adequately supportive and concerned.



12                                APPENDIX B
The lessons learnt from the project and essential for future design and consideration could be summarized
as thus:
a) The establishment of a flexible and responsive funding arrangement such as the WID/NGO Fund
was instrumental to helping the project to address a variety of local needs without additional administrative
costs. The structure through which the WID/NGO fund was executed, was by and large stable and should
be utilized. The need for a continuity of the WIDINGO fund as a way of respondingto the small but
relevant needs to women is still evident and requires support. The emergent sense of partnership and
collaboration between NGOs and CBOs on one hand and the government on the other hand, was insightful
and should be a source of inspiration for future development efforts in the country.
b) The anticipated extension support and back up required for some WID project strategies (video halls,
local communicators, literacy classes, etc.) were inadequate and sporadic in nature. The intra component
communication flow as well as the linkage with the executing agencies extension networks were
ineffective, to allow for optimal extension support and back up. Subsequent project designs should of
necessityconsiderthe issue of extension support and rethinkingof mechanismsto ensure the maximization
of existing extension resources.
c) The formulation of a national gender policy to provide strategic direction for future efforts was
timely and appropriate. However, the policy would need to be periodicallyreviewed and aligned,
monitored and evaluated, so as to retain its relevance and usefulness. The Women's Bureau has
undoubtedly a lead role in this process and would required support and partnership to achieve desired
results. The Bureau's role cannot be under emphasized in a gender oriented project and it is only a
capacitized Bureau which could discharge the expected functions adequately.
d) The Library, Documentation and Research and Monitoring Unit of the Bureau, not withstanding the
crucial roles expected of it was not adequately functional. This dysfunctionalityof the unit hindered the
availability of and timely access to vital information/datarequired for objective management decision
making. It also denied the project of the opportunityto constantly review individual sectoral performances
during project implementation. This area of the Bureau would merit particular attention and consideration
for future efforts in the sector.
e) The program content of future project designs should also be so balanced to ensure that other critical
areas of concern to women are accordingly incorporated. The non implementationof the activities
envisaged under the post-harvesttechnology sector had affected the impact of the project on the lives of the
beneficiarywomen. Women in the project areas as well as those outside of the project areas consistently
lamented for help in this sector. There is an urgent need for intervention in the area of post-harvest
technology sub-sector, of course through a gender perspective.
Similarly, other areas not adequately addressed within the framework of the WID project relating to the
strategic gender needs of women (such as establishment of a resource center for legal aid and counseling,
operations research in gender relations and household concerns, provision of a multi purpose training
facility at the Women's Bureau for use by women, women's groups and/or NGOs with gender agenda,
strengtheningof local government institutionswith a view to making them more responsiveto gender
needs, etc.) would need future consideration.



IBRD 22203
TorNado,  TO                                                        IO*                                                  0N0   pOao 0000 omoa,oU by                   /        N.        MAURITANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AU   ITAN   
S  E  N  F  G  A        L                                                          AOUOOOAOOO065000000               GM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIZ  MALIEN   GA 
-ad of   Th,.000Ao  B.. Or         H.E
--  -   a  N.                                                                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,UINERRA
Ni-r d. Rip                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBEILEONEIR
iso. Err,  . ~~~~~~~~~~000.0       . ~~~~Atloot                                                                                             StCUTE
M.dUoi-Ea. .-
-.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sobok                                                                        N        ,M   AA                                 T   $S
~N:  Too,,.   ft   A  ~   gsy,'   / DookookoB--                                       oSkulikubd-  -----
E  R  R~~~~~~~~~Lr6I I                                                                           0                  $LA,                                       --                              -          oj
0J-..                                                                                                                -...1i/E                                                                                      , Ko
K~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                      THE GAMBIA
.                        .              .              .             
1                 ~~~Nali-oal oapilal                                                                                                   Valiogar
Distior haadquarlers
*     Division   hoadquarior
OILAOOO  U        T        0          00         00        5
E               N           FE                    A           L
To z                                               orjU---IS                                                                                                                  og-/00-                                                                                                 A
FEBEUAEY 1990



13                                 APPENDIX B
f) The village based (beneficiary driven) local institutions and structures through which the project was
executed have had significant improvements and attained higher levels of operational efficiency. However,
the evolution of these institutions/structureshad reached a stage within their logical cycles which would
require further support and backup of a different kind. This would ensure the progressive maturing of the
local structures/institutionsinto self regulating and independently functioning entities. Future project
designs should focus considerable emphasis on this aspect of local institutional building and strengthening.
g) The use of traditional media (popular theater, songs, local communicators, etc.), within the lEC
program package were found to be cost effective, appropriate and easily acceptable to the extension
systems and the rural beneficiariesalike. These had immensely helped to extend the reach of IEC coverage
and proved quite effective in the dissemination of extension messages to desired audiences. Future
program designs should of necessity consider promoting and strengthening these traditional media channels
as well as research into ways of ascertainingtheir characteristicsand operational efficiencies.
h) In retrospect, a free standing, multi sectoral management approach as was in the WID project was a
helpful and appropriatedesign for a gender oriented project. It accorded the PMU with flexibilityand
relative independence necessary for obtaining desired inputs/collaborationof all sectoral agencies and at
the same time retain its focus and complementarityto current national gender concerns. Such a design
should be maintained and further improved especially in terms of relationshipsand linkages with the
national machinery responsible for Women's Affair's (Women's Bureau and TANGO). In this direction, a
well defined and unambiguousrelationshippat+ern and coordinationmechanismswould be required so as to
facilitate smooth and complementarypartnershlp in the sector. This considerationwould also help avoid
over shadowing (instead of strengthening)the Bureau and possible rivalry and duplication.
i) Finally, the WID project adopted a WID approach which was instrumental in addressing the practical
needs of women as were identified during project preparation. However, during actual project
implementation, a mixture of WID and gender approaches were utilized. The latter whilst instrumental in
addressingpractical gender needs also allows for the implementationof activities geared towardsthe
strategic gender needs of women. There is a growing tendency both of national and international levels to
graduate from WID to gender approach for very logical reasons. Similarly, there is need to redirect future
project designs to take cognizance of the plausible appropriate gender approach.



