Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23373
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23790)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR17.60 MILLION
(US$24 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI
FOR A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 19, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/26/2001)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK)
MWK I = US$ 0.02
US$ I = MWK 63.25
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCC                  Blantyre City Council
BMLP                 Building Materials Loan Program
CDP                  Council Developmeit Plans
CSP                  Country Strategy Paper
CTA                  Chief Technical Advisor
DEVPOL        -      Statement pf Development Policies
DFLA          -      Development Fund for Local Authorities
DLV           -      Department of Lands and Valuation
DTCP          -      Department of Town and Country Planning
ECMAC         -      Entrepreneurship and Capital Market Adjustrnent Program
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOM           -      Government of Malawi
-1RID          -      Human Resource and Institutional Development Project
ICB           -      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      Intemational Development Association
LAs           -      Local Authorities
LASC          -      Local Authorities Service Commission
LCC           -      Lilongwe City Council
LGDP          -      Local Government Development Project
LGSC          -      Local Government Service Commission
LCS           -      Local Competitive Bidding
MHC           -      Malawi Housing Corporation
MIM           -      Malawi Institute of Management
MLG           -      Ministry of Local Government
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOW           -      Ministry of Works
NDF           -      Nordic Development Fund
ODA           -      Overseas Development Administration
OPC           -      Office of the President and Cabinet
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
PSIP          -      Public Sector Investment Program
SCDP          -      Secondary Centers Development Program
SRP           -      Special Rating Procedure
STC           -      Staff Training College (Mpemba)
TA            -      Technical Assistance
THAs          -      Traditional Housing Areas
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Developmnent
WTP           -      Willingness to Pay
ZMC           -      Zomba Municipal Council
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:  Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alan G. Carroll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVT.
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 19
6. Sustainability                                                                     23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      27
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    30
9. Partner Comments                                                                   31
10. Additional Information                                                            32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001636                                       Project Name: LOCAL GOVT.
Team Leader: Alan G. Carroll                              TL Unit: AFTUI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: LOCAL GOVT.                                    L/C/TFNumber: IDA-23790
Country/Department: MALAWI                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: UM -Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/15/1989                              Effective:  10/01/1992        12/22/1992
Appraisal:  05/14/1991                                MTR:                       05/15/1996
Approval:  06/04/1992                               Closing:  12/31/1999         06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI/MIN. LOC. GOVT.
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:      Darius Mans                               Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:       Jeffrey Racki                             Isaac Sam
Team Leader at ICR:  Alan G. Carroll                            Anders G. Zeijlon
ICR Primary.4uthor:   Colleen Butcher
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Yes, rated at risk in F1'1998 as achiev-emenit of DO was rated unsatisfactory (PSR Seq. Nos. 17 and 18).
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were stated as follows:
"The main objective is to put in place a combination of related actions that will collectively
bring about a stronger, more effective system of local government in Malawi. These are



building blocks for enhancing the financial, managerial, and technical capacity of the local
government system to (a) provide and maintain essential municipal services and infrastructure at
a level consistent with affordability and with the size and growth rate of the population; and (b)
finance those endeavors mainly with locally generatedfunds, while improving thefinancial
management of such funds. Particular emphasis is on strengthening local authorities' ability to
provide serviced land, sanitation, road maintenance and certain commercial services, i.e.,
markets, for the growing urban population. "
The SAR recognized that the building of "an effective operating local government system is a
long-term (10 - 15 year) process" (SAR, p.16).
The project identification process (which brought together the MLG, local authorities, and
representatives from other relevant GOM ministries) resulted in a consensus that the project
should contain three major components: an overhaul of the local government system; institutional
strengthening of the MLG and the largest local authorities; and provision of inputs to ensure the
operations and maintenance of existing infrastructure investments. The project objectives respond
to these priorities in a clear way.
The Bank's assistance strategy in Malawi in the early 1990s was to pursue with the government
"the process of further liberalization and opening of the economy in order to boost economic
growth and alleviate poverty" (SAR, p. 1). The objective of creating strong, effective local
governments would contribute to the essential conditions for making towns and cities more
productive, for extending services to the lower income groups, and providing tangible public
health benefits through improved environmental sanitation. The project objectives also
complemented the activities of a number of donors which were "supporting Government efforts
by providing technical assistance, training and infrastructure in pilot towns" (SAR, p. 1 7).
By today's standards of practice in the Bank, the project's objectives were not formulated clearly
enough and were too ambitious. In particular, the objectives should have reflected a more
realistic vision of what one project could accomplish, given the inherently risky nature of
governance reforms, the severely limited implementation capacity of both the central and local
governments, and the long time horizon needed for local governments to achieve the capacity to
provide and maintain essential services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised during implementation
3.3 Original Components:
The following are the components description summaries as stated in the SAR:
(a)   Policy Reform Component (US$2.787 m.): "Modifications to the legal and institutional
framework for the local Government system will be carried out through a series of policy studies,
reform advocacy workshops, and the implementation of associated action plans. This will be
organized in four areas (i) legislation review, (ii) duties and responsibilities of central and local
- 2 -



government agencies, (iii) revenue mobilization and financial management, and (iv) human
resources."
(b)   Institutional Strengthening (US$9.672 ni.): "(i) modifications in MLG's organization
and procedures supported by the provision of vehicles, equipment and other incremental operating
costs related to the project for MLG and selected councils; (ii) training for 'MLG and councils
staff at local training institutions; (iii) specialized assistance to help reorganize the MLG and
implement a phased decentralization of certain MLG functions; (iv) establishment of improved
intemal operating procedures; and (v) building technical capacity within MLG divisions."
(c)   Provision of Infrastructure and Services (US$17.168 m): "(i) plant, vehicles,
equipment and services required to rehabilitate and improve maintenance of existing infrastructure
and other assets in nine local councils, and (ii) new infrastructure investments in Lilongwe,
Blantyre and Zomba. Funds for infrastructure investments, vehicles and equipment will be on-lent
to the participating local authorities and the repayments will be re-lent to other local authorities
able to carry out essential infrastructure and services through a Development Fund for Local
Authorities (DFLA)."
The design of the three components was clearly linked to the objectives described in 3.1 above.
The credit provided financial support for local governments to respond to immediate maintenance
needs (through the procurement of municipal vehicles and equipment) as well as to prepare
infrastructure investment plans (Council Development Plans), all within the larger context of
organizational restructuring, training of key staff, establishing improved financial management
systems within the local governments, and carrying out legislative and policy reviews and
amendments. The SAR elaborated a timetable for adoption of the recommendations of the studies
and workshops during implementation (SAR, Annex 2).
The SAR (p.16) specifically noted that the project design took into account the following lessons
derived from the Infrastructure Project (7551 - MAI) and the First Urban Project (5200 - MAI):
*     The need for simplified implementation structures.
*     Enhanced training, technical assistance, and studies are needed to address weakening
implementation capacity in Malawi, especially for cost recovery, institutional development, and
maintenance.
A major omission from the project design was an explicit monitoring mechanism for assessing the
impact of the policy and institutional strengthening components and the perfornance of the local
authorities.
I
The participating local authorities were the City Assemblies of Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu; the Municipality
of Zomba; the Town Assemblies of Salima and Luchenza; and the District Assemblies of M'Mbelwa, Ntcheu and
Nsanje.
-3-



In light of the assessment of objectives in 3.1 above, the project could have been designed more
modestly, to initially address the gaps in the policy framework, especially the lack of an
intergovernmental system of fiscal and human resource policies. This could have been done, for
example, by focusing the project as a pilot and/or a technical assistance operation precedent to
further stages of support.
3.4 Revised Components:
A number of amendments were made to the Credit Agreement at various times to try to improve
the implementation of the project. The amendments did not, overall, address the fundamental
problems that emerged during implementation (see Section 5 below).
Following discussions between GOM and the Bank, Section 3.01(c) of the Credit Agreement was
amended on March 11, 1994 to incorporate an element of grant funding in the on-lending
arrangements to the local authorities made through the DFLA. Increased grant proportions were
approved to individual local authorities based on the proportion of non-revenue-generating
activities to revenue-generating ones. Approval of the grants were to take into account: (i) the
LAs' financial position and projections, in particular their level of existing indebtedness and
ability to service new debt; and (ii) the ratio of the activities to be carried out with high social
content and poverty alleviation potential compared to those which more readily could earn a
commercial return, i.e. to provide support to sub-projects that might have a high social need, but
difficult to justify on a commercial basis. The amendment allowed for 90% of the amount passed
on to the smaller Town and District Assemblies to be grants and 35% to 50% in the case of the
larger Urban Assemblies.
On July 8, 1994, Schedule 2, Part C(2) of the Credit was further amended to incorporate new
sub-projects for Blantyre City Assembly.
On June 26, 1995, Schedule 5, para. I(c) was amended to increase the authorized allocation in the
Special Account from $750,000 to $1,250,000.
The on-lending arrangements (under Category 1, Part C) were once again amended on August 2,
1996, increasing the grant proportion of allocated funds for the four larger participating local
authorities (Lilongwe, Blantyre, Mzuzu and Zomba) to 80 percent. The amendment was
introduced so as to improve the cash flow situations of the local authorities (from the savings in
interest that would be realized), whilst at the same time continuing to seek an element of cost
recovery from the local authorities and provide an incentive to them to prioritize investrnents in
sub-projects which could show a positive rate of return.
On October 22, 1996, following agreements reached with the Government during the Mid-Term
Review, Schedule I of the Credit Agreement was amended to reallocate funds between categories
so as to accommodate new works (principally in Blantyre) and increase the allocation for studies
and consultants' services, to provide greater support to the policy reform component (which had
been making slow progress). The amount for Incremental and Operating Expenditures (the PCU
operating costs) was also increased through raising the IDA financing share from 35 percent to 70
percent.
-4 -



In March 2000 the cost of the Infrastructure and Services component was reduced to $13.3 m.,
and the expected project costs reduced accordingly from the previous $36.3 m. to $28.0 m. The
original credit amount of SDR17.6m remained unchanged. (PSR Seq. No. 22). The reduced
component amount was based on a revised disbursement forecast for GOM to complete the
construction of ongoing and agreed upon new sub-projects and the agreed technical assistance to
support the government's decentralization policy.
In July 1999, the DFLA Board resolved to capitalize the accrued and still unpaid interest on local
authorities' outstanding loans, add this to the outstanding principal, and refinance the total
outstanding debt at a new fixed interest rate of 15 percent (well below the Reserve Bank rate at
the time of 46 percent). The World Bank judged that it was not worthwhile to amend the Credit
Agreement (Section 3.01 (c)) once again to reflect the new terms and conditions adopted by the
DFLA Board, but on April 19, 2000, the credit was amended simply to make future allocations to
the Assemblies under Part C as 100% grants (up to $1.0m), effectively bypassing the DFLA
altogether. At the same time, the credit closing date was extended from December 31, 1999 to
June 30, 2001 so that outstanding sub-projects could be completed (most works sub-projects had
contract completion dates of six months). Due to the slow implementation and the cancellation of
all but one of the remaining site and service sub-projects under the project (because of poor cost
recovery efforts on completed schemes), an amount of SDR 500,000 was also cancelled from the
credit.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's Quality at Entry is assessed on the basis of (a) the consistency of objectives with the
CAS and government priorities, (b) the Bank's safeguard policies, (c) the quality of the design,
and (d) the reasonableness of assumptions regarding relevant external risks. The results are
mixed, but on balance the quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory.
The project's objectives were consistent with the CAS and government priorities. The SAR (pp.
4-5) set the context within which the project objectives were prepared and stressed that the
reforms envisaged for the local government sector were part of a lengthy and complex process.
The need for strengthened local governments was clearly articulated with regard to reducing
central fiscal demands as well as building long-term sustainability in the provision and
maintenance of infrastructure through accountable and efficient local governments. Furthermore,
the objectives fitted in well with the government's development policy which foresaw the local
government system benefiting from a careful decentralization of both responsibilities and
authority.
The project supported the Bank's strategy for Malawi in (i) addressing human resource
development and institutional capacity building through a number of categories under the LGDP
Credit; (ii) developing strong coordination with other donors, with the LGDP explicitly
recognizing the role of bilateral grant support in complementary policy reforms and provision of
local government technical advisors; (iii) acting as a key catalyst to mobilize technical and
financial assistance to support improved public sector management performance at the
sub-national level; and (iv) targeting some of the project's infrastructure investments to lower
income groups (sites and services, environmental sanitation).
- 5 -



The environmental impact of the project was assessed during appraisal and rated as "C", i.e. that
the project would lead to significant improvement and tangible benefits to the environment in the
Assembly areas through the provision of potable water, additional latrines, storm water drainage,
improved solid waste management, improvements to and around existing markets, and road
maintenance. There was no involuntary resettlement envisaged under the project (although
subsequently during implementation, 13 households and 16 crop plots had to be compensated and
relocated within the Chilimoni site and service area). No significant environmental or social issues
arose during project implementation.
The SAR identified the following risks: (i) the central government's willingness to implement the
action plans to be produced under the policy component in a timely manner; (ii) the ability of the
institutionally weak Ministry of Local Government and local authorities to implement such
actions; and (iii) the pace at which the entrenched control behavior of the central government
could be modified to create an environment of self reliance and independent decision-making in
the local authorities. The SAR considered that these could be mitigated by orienting a significant
part of the Project towards technical assistance and training and by carrying out annual reviews in
which progress in the project's policy and institution strengthening component would be a
prerequisite for continued implementation of the physical investment components.
The actual implementation of the project revealed four notable project design flaws against which
the risk mitigation measures outlined in the SAR proved to be inadequate.
(a)   The implementation capacities of the central and local governments were seriously
overestimated.
(b)   The project design failed to include a system to monitor project impact and local
government performance. As a result, neither the government nor the Bank were provided with
information to make timely corrections to the project design or implementation arrangements.
(c)   The robustness of the DFLA mechanism in the face of potential macro-economic risks and
the weak revenue base of the borrowing local authorities was not rigorously appraised. Flaws in
the structural design of DFLA led to a lack of clarity and commitment on the part of GOM
regarding the operating principles that should have been enforced to ensure that DFLA would be
managed in a technically sound and financially self-sustainable manner.
(d)   The project design overestimated the government's commitment to local government
development. It also overestimated the ability of technical assistance, training, and periodic
reviews to influence and strengthen the policy regime and to improve the financial capacities of
the local authorities. In the end, the interventions built into the project were not sufficient to
overcome the larger political, macro-economic, and institutional forces that held back local
government reform. It is notable that in November 1994, only two years after credit
effectiveness, the elected local govermnent councils were dissolved. It took until November 2000
for local elections to be held. As a result, the local authorities remained relatively unempowered
and unaccountable to their constituents during most of the project's lifespan. This contributed to
- 6 -



various implementation problems mentioned in Section 5 below.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
If the project achieved anything, it did -- albeit belatedly -- help to lay a "foundation of related
actions" which should lead to the development, over the long term, of an effective local
government system in Malawi. The project influenced the adoption of reforms from 1998
onwards in two ways:
*   The project's Policy Reform Component produced a series of influential studies which
fostered policy dialogue within the government and with the donor community on
decentralization.
* The project provided a platform for the World Bank to join with other donors, notably the
UNDP, UNCDF, DANIDA, and DFID, to actively promote the local government reform
agenda over a crucial period of years. This was instrumental in the realization of the actions
listed below.
The significant steps taken during the last years of the project which have built a foundation for
the further development of the local government system are:
* The adoption of a Decentralization Policy by Cabinet in 1998.
* The passage of an amended Local Government Act (covering the responsibilities of both
Urban and District Assemblies) in 1998.
* The democratic election of local Assemblies in all 39 of the country's local government
jurisdictions in November 2000 (the first local government elections to have been held since
1994).
* The establishment in 2001 of a Local Government Finance Committee (LGFC) with
responsibility for overseeing, approving and reporting to Parliament on the annual financial
budgets of the local Assemblies and of recommending to Cabinet a formula for the annual
transfer of intergovernmental fiscal transfers (established under Sec. 149 of the constitution).
*   The approval by Parliament of the transfer of significant resources (five percent of national
revenues) from central to local governnents commencing in FY2001/02;
* The adoption by all local Assemblies of a standardized Financial Management and Accounting
Handbook.
* The completion in 2000 of a Functional Review of the DLG and the initiatiation of a thorough
restructuring of the Department to achieve its core objectives, including the recruitment of
new, more highly skilled staff.
* The appointment in 2001 of a highly capable and experienced Permanent Secretary for the
Department of Local Government.
-7-



The project's secondary objective was to "enhance the financial, managerial and technical capacity
of the local government system to: (a) provide and maintain essential municipal services at a level
consistent with affordability and the size and growth rate of the population; and (b) finance those
endeavors mainly with locally generated funds, while improving the financial management of such
funds."
As the subsequent sections of this ICR indicate, this secondary objective was not achieved. It was
envisioned that policy reforms could be put in place within the first two to three years of the
project, and that this framework could then facilitate real results at the local level within the
project's life span. This vision proved to be too ambitious; actual experience showed that the
time frame for improving local government capacity is far longer than expected. From its early
years the operating environment for the project was extremely constrained, as explained in
Section 5 below.
By today's operational standards, the kinds of objectives sought by the project would be
approached in a long-term context. The Bank's current practices would call for such a project to
be a pilot or the first stage of a long-term program of support, perhaps through an APL. The
objectives of the first stage operation would be stated much more modestly, with "triggers" - in
terms of specific policy reforms or other actions - set as conditions for moving from one phase to
another. Also, current good practice would dictate that the capital investment component be
designed in a programmatic way, based on eligibility and performance criteria to provide
incentives for capacity building of the local councils.
It might be argued that the project was a necessary - though not sufficient - factor in the
realization of the local government reforms to date and thus achieved its main objective of setting
in place a foundation of policies and actions to facilitate local government development over a
long-term period after the project's conclusion. However, the reforms so far, while significant, do
not consititute a sufficiently robust and sustainable foundation to justify this conclusion. Political
and economic uncertainties may yet undermine or stave off the crucial follow-up actions needed
to implement and uphold the reform agenda. This, together with the unsatisfactory results of the
institutional strengthening component and the DFLA, lead to the project's overall outcome being
rated Unsatisfactory.
*   The project's Policy Reform Component produced a series of influential studies which
fostered policy dialogue within the government and with the donor community on
decentralization.
*   The project provided a platform for the World Bank to join with other donors, notably the
UNDP, UNCDF, DANIDA, and DFID, to actively promote the local government reform
agenda over a crucial period of years.
The significant steps taken during the last years of the project which have culminated in a
sustainable foundation for the local government system are:
- 8-



The project's secondary objective was to "enhance the financial, managerial and technical capacity
of the local government system to: (a) provide and maintain essential municipal services at a level
consistent with affordability and the size and growth rate of the population; and (b) finance those
endeavors mainly with locally generated funds, while improving the financial management of such
funds."
As the subsequent sections of this ICR indicate, this secondary objective was not achieved. It was
envisioned that policy reforms could be put in place within the first two to three years of the
project, and that this framework could then facilitate real results at the local level within the
project's life span. This vision proved to be too ambitious; actual experience showed that the
time horizon for improving local government capacity is far longer than expected. From its early
years the operating environment for the project was extremely constrained, as explained in
Section 5 below.
By today's operational standards, the kinds of objectives sought by the project would be
approached in a long-term context. The Bank's current practices would call for such a project to
be a pilot or the first stage of a long-term program of support, perhaps through an APL. The
objectives of the first stage operation would be stated much more modestly, with "triggers" - in
terms of specific policy reforms or other actions - set as conditions for moving from one phase to
another. Also, current good practice would dictate that the capital investment component be
designed in a programmatic way, based on eligibility and performance criteria to provide
incentives for capacity building of the local councils.
It might be argued that the project was a necessary -- though not sufficient -- factor in the
realization of the local government reforms to date and thus achieved its main objective of putting
in place a foundation of policies and actions to facilitate local government development over a
long-term period after the project's conclusion. However, the reforms so far, while significant, do
not constitute a sufficiently robust and sustainable foundation to justify this conclusion. Political
and economic uncertainties may yet undermine or stave off the crucial follow-up actions needed
to implement and uphold the reform agenda'. This, together with the unsatisfactory results of the
institutional strengthening component and the DFLA, lead to the project's overall outcome being
rated Unsatisfactory.
Including (i) the establishment of a predictable, transparent, and adequately funded system for
inter-governmental transfers, (ii) the election of Assembly Chief Executives, (iii) the formal transfer of basic
competencies from selected sector ministries to Assemblies, and (iv) the implementation of effective capacity
building for local officials and staff.
-9-



4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Policy Reform Component ($3.193 m. SAR, $7.034 m. DCA, $5.772 m. actual)
Recognizing that GOM's ability to improve how local governments operate was constrained by an
inadequate policy framework, this component set out to assist GOM in formulating and analyzing
alternatives, removing bottlenecks, facilitating discussion, and implementing appropriate actions.
This would be achieved by carrying out 14 policy studies' (focusing on a legislative review, the
division of responsibilities and functions between the two tiers of government, financial resources
management, and human resources management) and holding associated high-level workshops to
review and adopt the recommendations of the studies (with associated outputs such as redrafted
legislation, procedural handbooks and similar). A team of MLG staff and four technical advisors
would monitor progress in adoption of policy reforms.
The Mid-Term Review (May 1996) reported that:
*   Two out of the 14 studies had been completed and recommendations were in use (the Local
Authority Budget Systems Manual and the Local Authority Accounting Systems Manual).
A further 10 of the 14 studies had been completed (with the 1th recently contracted) but the
associated recommendations had not been adopted. Reasons for the lack of follow up on the
studies and recommendations cited in the supervision missions and MTR mission included.
*   Only three of the four technical/resident advisors had been recruited (the financial controller,
systems maintenance engineer and housing advisor) and the unit in the MLGRD assigned for
monitoring implementation of the policy reforms clearly lacked both the technical capacity and
political support to take forward the recommendations in a proactive way;
*   Some of the reports (for example, the redrafted Local Government Act) had been overtaken
by events on the ground and would need further revision;
*   Many of the policy reform recommendations were put on hold due to the absence of an
overarching Government policy on decentralization (what model to adopt, timetable for
implementation, etc.). A general policy on decentralization was adopted in 1996 and a
Cabinet Committee on Decentralization established, but it was only in 1998 that the new
Local Governnent Act was passed and in 1999 that a detailed Decentralization
Implementation Plan adopted by GOM.
Following the Bank's July 1999 mission, which performed the first serious review of the DFLA
since the mid-term review in 1996, it was agreed at the Bank's urging that a detailed assessment
study of the DFLA should be carried out. This was eventually carried out by a Bank mission in
May 2001, shortly before project closing, as the government had been unable to contract a
suitable consultant to complete the study before the project
Including (i) the establishment of a predictable, transparent, and adequately funded system for inter-govetorment
transfers, (ii) the election of Assembly Chief Executives, (iii) the formal transfer of basic competencies from
selected sector ministries to Assemblies, and (iv) the implementation of effective capacity building for local
officials and staff.
- 10 -



closed. The study confirmed the extent of financial difficulties facing the DFLA, analyzed the
roots of problems, and provided GOM with alternative options for closing or managing down the
Fund.
Overall, the studies were completed in a timely manner and were of a high standard. Until
December 1995, the project supervision missions comrnented that the Government remained
committed to implementing policy reforms under the project. However, the crucial adoption of
the recommendations of the studies and the political commitment to implement them were lacking
throughout most of the life of the project. From December 1995 the policy reforn component
was reported as making slow progress and was eventually downgraded to Unsatisfactory by
mid- 1997. Political commitment to decentralization and the recognition of the need for strong
and accountable local governments was given a new impetus in the final years of the project. In
mid-1999, the component was upgraded to being Satisfactory as a result of the approval of a new
Local Government Act and the Cabinet approval of a new Decentralization Policy. Local
Government elections were held in November 2000, a Local Government Finance Committee was
established, and in FY200l/02 the MOF approved the transfer of 5 percent of national revenues
to local governments for recurrent and development expenditures.
While the recent advances in local government policy reforms in Malawi resulted from a number
of influences, it is clear that the LGDP deserves credit for facilitating the reforms through the
studies it sponsored. These opened up crucial policy discussions over a lengthy period of time
(nine years) on key reform areas and ultimately contributed to the original objective of assisting
GOM to put in place the key foundations of a stronger, more effective local government system.
For this reason, the component is judged satisfactory.
(b) Institutional Strengthening Component ($11.666 m. SAR, $2.543 m. DCA, $2.197 m.
actual)
At the time of appraisal, GOM recognized the need to strengthen the capacity of local
governments as a key element in the development process and as one of the important ingredients
of macroeconomic adjustment and stabilization in Malawi. This component was therefore seen as
essential. It had three principal elements: reinforcing the MLG through changes in the staffing
and organization (at both the center and in the regional offices); institutional strengthening of the
four main urban councils and a package of management and skills enhancement assistance to other
local authorities; and developing a national training program for local authority elected officials
and staff. The SAR detailed that this would be achieved by:
* Preparing a five-year action plan for MLG reorganization involving a new mission statement,
supportive equipment and operating expenditures and technical assistance.
* In the case of the four main urban councils, providing incremental staff and running costs for



administering the Traditional Housing Areas (THAs); refurbishing vehicle fleets; studies for
THA upgrading; technical assistance for development of maintenance systems; project
development; property and housing management; and finance and accounting strengthening
(making use of manuals and systems developed under the policy reform component);
* In-service training, entry level training, and academic training for central and local government
staff;
All of these were specified in a detailed work program (SAR, Annex 3).
The LGDP delivered a significant amount of training in the first six years of the project, during
which time 638 individuals had undergone either short-term or long-term training in a wide range
of topics including upgrading of low income settlements, financial management, procurement, and
planning and urban management. There was a hiatus in training activities in 1999, and then in
2000/01 it picked up again, in particular with the induction training of all newly elected local
government councilors after the November 2000 elections.
Long term technical advisors provided useful inputs, in particular to the four cities in the
administration of housing areas (THAs) and in systems maintenance engineering. The technical
assistance component for a housing estate development adviser was implemented between August
1994 and December 1999. The adviser worked with Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu council
assembly in the management and administration of the site and services/upgrading schemes and
carried out on the job-training for cost recovery calculations based on the projects implemented.
Both Blantyre and Lilongwe city assemblies have gained practical experience and knowledge on
development of project proposals, procurement, document preparation and procedures, contract
management and cost recovery and user charges calculations. Mzuzu city assembly to a limited
extent also acquired some experience and knowledge on development of project proposals and
project management. The systems maintenance engineering was successfully completed with
training assistance provided to the staff of Blantyre, Lilongwe, Zomba and Mzuzu assemblies
focusing on roads, buildings, vehicles and equipment. The assemblies were also assisted to
develop a maintenance policy.
Furthermore, the project financed the procurement of a range of municipal equipment (88%
disbursement percentage under this category in the Credit): 76 vehicles (station wagons, pickup
trucks, trailers, 7 ton truck), plant (dump truck, water tanker, 3 skip handlers, 90 skips, pit
emptier) and equipment (computers, photocopiers) and motorcycles for distribution to the
Assemblies, Ministry of Local Government and the Mpemba Staff Development Institute. Also
procured were the spares for most of the vehicles. In addition, 20 vehicles, plant and equipment
were procured under works and services contracts.
The functional review of the MLG was slow to be undertaken and was finally only completed in
1999 with grant funding from another donor. Full implementation of the Review, including the
re-staffmg of the Department of Local Government, was still being effected at the time of the ICR
and so the full impact of the Review is yet to be evaluated.
12 -



Supervision missions consistently rated this component as performing satisfactorily up until
December l999', noting that technical expertise (in planning, procurement, engineering design
and construction supervision) at the local level was improving and that local governments were
gaining valuable lessons from the implementation of the infrastructure component.
However, despite the significant financial inputs provided under the project ($2.2m), capacity
within both tiers of Government remained weak at the close of the project. At the central
government level, the DLG continued to rely heavily on outside units such as the Decentralization
Secretariat to monitor the activities of the local authorities and to coordinate policy reform
activities, and on the PCU for financial control of the project funds (a recently completed external
audit of the Project accounts cited extensive qualifications by the auditors on the financial records
kept by the DLG itself).
Similarly, the capacity within the Local Assemblies, with the possible exceptions of Blantyre CA
and Lilongwe CA, remained weak across the board (poor revenue collection and financial
management, late or non-submission of annual audited accounts, consistent defaulting on
repayments to the DFLA, costly overruns on works contracts on the sub-projects in most of the
centers, poor cost recovery procedures on site and service schemes, to name some key examples).
While most of the tangible outputs of this component were delivered (advisers, training, studies,
equipment), these have not been transformed, in the main, into tangible results in terms of
institutional strengthening. For this reason the component is rated as Unsatisfactory.
(c) Infrastructure and Equipment Component ($21.394 m. SAR, $13.399 m. DCA, $11.08
m. actual)
Implementation of the infrastructure and services was achieved slowly but in general satisfactorily
under the project. The financing mechanism (DFLA) set up by the project was a failure.
By the close of the project, 80 percent of the funds in the works categories under the credit were
disbursed. Two works contracts were not completed largely because of poor performance by the
contractors: Blantyre Ndirande market extension (90% completed) and Lilongwe Works Yard
Improvement Phase 2 (60% completed). One other works contract, the Ntcheu Kampepuza
market, was not fully completed (98 percent) due to the inability of the District Assembly to meet
its counterpart payment toward the contractor s certificates.
At the end of March 2001 the Government, in consultation with the Bank, cancelled one large
works project before it was awarded - the upgrading of Phwetekere sites and service scheme
Phase B - because a number of households had settled informally on the site, requiring a
resettlement plan and because there was insufficient time to complete the scheme before the
project closing date.
4
With one exception, in September 1998, but in April 1999, the rating improved once again to satisfactory)
- 13-



The following details the infrastructure provided under the project in each of the participating
Assemblies:
Lilongwe City Assembly: The first phase of Phwetekere sites and service/upgrading scheme was
completed, with 521 plots were demarcated and allocated to members of the public. The paving
of the Malangalanga Road and the improvement of the link between the MI and Malangalanga
Road and market was implemented and has generated considerable additional traffic and
economic activity in and around the market. The improvement of the Phase I of the Work Depot
was completed and the depot has since been put to use. Construction of Phase 2 of the Works
Depot was only 60 percent completed at credit closing. The Assembly is in the process of
reviewing the scope of work with a view to reducing it to the level they can fund. The equipment
delivered for Solid Waste Management assisted in the cleanliness of the city. Between 50-60% of
the solid waste generated within Lilongwe city is moved and disposed at the dump site.
Evacuation of septic tank effluent was improved through the provision of septic tank emptiers.
Though landfill equipment was procured, it was not fully utilized as the landfill component of the
project did not go beyond the detailed design. The vehicles delivered assisted the city assembly to
step up its rate collection and movement of officials.
Blantyre City Assembly: Except for the Ndirande Market Extension, which was 90 percent
completed at project closing, all physical works including procurement of vehicles and equipment
were satisfactorily completed. The Ndirande market comprises various types of sheds with a total
of about 920 stalls, an ablution block, drainage, the boundary wall and paving of the market area.
The uncompleted works are the ablution block and the paving of the market area. The City
Assembly reported that it plans to use its own funds to complete these elements. The Nkolokoti
and Chilomoni THA upgrading; and Ndirande informal settlement upgrading involved upgrading
of a range of essential infrastructure and services in these poor neighbourhoods. About 3.5km of
roads and drains were provided and provision was made for sanitation improvement.
To reduce the incidence of night-time accidents along Zalewa Road (which has a high level of
pedestrian traffic) 8km street lighting was constructed. The road is now well lit at night,
enhancing the security within the community and also assisting business activities in the area. The
Nkolokoti Parkway Upgrading involved the upgrading of 3.1 km of road. The completion of the
road has assisted traffic circulation and has removed congestion which previously characterized
this section of the road.
Limbe Market Improvement and Extension involved the construction of a new food hall,
refurbishment of the existing market, provision of a forecourt (for delivery of produce) provision
of two public toilets consisting of 12 rooms, refurbishment of the refuse bunker, construction of
boundary wall, Market Master's office and electrical works. The market has since become
operational. Although the occupancy rate of the market is high, revenue collection is low. The
completion of the Limbe market did not affect street vendoring, as many small vendors consider
the market unaffordable and therefore still prefer to sell their wares on the streets.
The subsidiary market for Chilomoni involved the construction of 12 open stalls, paved market
- 14 -



area, refurbishment of existing shed and construction of new shed for sale of vegetables. Though
the market was completed, the rate of occupancy was low (approximately 30%.) This was
attributed to smaller informal markets springing up in the vicinity of Chilomoni.
Limbe Bus Depot: The Limbe bus depot involved the construction of access road, provision of a
service block, bus island and canopy, gate houses and erection of boundary wall. Despite the
successful completion of the bus depot, it was not in use at project closing because Blantyre City
Assembly had not yet worked out an acceptable mode oi operating it. Discussions with bus
operators and other stakeholders are continuing.
Chilomoni South Site and Service Scheme: The scheme's main objective of providing affordable
decent land to low- to middle-income people so that they can build and own permanent houses,
thereby improving their standard of living was achieved. A total of 1.6km of surfaced road; 5.6km
of gravel road, 9.8km of storm water drains, road furniture, landscaping electricity and water
supply were provided. Also 542 plots comprising of 483 residential plots, 50 commercial plots
and 9 institutional plots were demarcated. By August 2001, 501 plots have been allocated and
some of them fully developed.
Ndirande Market Extension: The main objective of embarking on the extension of Ndirande
Market is to reduce congestion at the existing market and create room for vendors who hitherto
trade on the street. The project was only 90% completed at project closing.
Mzuzu City Assembly:
The Luwinga site and services and upgrading project which envisaged the provision of serviced
plots for low income housing was satisfactorily completed. 8.4 km. of road of varying width,
0.8km of lined drain and 1.1 km. of unlined drain, sanitation facilities were provided. About 662
plots were demarcated. However, no plots had been allocated as of project closing.
Advertisement for the sale of plots has been made. The Assembly expects that the Luwinga site
and service will enhance the revenue accruing to it through the sale of plots and payment of
ground rents.
Zomba Municipal Assembly:
The bus depot which involved the construction of access road, service block, bus Island canopy
and toilets was successfully completed and has since been put to use. Work on the upgrading of
Chinanwali and Ngongonwa Markets were substantially completed, however, at loan closing there
were minor outstanding works. Despite these minor outstanding works, the two markets are being
used.
District Assemblies:
(i) The refurbishment of M'mbelwa Resthouse at Mzimba Boma was only 80% complete at
loan closing. Due to the non-completion of the resthouse, the District Assembly is unable to put
it to its intended use.
(ii) The improvements to Mphate market in Ntcheu District Assembly entailed building of
- 15-



stalls, coldroom, electrification, toilets and perimeter fence. The improvement works were
substantially completed with only the electrical works outstanding. The improvement work on the
Kampepuza market which involved erection of sheds, Market Master' s office, toilets, slaughter
house and perimeter fence was substantially completed (98%). The markets are however, in use.
(iii) The additional work to Nsanje market involved provision of lock-up shops, selling sheds,
toilets, canteen and construction of perimeter fence. The work was successfully completed.
Role of the Development Fund for Local Authorities (DFLA)
The Credit Agreement provided that GOM should on-lend funds to local authorities to finance
infrastructure and services. The Project SAR explained that "Funds for infrastructure, vehicles
and equipment component of the project will be on-lent to local councils through a Development
Fund for Local Authorities (DFLA). DFLA will be created through a government trust fund and
will receive the repayments of all on-lending" (SAR, p.25). The underlying idea was that
repayments accruing to the Trust would form a revolving fund pool which could provide the
source of funds for lending to local authorities on an ongoing basis into the future.
The DFLA's primary capital assets were derived from the loans provided by GOM to the nine
participating Assemblies with funds sourced from IDA. The initial amount totaled MK13m
(US$3.3m); by June 2001, MK137.7m (US$4.9m) had accrued to DFLA on this basis. The Fund
Administrators referred to loans under the LGDP as "indirect loans" to the Assemblies; loans
filmded from other income of the Fund (principally Treasury bills) were called "direct loans".
The life of the Fund can be divided into a number of different phases. From 1993 - 1996, it was
managed in-house by the DLGA and loan disbursement only occurred in "indirect" form. In
1996, the Fund administration was outsourced, "indirect" loan disbursement continued and
"direct" loans were allocated to a number of Assemblies. Original loan terms were charged
during this period. In 1999, with the Reserve Bank of Malawi rates at a high 47 percent, the
Board decided to capitalize all accrued and unpaid interest amounts, amortizing these over the
remaining lives of the loans, and reduce interest rates to a fixed 15 percent. By mid-2000, the
DFLA did not have the fumds to provide any loans to Assemblies and all new lending activity had
ceased. In the words of the Fund Administrators, it had become "dormant and illiquid".
The basic factor behind this situation was the chronic failure of local authorities to service their
debt obligations, almost from the inception of the project. Repayments were extremely and
consistently poor - averaging well below 25 percent of amounts due annually. In consequence,
there was a growing cumulative arrear amount. In addition, the Fund did not write off bad debts
and due to the combined effects of high inflation and local currency depreciation, the real value of
the Fund's original capital base was considerably eroded. At historic prices, the original value of
the indirect loans amounted to US$4.9 m. By the end of the Project, the book value of the
portfolio had deteriorated to about $2.1 m., the cost of this depreciation being borne by the
central fiscus.
The DFLA therefore is unsustainable, and there is little prospect of it being able to resume lending
- 16 -



to Assemblies. According to a detailed report produced by a Bank mission in June, 2001, the
DFLA has become an increasing burden on the central fiscus which has ultimately had to cover
the cost of the Fund's asset depreciation. DFLA also has suffered from political influence over its
management, in part because its Board has been composed exclusively of government officials
with little or no experience in business or financial management.
The DFLA apparently never incorporated any systems to assess the creditworthiness of the local
authorities to which it "lent". In practice, the costs of new sub-projects financed under the LGDP
would automatically appear as "loans" to the local authorities with no ex ante analysis, discussion,
or agreements. Other loans outside the framework of the LGDP were made in similar ways.
Although the SAR stated that "provision of funds for infrastructure will be linked to will be linked
to the financial performance of the local authorities", there is no evidence that any such
mechanism was designed or used.
The Bank study recommended termination or withdrawal from the DFLA. There are two ways in
which this could be done: (i) attempt to attract a private sector buyer for the loan portfolio which
would then manage the portfolio as it saw fit; (ii) freeze the DFLA operations and, with the assets
parked either in the existing vehicle (the Trust) or transferred to a government Ministry, manage
the existing portfolio down to zero. In either case, government will need to develop an approach
to deal with the distribution of the accumulated debt burden between itself and the borrower local
authorities. It is recommended that the responsibility for dealing with the detailed policy and
implementation of this option be delegated to the Local Government Finance Committee.
Overall, in that the works were largely completed as planned (albeit generally behind schedule),
the provision of infrastructure and services was achieved satisfactorily. However, the DFLA did
not succeed as a self-sustaining financing intermediary for capital investments by the Assemblies,
and it must be evaluated as unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR presented economic rates of return (ERRs) for 11 of the physical investments including
sites and services schemes, road improvements, and waste management in Lilongwe and Blantyre;
markets in Blantyre and Zomba; and a bus depot in Zomba. The weighted average ERR for these
subprojects, which represented 52 percent of the total project cost, was 16 percent. The
economic benefits from the Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening components were not
quantified, but qualitative descriptions of the benefits were outlined.
No data were available to permit ex post re-estimations of the economic benefits of the actual
capital investments. The collection of actual quantitative benefits data for the various
sub-projects (e.g., actual payments for plots in sites and services schemes, traffic counts on roads,
actual costs per m3 of solid waste collected, actual incremental revenues from markets and bus
parks) would have been an enormous task beyond the capabilities of the implementing agencies
involved. Given the severe limitations on implementation capacity that persisted toward the end
of the project in the Department of Local Government and the Project Coordination Unit, it was
judged neither feasible nor worthwhile to organize a consulting contract to carry out such an
assessment.
- 17 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable, as no financial rates of return were presented in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
IDI at central government level
Through its Policy Reform Component, the LGDP set in place an effective platform for dialogue
within central government, between the two tiers of government, and with donors over policies
and institutional development of local governments and decentralization more broadly. Fourteen
key studies were carried out with project funding and although not all the recommendations were
finally adopted by government, they nonetheless provided continual "entry points" for keeping
discussions alive. The momentum of the LGDP was complemented by parallel support to GOM
by other donors, in particular UNDP and UNCDF through the 5th Country Assistance Program
and the Local Govemance and Development Management Program. These sustained activities
contributed significantly to the formulation and adoption of the legal, policy, and institutional
framework described in Section 4.1 above.
IDI at local government level
The IDI at the local government level had inadequate results. One positive aspect is that, during
the project, there was an improvement in financial accounting by the local Assemblies. At the
inception of the project, most local assemblies were four years in arrears in maintenance of their
books and having them audited. Financial information was not easily obtainable. The requirement
that the participating assemblies submit their entity audited accounts nine months after year end
did bring about some much needed discipline in the Assemblies to keep their books up-to-date,
and audit reports of the participating assemblies have in most cases been submitted in time.
For the most part, however, the impact of the project in terms of strengthening the capacity of the
Assemblies to procure and manage contracts, to raise revenues, and to maintain basic
infrastructure and services has been disappointing (see Section 4.2).
On balance the institutional development impact of the project is rated as Modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(a)   Several ongoing donor-ftmded programs contributed directly to project preparation:
*      USAID funded a needs assessment preliminary strategy in 1989 and a resident MLG
training advisor to assess the local government sector administrative capacity and supervise
the design of training programs.
*      ODA funded a consultant reviewing local government legislation as well as technical
assistance to three urban councils and assured its commitment to fund an urban development
- 18-



advisor to MLG for three years as well as to continue financing the legislative review.
*      KfW funded investments and technical assistance through the Department of Housing and
Physical Planning Secondary Centers Development Project.
*      UNDP provided technical assistance to MLG for preparation of a project proposal under
its Local Governance and Development Management Program, subsequently refinanced
through a PPF. At appraisal, UNDP committed to further supporting the project and agreed
to consider funding other technical assistance positions of the institutional strengthening
components.
At the time of appraisal, significant co-financing was envisaged under the project to
complement IDA support to institutional strengthening activities (the restructuring of the
DLG, the strengthening of the Assemblies, and higher level training). Grant co-financing for
these activities was to be provided as follows:
*      Municipal Development Program ($0.3 million) for studies and t-aining for Assemblies.
*      ODA (DFID) (S0.8 million) for technical assistance.
*      UNDP ($1.7 million) for four of the long-term advisor positions and two UN volunteers at
each of the three local government regional offices.
*      USAID ($0.7 million) for technical assistance.
By the supervision mission of July 1993, however, it became clear that none of these funds
would be forthcoming. The available documentation does not explain why the co-financing
fell through. As a result, at least two of the four long-term technical advisors did not
materialize, and this impacted negatively on the adoption of recommendations from the
various policy studies and the capacity of MLG to monitor the performance of the
Assemblies. Subsequently, UNDP did provide separate financing for several studies and
technical assistance activities under its Local Governance and Development Management
Program.
(b)   The poor performance of the contractors and supervising consultants on some of the
works contracts led to their non-completion. For example, the contractor's cash flow problems
(resulting in difficulties in timely procurement of materials and equipment for the contract)
affected the completion of the Ndirande Market. A similar situation occurred with the Mzimba
rest house. While the bulk of the civil works contracts were finalized before the end of the
project, many of them overran their original schedules for completion, with their defects liability
periods running beyond the project closing date.
(c)   Some turnover of officials and staff at the central and local levels due to HIV/AIDS had a
negative effect on capacity-building.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
(a)   Substantial devaluations of the local currency throughout the project period resulted in a
- 19 -



reduced requirement for the Credit's US dollars. Partially in response to this, SDR 500,000 was
cancelled from the Credit in April 2000. The deteriorating value of the local currency also caused
numerous contract management problems, as local contractors submitted claims for price
escalations and requests to "peg" contract prices to the US dollar, contributing to slow
completion rates on the works projects and substantial overruns on the scheduled completion
dates.
(b)   High inflation and the accompanying high interest rate regime (around 46 percent per year
in mid-1999) impacted strongly on the project. The Assemblies found it extremely difficult to
budget accurately for sub-projects, and this resulted in slow implementation progress on many
contracts as cost overruns had to be verified. High inflation had a devastating impact on the
DFLA onlending scheme. In particular, the initial decision to charge a floating interest rate linked
to the Central Bank rate subjected local authorities to strong upwards interest rate movements
(increasing from 15 percent at the start of the project to 48 percent in 1998, to a high 60% in
2000). Without commensurate elasticities in their revenue base, this created major debt service
difficulties for the Assemblies. The capping of DFLA interest rates at 15% in 1999 helped to
diminish this problem but only by expanding the interest rate subsidy received by the Local
Assemblies and exacerbating the sustainability problems confronting the DFLA. This, together
with other factors, finally resulted in the Fund becoming insolvent.
(c)   In the assessment of Project Risks, the SAR noted that "there is a risk that the pace at
which the entrenched control behavior of the central government can be modified to create an
environment of self-reliance and independent decision-making in the Councils will be slow." The
central government's commitment to creating an enabling environment for the development of
efficient and effective local governments was noted by supervision missions as an ongoing risk
throughout the life of the project. In fact, in 1994 the Government dissolved all existing local
Councils (on the grounds that it wished to make way for fresh, multi-party elections at the local
level). It took until November 2000 for the government to carry out new local elections. During
the six-year interim, the Councils were run by appointed officials. This undermined the downward
accountability of local governments, an essential requirement for the improvement of local
government performance. Between 1994 and 1998 the government also held back on the legal,
institutional, and financial reform agenda for local government, leaving the assemblies relatively
"disempowered" in terms of financial and human resources. For example, during this period the
government reneged on its commitments to provide transfers to the local authorities from the
central fiscus and to pay subventions in lieu of property taxes on government properties. The lack
of an enabling environment contributed to the increasingly poor financial performance of the
Councils, which in turn led to significant negative impacts on the project. Firstly, it gave rise to
very low loan servicing levels by the Local Assemblies to the DFLA, ultimately forcing the DFLA
to the point of insolvency. Secondly, at various times during the course of the project, the Local
Assemblies were unable to make good on their 15 percent contributions to the sub-projects being
constructed. Faced with late or non-payment of the local counterpart funds, contractors' work
programs slipped and a few sub-projects were not completed. Finally, it was possibly also a
contributing factor to the lack of 'ownership' by local governments over their particular
sub-projects, as evidenced for example, by their endorsing contractors' claims for escalations in
price and for contract variations without thorough prior review.
- 20 -



(d)   At appraisal, the Ministry of Local Government was identified to be the focal point for the
project, responsible for monitoring the overall progress of the project and coordinating the
respective assemblies and other agencies. These roles were not effectively performed by the
Ministry due to lack of adequately skilled personnel and frequent changes of officials.
(e)   At the start of the project, as provided for in the SAR, a project coordinator was
appointed in MLG "to ensure satisfactory and timely implementation of the project" as well as to
present annual project progress reports to IDA. This proved to be ineffective, and in June 1994,
the GOM and the Bank agreed to the establishment of a dedicated Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) staffed by a full-time project manager, a full-time financial controller, and a part-time
project engineer. While a useful improvement in principle, the PCU did not live up to
expectations in practice. The assignment of roles and accountability between the Ministry and the
PCU and between the PCU and the project Steering Committee (inter-Ministerial) were not well
defined, which delayed key decisions and actions. Appointments to the PCU came to be seen as
"political" rather than on the grounds of technical competence. Financial accounting, requiring
coordination between the Ministry and the PCU, was poorly managed until the last two or three
years of the project. The PCU never adopted a pro-active, problem-solving management
approach. This combination of factors resulted in inadequate support to the Local Assemblies (in
particular the smaller Assemblies). This manifested itself in poor contract management of works
projects and missed opportunities for providing feedback to Assemblies to improve their
performance.
(f)   Institutional development impacts were limited by frequent changes of officials and staff at
central and local levels.
(g)   The above-mentioned factors combined to take away from the local authorities whatever
sense of ownership they may have built up during project preparation. The project gradually
came to be seen as belonging mainly to the central government or to the Bank, and as such did
not receive optimum levels of staff commitment and involvement in implementation (this was
especially true of the smaller Assemblies). This was exacerbated by the absence of technically
qualified engineering and project management staff in either the Department of Local
Government or the PCU, which meant that opportunities for iterative "learning-by-doing" were
lost.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a)   The PCU, as mentioned above, operated in a generally passive, reactive way. This led to
inadequate supervision of implementation at the local authority level and delays in coming to grips
with problems between World Bank missions.
(b)   As implementing agencies for the investments sub-projects, the local authorities were
poorly equipped with either procurement or contract administration skills and experience (except
for Blantyre and Lilongwe City Assemblies). It took some time for the Assemblies to understand
and accept Bank procurement requirements, and there were instances of Assemblies giving verbal
advice or approvals to contractors which subsequently had to be changed to conform with Bank
guidelines.
- 21 -



(c)   Cost recovery on the site and service schemes was weak. Actual construction costs were
higher than planned. The plots appear to have been allocated mainly to middle income rather than
lower income households.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost at appraisal was projected at US$36.3 million, of which US$24.0 million
would be financed by IDA, US$9.1 million by GOM and the Local Assemblies, and US$3.2
million would be grant co-financing.
The IDA Credit, approved on June 4, 1992, provided the original principal of SDR 17.6 million
(approximately US$24.47 m.), close to the appraisal figure. However, as noted in Section 5.1,
the grant co-financing did not materialize.
In February 2000, the project cost was reviewed, resulting in a new estimate of $28 m. IDA
would contribute $22.6 m., and the remaining $5.4 m. would be met by GOM and the Local
Assemblies. In light of the revised estimates for IDA financing, SDR 500,000 ($672,265) was
cancelled from the Credit on March 17, 2000. The reduction in the project cost ($7 m.) was
made from the Infrastructure and Services component after the feasibility of starting new
infrastructure sub-projects was assessed by the Bank. Four main criteria were used in the
assessment: (a) the track record in cost recovery and maintenance of previous investments; (b) the
likely abilities of the Local Assemblies to adequately finance maintenance in the future; (c) Local
Assemblies' capacities to manage implementation of the new sub-projects; and (d) the likelihood
of completion within the extension period.
A further contributing factor to the revised cost estimate (over and above the reduced number of
infrastructure sub-projects) was the substantial devaluation of the local currency over the life of
the project, resulting in a reduced requirement for the credit's US dollars. (At the time of project
appraisal, $1 = MK2.96, but this had fallen to $1 = MK70 by the close of the project).
By the end of the project (data as of November 15, 2001), total IDA disbursements amounted to
$19.89 m., lower than the estimate of February 2000. The difference of $2.7 m. between the
estimate made in 2000 and the final expended amount was primarily due to (a) slow completion of
ongoing projects (please refer to Section 4.2.c for contracts not completed at project closing); (b)
the completion of two consultancy studies by the government using grant funds from UNDP
rather than the IDA credit (the study on the design of the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system
and the study into enhancing local government revenues, to an amount of $335,000); and (c) the
cancellation in April 2001 of the Phwetekere sites and services scheme Phase B (an amount of
$635,000) when it became clear that the project could not be completed before the project closing
date (in addition to the late start up of contract award, the risks were exacerbated by the need to
resettle and compensate 40 homesteads which had moved into the site after it had been designed).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
- 22 -



For this project, evaluation of sustainability is based on three elements. First is the issue of
sustainable financing for Assembly capital investments. Second is the ability of the Assemblies to
sustain these investments through proper operations and maintenance procedures. Third is the
sustainability of the "enabling framework" of laws, policies, and institutions for local government
development and eventual service provision by the Assemblies. Each of these considerations is
discussed below.
(a)   Sustainable financing of Assembly investments
As explained in Section 4.2.c. above, the DFLA as a financing mechanism for Local Assembly
capital investments is unsustainable, and there is little prospect of it being able to resume lending
to Assemblies. The DFLA has become an increasing burden on the central fiscus which has
ultimately had to cover the cost of the Fund's asset depreciation. The Ministry of Finance is
currently reviewing options to either sell off the loan portfolio of the Fund or to manage it down
in a debt sharing relationship with the Assemblies. The recognition of this situation has in turn
given rise to a discussion within Malawi as to the extent to which credit is an appropriate means
of financing investments for local authorities. The government is shifting its focus to unconditional
block grants to Assemblies (through the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system) complemented
by local government own-source revenue enhancement measures.
(b)   Sustainabilitv of the investments by the Assemblies
Regarding the extent to which the Assemblies are able to operate and maintain the investments
made under the project, the experiences to date have been mixed.
All Assemblies visited by the ICR mission were operating and maintaining equipment which had
been procured under the project (primarily municipal service vehicles and office equipment) and in
one case (Luchenza Town Council), leasing out a vehicle on a commercial basis to derive
revenues for its maintenance (although the Assembly had not done a cost-benefit analysis to
determine if the additional operating costs would in fact be recouped).
The markets completed under the project and now in use (for example, Ngongomwa and
Chinamwali in Zomba, and Limbe in Blantyre) had high occupancy rates, and the Assemblies were
deriving significant monthly incomes from them. An analysis of income and expenditures6 by
Blantyre City Assembly on the Limbe market for July 2000 through April 2001 showed that
revenues were 2.6 times expenditures (and in ten out of twelve markets in the city, the Assembly
made a profit over the period).
However, the roads which had been upgraded under the project (for example, the Ndirande Loop
Road (Blantyre) and the local access roads in Phwetekere sites and services scheme (Lilongwe)
showed physical signs of low levels of maintenance. Storm water drains were blocked with silt
and garbage resulting in drainage down and erosion to the road reserve itself. Culverts providing
off-street access were blocked and in some cases
Market fees and rent
6
Water, electricity, Telephone, Salaries and wages, Bus fare and Maintenence
- 23 -



collapsed. Similarly, a detailed assessment of cost recovery procedures in the site and service
schemes carried out by the Bank mission in July 1999 indicated that recovery rates were low and
that there was a reluctance by both local and central government to attempt to recover full costs
on the schemes.
Overall it must be recognized that the own source revenue potential of Malawi's local authorities
is structurally limited. Malawi has one of the lowest per capita incomes in the world, and only in
the four main urban centers is there any possibility of levying or collecting any significant amounts
from property taxes (rates). In the District Assemblies, over half of all revenues derive from
market fees. In addition to these structural constraints, actual collection rates are low and erratic.
For example, over the six-month period July - December 2000, actual revenue inflows in Blantyre
stood at about 75 percent of the budgeted total; for Lilongwe the figure was only 58 percent.
The Constitution of Malawi explicitly recognizes the need for the devolution of responsibilities to
local governments to be matched by appropriate resources. This is to be achieved not only by
improved revenue collection efficiencies, but also by an appropriate system of fiscal transfers from
the center. In this context, the government recently commenced a fundamental restructuring of
the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.
From FY2001/02, five percent of national revenues are being transferred, based on an allocative
formula, to all Assemblies as unconditional block grants. Initially at least 60% of the grants are
intended for recurrent expenditures. The central government has also recently agreed to begin
paying rates on its properties to Assemblies more consistently and at higher levels (50%) than it
has done in the past which will in turn free up resources for O&M requirements of the
Assemblies. Much more still needs to be done, both with respect to policy (agreements on
revenue sharing principles, long-t erm intergovernmental fiscal transfers) and to strengthening the
capacity of Assemblies improvements to revenue collection systems and budgeting and prioritizing
development and maintenance needs.
(c)   Facilitative operating environment for local authorities
As outlined in Section 4.2 (a) above, the government has now put in place a series of legal, policy,
and institutional reforms, for which the project can claim partial credit, constituting a good
foundation for sustaining progress, over the long term, on strengthening local governments to
provide basic services.
Conclusion:
The financing mechanism for local capital investments failed; the government did not put in place
the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system; and own-source revenue collection by the local
authorities did not improve. On the other hand, some key foundations of the policy and
institutional framework were finally laid, and the government is now seeking donor support for a
- 24 -



comprehensive Decentralization Implementation Plan. However, the resiliency of these gains to
future political and macro-economic risks remains uncertain. On balance, overall sustainability of
the project is evaluated as Unlikely
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
None of the Assemblies prepared a plan for the operation and maintenance of the investments
delivered through the project. However, during the project completion mission, the Assemblies
expressed their readiness to undertake the maintenance of the facilities in their respective
jurisdictions.
Roads: All the roads upgraded under the project are concentrated in Lilongwe and Blantyre
cities. Both LCA and BCA agreed to include in the budget beginning from 2001/2002, funds for
operation and maintenance.
Markets: The project supported the upgrading of three markets in Blantyre, two in Zomba, one in
Nsanje and two in Ntcheu. All of the markets are functional. The two markets in Zomba and the
two in Ntcheu are in use despite the outstanding works which the Assemblies plan to complete
with their own funds. The increased revenues accruing from the operation of the markets would
suggest that the Assemblies should be able to include in their budgets funds for the maintenance
of these markets.
Site and Services: The site and services subprojects in Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu were
successfully completed. In the case of the Chilomoni site and services, BCA plan to maintain the
facilities through user charges and collection of ground rents. LCA has had difficulty with cost
recovery on the Phwetekere site and services scheme due to lack of proper records of payment, a
faulty data base, and high staff turnover.
Vehicles and Equipment: Site visits during the completion mission indicate that the vehicles and
equipment acquired through the project are being maintained. However, there is need for the
Assemblies to develop plans for the regular maintenance of these items.
With regard to the Infrastructure and Services component in general, as noted in Section 6.1 (ii)
above, the ability of the Assemblies to adequately operate and maintain the works and equipment
over the medium term is not a given, even in those instances where the facilities are generating
incomes for the Assemblies (e.g. markets). The Government has recently initiated a pilot project
in seven Assemblies to carry out in-depth analysis of local tax collections and the administrative
procedures used. However, the effectiveness of these measures are yet to be seen and will need
to be constantly monitored in the future. A future impact evaluation would be prudent during the
second year following full completion of all sub-projects and after the expiry of the defects
liability periods At that time, Assembly budget allocations for O&M could be better monitored.
Additional capital financing is required for the Assemblies to undertake new capital investments to
keep pace with population growth. Moderate amounts of funding are available through the
District Development Fund (UNCDF supported) and the Malawi Social Action Fund (IDA
supported), but in neither case are sufficient levels of finance available for the types and size of
investments required in the larger towns and cities. Given that the new fiscal transfers are
- 25 -



intended for recurrent costs, no financing arrangement exists to support new local government
investments.
With regard to the Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening components, additional
financing would be required to maintain the momentum gained under the project and to
complement declining resources from the UNDP Local Governance and Management
Development Program. GOM has recognized the need for this and has incorporated ongoing
training, policy studies and institutional development activities into its adopted Decentralization
Implementation Plan. A Donors' Roundtable, facilitated by the DLG's Decentralization
Secretariat, was held in August 2001 to solicit donor support to the activities budgeted for in the
Plan, and it does appear likely that some grant finance will be available over the next five years to
support some of these activities. Joint Donor/GOM quarterly meetings are being held, and annual
appraisal joint missions are to be fielded to monitor progress on decentralization implementation
on the basis of an agreed log-frame.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank fielded a sufficient number of reasonably staffed missions and carried out adequate
consultations during project identification, preparation and appraisal, but a number of critical
risks were misjudged in the project design. These issues are covered in Section 3.5, Quality at
Entry.
In summary, the Bank misjudged the risks regarding:
*     The government's commitment to policy reforms for decentralization.
*     The sensitivity of the local authorities' financial situation to downturns in macro-economic
factors.
*     The influence of technical assistance and training on local institutional and financial
capacity (see SAR para. 3.3).
*     The implementation capacity of MLG.
*     The viability of the DLFA in relation macro-economic factors and the creditworthiness of
the LAs (see paras. 2.12 and 2.13 of the SAR--there is no evidence of any risk analysis or
creditworthiness analysis).
Neither the "yellow cover review" memo (2/28/92) nor the "pre appraisal review" memo
(5/10/91) come to grips with these issues. The only mention of these risks is one reference in the
yellow cover memo to the weak finances of the councils. The memo states that this risk will be
mitigated by (i) the fact that most of the investments to be financed will be "income generating"
and (ii) the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the LAs.
A serious omission in the initial project design was the failure to establish indicators to monitor
- 26 -



project progress and impact with respect to any of the components. No monitoring framework
was put in place for assessing the impact of the government's policies or the project's
interventions on the local authorities' financial or technical performance.
A more realistic appraisal of the risks might have produced a more modest project, perhaps a pilot
or a technical assistance operation to test the government's commitment to local government
development and lay a foundation of policy reforms - especially the intergovernmental fiscal and
human resource framework - before moving to major capacity building and investment
components.
7.2 Supervision:
Again, the Bank fielded an adequate number of reasonably staffed supervision missions during the
life of the project. However, the record shows that the Bank was insufficiently pro-active in
addressing the problems that arose.
The Bank never effectively addressed the problem of performance monitoring.
The Bank failed to grasp the fundamental structural deficiencies of the DFLA which became
evident early in the project. The Bank intervened on the margins several times to increase the
shares of grant financing and reduce the shares of loan financing, but it never came to grips with
the larger forces that were rendering the DFLA unviable. The mid-term review in 1996 was a
major missed opportunity for re-thinking the whole concept. By the time a new Bank team took
over in 1999 and realized the magnitude of the problem, it was too late. The Bank is to be
commended at least for carrying out a detailed study and a workshop in June 2001 to analyze the
problems and propose a strategy to resolve them.
In the face of the stagnation of policy reform from 1994 onwards, the Bank could have intervened
forcefully to restructure the project, perhaps by scaling back the objectives, canceling components
or sub-components, re-thinking the financing mechanism as mentioned above, and re-designing
the implementation arrangements to provide more direct support to the local authorities. No such
actions were taken.
The Bank did not intervene forcefully to correct the obvious inadequacies of the Project
Coordination Unit. The PCU could have been overhauled at mid-term.
There also were delays at various times on the Bank's side with regard to reviewing documents
and giving necessary clearances (no objections). At certain points this was due to changes of task
managers responsible for the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
The Bank's performance is rated Unsatisfactory overall
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Ministry of local Government showed strong commitment to enhancing the effectiveness of
the local government system in Malawi from the earliest phase of projecl. preparation. This
- 27 -



emerged in particular during the workshop on "Strengthening Local Government in Malawi" held
in Mangochi in 1990. The government's commitment to a participatory approach was shown by
its decision to base the initial project proposal on the Council Development Plans developed by
the Local Authorities.
The borrower's approach was also grounded in realism, as shown in 1991, when the Department
of Economic Planning and Development and the Ministry of Finance requested (i) that the LGDP
be considered as the initial phase of a long-term process aimed at strengthening the local
authorities' fiscal and administrative capacity and (ii) that it be followed by a second investment
operation about three years from project effectiveness. Realism was also shown in the borrower's
recommendation to drop the "Economic Development" component and to focus on activities
more directly related to supporting the local authorities selected for infrastructure investment.
The government also supported limiting the scope of the infrastructure investments and reducing
the overall size of the project to about $50 million.
Unfamiliarity with World Bank procedures and inadequate communication among government
agencies and between the participating Councils and MLG resulted in some delays (e.g., 11
months between appraisal and negotiations and a three month delay in effectiveness). In addition,
project management, located in MLG, had competing demands on its time and was not able to
proactively follow up on day to day management issues. In fact, it emerged that structure of the
IvMLG was inadequate to support implementation of the project. The restructuring proposed
during the appraisal mission of May 1991 included devolution of management functions from
MLG to regional offices as well as to local authorities. The position of Commissioner of Local
Government was introduced for the purpose of providing policy oversight and managing policy
formulation. A Local Government Management and Finance Unit was also set up in MLG to
handle multiple management and administrative functions. In the event, these changes proved to
be inadequate to assure a sufficient level of performance by MLG once implementation started.
The above problems were exacerbated by the low-key role played by the inter-ministerial project
steering committee. The project did not gain "ownership" from key ministries such as Finance
and Works
7.5 Government implementation performance:
After the second supervision mission, less than a year into project implementation, it became clear
that new arrangements needed to be put in place to strengthen project management and
coordination. The Institutional Strengthening component was delayed by a lack of capacity in
MLG's training unit. The procurement of most studies under the Policy Reform component did
not proceed on time.
During the supervision mission of November 1993, it was recommended that a Project
Coordination Unit be formally established within the MLG structure (accountable to the Principal
Secretary) but with the specific responsibilities of implementing the Project and including a
Project Manager, a Project Accountant and a Project Engineer. However, the PCU was not
formally established until the end 1995, as preparation of the organizational structure and the
operating budget for the PCU were delayed. Major reasons were the restructuring of MLG,
which had in the meantime assumed responsibility over rural development, and the dissolution of
- 28 -



the elected councils in 1994. As of 1996, the establishment of the PCUJ, coupled with the
incorporation of an element of grant funding for infrastructure and equipment investments, led to
an increased pace of disbursement and progress being made on the project activities.
A number of significant problems with the borrower's performance are presented in Section 5.2,
namely:
*      A loss of macro-economic stability, manifested in high inflation and steep currency
devaluation over the life of the project.
*      Dissolution of the elected councils in 1994, without new elections until late 2000 which
rendered the councils unaccountable to their constituents.
*      A hiatus in policy reforms from 1994 to 1998 which left the councils unempowered.
*      Frequent changes of officials and staff.
Financial management for the project within the Ministry was weak A recently completed.
independent audit of the project for 1993/94 through 1999/2000 reported that there were many
intemal control and accounting problems that were common to each year, including:
*      No financial statements produced in any year to give a total comprehensive view of the
income and expenditure of the project.
*      Withdrawals into the local Malawi Kwacha account were not based on actual
expenditures.
*      A significant amount of expenditures did not have proper supporting documents.
*      No fixed asset register available for any of the seven years.
*      Bank reconciliations were not properly prepared and were not produced on a timely basis.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Please refer to Section 5.3 regarding shortcomings in the PCU and the local authorities.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The Borrower's perfornance is rated Unsatisfactory overall.
8. Lessons Learned
(a)   The shortcomings of the government in policy formulation and project implementation are
not unique to this project'. One of the clear lessons to emerge from the LGDP experience is the
need to establish a strong project unit. Such a unit needs to be well managed and have strong
financial and technical (engineering, procurement, enviromnental, community liaison, etc.) skills
7
As of November 2001, 3 of 12 active projects in the Bank's portfolio had long standing implementation problems,
and difficulties with policy dialogue affect several sectors.
- 29 -



recruited into it on a contract (suitably remunerated) basis. This in turn requires that clear lines of
responsibility and accountability between the unit and the ministry be established during project
design.
(b)   Given the risks inherent in govemance reform and capacity building, project objectives
need to be appropriately modest. Risk assessment and mitigation in project design must be much
more rigorous, including the scaling down of projects if necessary.
(c)   Bank supervision missions need to be (i) critically honest in assessing progress in project
implementation and achievement of the Development Objective and (ii) suitably interventionist
when components are clearly under-performing.
(d)   Building on the points made above, projects need to be designed in a performance driven
way (achievement of certain triggers before a next set of resources are provided or activities
undertaken - the Bank's APL is an instrument well-suited to this approach) and this in turn
requires the early design, adoption and implementation of a rigorous monitoring system (based on
the use of parsimonious but quantifiable indicators).
(e)   Local government projects can usefully link capacity building to capital investment (and
rehabilitation and maintenance) programs. The challenge is to ensure that positive incentives are
provided to the local authorities and that these are transparently linked to increased levels of
performance management (the antithesis of the perverse incentives provided under the LGDP,
where, for example, the better performing Assemblies were allocated smaller grant percentages
through the DFLA than weaker Assemblies).
(f)   Today the Bank is much more cautious about supporting special loan mechanisms for
local governments than it was when the LGDP was formulated. Whenever sub-national lending is
contemplated, a much more rigorous analysis should be carried out on both the supply and
demand sides. The burden is on the side ofjustifying (i) whether local governments are
creditworthy at all and (ii) if so, why a special financial intermediary is needed.
(g)   The LGDP has shown that, in the case of Malawi, the Assemblies will require grant or
matching grant funds for the foreseeable future. The allocation of these grants could be linked to
a mix of criteria based on Assembly performance, poverty indicators and investment needs (based
on, for example, regional needs).
(h)   By the 1990s, the Bank had phased out its support for sites and services schemes, based
on world-wide experience similar to that which occurred in the LGDP. Direct poverty targeting
in urban/local government projects is generally focused on community upgrading on low-cost
water and environmental sanitation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As of the date of filing, the Borrower's Comments and Contribution had not been received despite
various reminders
- 30 -



(b) Cofinanciers.
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
As of the date of filing, the Borrower had not subrnitted its separate evaluation despite various reminders.
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: No performance indicators were identified in the SAR as the Log Frame was not in place
at the time
Projected Outcomes                                Outputs
POLICY REFORM COMPONENT
Local Authority budget system study          Completed (1994)
Accounting and internal control systems in place -  Accounting system manual for Local Authorities
Budget and accounting procedures manual      completed (KPMG Peat Marwick, 1992)
Grants to Council Study                      completed (Price Waterhouse Panafrica)
Rating and Valuation Review                  Completed
Local Authority Financial Administration Analysis  Financial management of LAs study completed
(Deloitte and Touche, 1992)
Financial Management Workshop completed
(Deloitte and Touche, 1995)
Policy related training                      See table 1.1 below
Local Government Legislation Review:
a) Finalize review of LA legislation and propose  Local Government legislation review completed
modifications to describe expanded role and  (Solace International)
responsibilities for councils - policy workshop
leading to action plan
b) draft legislation, as required, based on the above  Adoption of a Decentralization Policy (1998)
Passage of amended Local Government Act (1998)
c) draft handbook clarifying the relationship of LAs Not completed
to central government, including guidelines for
council operation
Policy workshop on role of the District      Policy workshop on role of district commissioner
Administration vis the local Authorities     versus the local authorities completed
Study identifying the Financial, Human and   Completed (1992)
Management Resources requirements and
procedures for administering the THAs
Study for integrating LG revolving funds     Not completed
Workshop defining role of MLG and LAs in     Not completed
developing social services
Study and policy workshop to assess constraints on  Completed (M.G. Tsoka, 1994)
economic activities, deregulation, and to identify the
economic development potential of LAs
Development Fund for Local Authorities       Completed (2000)
-32 -



INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
COMPONENT
Preparation and implementation of a business plan  Five-year plan for MLG completed.
based on the MLG's new mandate in supporting the
development of councils. MLG senior management
and unit chiefs must adopt new operating
procedures based on implementing the business plan
Development and implementation of a more      Achieved
decentralized operating procedure and decision
making process
Reorganization and staffing of the MLG        Recruitment of key personnel of Chief local
government officer, principal Finance Officer,
Principal law Officer and Principal planning Officer
completed
Specialized advisory assistance to the MLG
Urban Management Adviser                      Not hired due to failure of co-financing plan
Chief Technical Adviser                       Not hired due to failure of co-financing plan
Training Consultancy                          Not completed due to failure of co-financing plan
Financial Analyst and Accountant              Hired
Estate Development and Management Adviser     Hired
Municipal Engineering Adviser                 Not hired due to failure of co-financing plan
Short Term Technical Assistance              Partially completed - six economists/financial
analysts hired
Purchase of vehicles, equipment and short life assets Completed - equipment and support for incremental
operation costs provided
Commercial related buildings                  Completed
Municipal infrastructure                      Completed
MLG courses and workshops                     Local government staff trained, including in-service
training, entry level training, and academic training
See Table 1.2 below for details
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT
COMPONENT
Lilongwe City Assembly
Provision of New Shelter - 3,200 serviced plots  Partially completed - 521 plots demarcated and
developed                                     allocated to public
Traditional Housing Upgrade                   Not completed
Waste Management                              Completed - Equipment for solid waste management
delivered and put to use
- 33 -



Works Yard Upgrading                       Improvement of market completed
Work Depot put to use
Geographical Information System            Completed
Malangalanga Altemative Route              Paving of Malalanga Road completed
Improvement of link ml -Malalanga Road completed
Blantyre City Assembly                     ___
Site and Service Scheme                    Chilomoni South Site and Service Scheme
Completed - 1.6km of surfaced road; 5.6km of
gravel road, 9.8km of storm water drains, road
fumiture, landscaping electricity and water supply
were provided.
Completed - affordable land plots for low-middle
income households provided - 483 residential plots,
50 commercial plots, 9 institutional plots
demarcated
THA Pilot Upgrade                          completed - 3.5km of roads and drains provided and
provision made for sanitation improvement
Produce Market Developments                Limbe Market - New food hall, fore court, 12-room
public toilets, refuse bunker refurbished, boundary
wall constructed, market master's office, electrical
works and refurbishment
Chilomoni Market - 12 open stalls constructed,
market area paved, existing sted refurbished and new
shed constructed
Ndirande Market extension not completed
Solid Waste Management                     Not completed
Nkolokoti Parkway Link Upgrading            Completed - 3.1 km road upgraded
Zalewa Road Streetlighting                 Completed - 8 km street lighting constructed
Computer Requirements - Computer Department  Not completed
Zomba City Assemblv
Upgrade of Ngongomwa and Chinamwali Secondary Completed
Markets
Bus Depot Improvements                      Completed - access road constructed, service block
provided, bus island canopy provided, toilets
completed
Vehicle Inventory and Acquisitions         Not completed
Works Completed not Planned in SAR
- 34 -



Mzuzu City Assembly
Luwinga site - 662 serviced plots for
low-income households completed
8.4 km road comnpleted
0.8 km lined drain completed
l . 1 km unlined drain completed
Blantyre City Assembly
Limbe Bus Depot - access road constructed,
service block provided, bus island and
canopy provided, gate houses and erection
of boundary wall completed
District Assemblies
M'mbelwa Resthouse at Mzimba Boma 80%
completed
Mphate market in Ntcheu District - stalls built,
coldroom completed, electrical works not completed
Kampepuza Market in Ntcheu District - sheds built,
market master's office completed slaughter house
and perimeter fence completed
Nsanje Market - lock-up shops, selling sheds,
toilets, canteen, perimeter fence completed
- 35 -



Table 1.1
Name of Course                             Date                  No. Of Participants
Basic Local Government Induction Course        July 1994                    25
Workshop on Management of Local Authorities in the  Nov. 1994                2
Era of and Reforms in Africa
Study Tour on Squatter Upgrade and Low Income   Aug. 1996                    8
Housing Development
Transfomnation of City and Town Councils in Africa  Aug 1997                 2
Local Government Reform and Decentralization    Aug. 1997                    I
management
Integrated Development Strategy Study Tour      August 1998                  8
Africities 2000 Summit                          May 2000                     8
Pan African Workshop on Community Participation  June 2000                    1
and HIV/AIDS
Regional Roundtable on Upgrading Low Income     Oct. 2000                    3
Settlements
Workshop for Chief Executives                   Nov. 2000
African Local Govemment Action Forum Distance   Nov, Dec. 2000               46
Leaming Workshops                               March, April, May, June 2001
Orientation program for Assembly Members        April/May 2001               Approx. 740
Table 1.2
Name of Course                              Date                   No. Of Trainees
Effective Manager Program                                  1993                          10
Advanced Leadership and Management Course                   1993                          I
Modem Techniques of Managing Committee                      1993                          1
Works/Meetings
Financial Management for Donor Funded Projects              1993                          10
Building Foreman Course                                     1994                          7
Construction management Program                             1994                          5
Certificate of Accounting                                   1994                         25
Effective Management by objectives                          1994                         26
Management of Training                                      1995                          1
Accounting Technician Course                                1995
Training Priorities in Local Authority Technical            1995                         44
Departments
Works Procurement Management Program                        1995                          5
Works Procurement Management                                1995                          57
Training of Trainers Workshop                               1995                         24
Councilors' Handbook                                        1995
Local Authorities' Administration and Management            1995
Handbook                                 _
Accounting Skills Application Workshop                      1995                          57
Management Skills Application Workshop                      1995                         63
Local Government Administration and Finance Course          1995                          25
Computer Training Course                                    1995                          12
Course on Local Administration and Finance                  1996                         25
IDA Procurement Seminar                                     1996                          3
- 36 -



Masters in development Planning and Project Planning        1996                          1
Training Delivery Skills                                    1996                          1
Masters in Development Planning and Project Planning        1997                          1
Masters in Planning                                         1997                          2
Masters in Urban Management/ Town Planning                  1997                          2
Masters in Local Government and Development                 1997                          1
Project Management                                          1997                          2
Orientation to Training 1997                                1997                         20
Local Government Administration and Finance                 1997                         23
Local Authority Accounting                                  1997                         36
Systems Maintenance Management                              1997                         35
Financial Management of Donor Funded Projects               1997                          2
Goods and Equipment Procurement Course                      1997                          3
Diploma in development Studies                              1997                          1
Micro-Computer Based Data Management                        1997                          3
LCA - Training on Budget and Budgetary Controls             1997                      approx. 12
Human resources Management Course                           1998                          2
Local Government Management Course                          1998
Environmental Health Course                                 1998                          8
Accounting, Budgeting and Budgetary Control                 1998
Diploma Program on Environmental Engineering                1998                          1
Diploma Course in Accounting                                1998                         16
Financial Management in Public Sector Course                1998                          3
Systems Engineering Seminar                                 1998                         15
Workshop on Procurement                                     1999                          8
Masters' Program on Environmental Engineering               2000                          1
Procurement Capacity Building Training Workshop             2000                          4
Training of Trainers                                       2000                          27
- 37 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent) _
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million   US$ million
Policy Reform                                      2.80          1.48            53
Institutional Strengthening                        9.70          4.97            51
Provision of Infrastructure                       17.00         10.63            63
Total Baseline Cost                               29.50         17.08
Physical Contingencies                            2.90
Price Contingencies                               3.90
Total Project Costs           36.30          17.08
Total Financing Required            36.30         17.08
'roject Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    15.00        3.80         0.00        0.00         18.80
(15.00)      (0.05)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (15.05)
2. Goods                    3.70         0.00         0.00        0.00         3.70
(3.70)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.70)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         4.20         3.50        7.70
(0.00)       (0.00)      (4.10)       (0.00)       (4.10)
4. Miscellaneous (          0.00         0.00         6.10         0.00        6.10
Operating Expenses and      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.07)       (0.00)      (0.07)
Other)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    18.70         3.80        10.30        3.50        36.30
(18.70)      (0.05)       (4.17)       (0.00)      (22.92)
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    3.37         8.68         0.20        0.00        12.25
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    3.32         0.00         0.08        0.00        3.40
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         5.13        0.00        5.13
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
- 38 -



4. Miscellaneous(                0.00                                        0.00          0.00
Operating Expenses and          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Other)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         6.69           8.68           5.41          0.00          20.78
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
The figures for the Waste Management component of this project are included under the Services Category.
The costs for Waste Management were $1,080,067.
` Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate                          l
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt. ICOF.
Policy Reform             0.95                2.30                                    0.0            0.0
Institutional Strengthening  5.08   5.66      0.65                                    0.0     0.0    0.0
Infrastructure and       18.00      3.40                                              0.0     0.0
Equipment
-39 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR presented economic rates of return (ERRs) for 11 of the physical investments including
sites and services schemes, road improvements, and waste management in Lilongwe and Blantyre;
markets in Blantyre and Zomba; and a bus depot in Zomba. The weighted average ERR for these
subprojects, which represented 52 percent of the total project cost, was 16 percent. The
economic benefits from the Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening components were not
quantified, but qualitative descriptions of the benefits were outlined.
No data were available to permit ex post re-estimations of the economic benefits of the actual
capital investments. The collection of actual quantitative benefits data for the various
sub-projects (e.g., actual payments for plots in sites and services schemes, traffic counts on roads,
actual costs per m3 of solid waste collected, actual incremental revenues from markets and bus
parks) would have been an enormous task beyond the capabilities of the implementing agencies
involved. Given the severe limitations on implementation capacity that persisted toward the end
of the project in the Department of Local Government and the Project Coordination Unit, it was
judged neither feasible nor worthwhile to organize a consulting contract to carry out such an
assessment.
- 40 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
FY85-FY9 1
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 15 - 30,                3    Mr. A. Zeijon, (Economist,
1991                             Mission Leader
Mr. G. Gattoni, Urban
Planner
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
December 9 - 18,             6   Mr. A. Zeijlon -Mission Leader
1991                             Mr. G. Gattoni, Principal Urban
Planner
Ms. G. Kajubi, Urban Planner
Mr. E. Clarke, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Mr. K.E. Lindberg, Financial
Analyst (Consultant)
Mr. H. Hartikainen, GIS Expert
(Consultant)
Supervision
September I - 10,            4   Mr. A. Zeijlon, Mission
1992 - Project                   Leader
Launch                           Ms. G. Kajubi Urban
Workshop)                        Planner
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Mr. P. Berrningham,
Financial Analyst
(Consultant)
May 10 - 21, 1993            6   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Mission
Leader
Ms. Gibwa Kajubi, Urban
Planner
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Mr. P. Bermingham, Financial
Analyst (Consultant)
Mr. David Kithakye, Municipal
Development Program
Mr. George Matovu, Municipal
Development Program
September 6 - 17,            3   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Mission
1993                             Leader
Ms. Gibwa Kajubi, Urban
Planner
Mr. P. Bermingham, Financial
Analyst                                    _____    _
- 41 -



April 18 - 28, 1994           4   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi ,Mission          S             S
Leader
Mr. D. Gallagher, Financial
Analyst
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer
Mr. G. Matovu, Municipal
Development Program
September 26 -                4   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Mission          S             S
October 6, 1994                   Leader
Mr. D. Gallagher Financial
Analyst
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer
Mr. G. Matovu of Municipal
Development Program
May I - 12, 1995              4   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Operations       S             S
Officer
Mr. D. Gallagher, Financial
Analyst
Mr. C. Banes, Municipal
Engineer
Mr. G. Matovu, Municipal
Development Program
October 16 - 27,              6   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi                   S             S
1995                              Ms. Judy Makanda, Financial
Analyst
Mr. Chris Banes
Ms. Damiam Gallagher
Ms. Mila Zlatic
Mr. George Matovu, Municipal
Development Program
May 6 - 22, 1996              7   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Mission          S             S
Leader,
Ms. Judy Makanda, Financial
Analyst
Ms. Marianne Fay, Economist
Mr. Chris Banes, Municipal
Engineer, (Consultant)
Mr. Damian Gallagher
Ms. Mila Zlatic
Mr. George Matovu,, Municipal
Development Program
November 19 - 22,             1   Ms. Judy Makanda, Financial         S              S
1996                              Analyst
January 19 - 29,              4   Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Operations       S              S
1997)                             Officer
Ms. Judy Makanda, Financial
Analyst
Mr. Chris Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Ms. Marianne Fay, Economist
-42 -



November 19 - 28,            4   M;s Judy Makanda, Mission           S             U
1997                             Leader, Financial Analyst
Ms. Asamanetch Fantaye,
Operations Analyst
Mr. Chris Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Mr. George Matovu, Municipal
Development Program
April 26 - May 2,            1   Ms. Asamanetch Fantaye,             S             U
1998                             Operations Analyst
July 6 - 24, 1998            4   Ms. Judy Makanda, Mission           U             U
Leader, Financial Analyst
Mr. Alan Carroll, Senior Urban
Specialist
Mr. John Kandulu, Infrastructure
Specialist
Mr. Chris Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
January 18 -                 3   Ms. Judy Makanda, Mission           S             S
February 1, 1999                 Leader, Financial Analyst
Mr. Chris Banes, Municipal
Engineer (Consultant)
Mr. Francis M'buka
July 7 - 16, 1999            4   Mr. Alan Carroll, Task Team         S             S
Leader
Mr. Lance Morrell, Senior
Financial Analyst
Mr. Jonadab Metibaiye, Civil
Engineer
Mr. Donald Mphande, Financial
Management Specialist
February 8 - 23,             5   Mr. Lance Morrell, Senior           S             S
2000                             Financial Analyst
Ms. Colleen Butcher, Local
Government Specialist
Mr. Jonadab Metibaiye, Civil
Engineer
Mr. Donald Mphande, Financial
Management Specialist
Mr. Francis M'buka, Responsible
for Decentralization
September 4 - 16,            5   Ms. Colleen Butcher, Senior         S             S
2000                              Urban Specialist
Mr. Jonadab Metibaiye, Civil
Engineer
Mr. Alan Carroll, Task Team
Leader
Mr. Francis M'buka, Responsible
for C'entralization
Mr. Donald Mphande, Financial
Management Specialist
-43 -



March 26 - April 6,          6   Mr. Alan Carroll, Mission          S             S
2001                             Leader
Ms. Colleen Butcher (Senior
Urban Specialist)
Mr. Jonadab Metibaiye, Civil
Engineer
Ms. Christine Kimes, Deputy
Resident Representative/Senior
Operations Officer
Mr. Francis M'buka, Senior
Program Officer
Mr. Donald Mphande, Financial
Specialist
ICR
August 24 -                  3    Colleen Butcher, Senior           S             S
September 7,                      Urban Specialist and task
2001                              manager
Mr. Jonadab Metibaiye,
Engineering Specialist
Donald Mphande, Financial
Specialist
Note: IP and DO ratings are indicated for the period after this rating system was introduced
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               72.1                       148.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    52.4                       100.3
Supervision                             208.5                       450.7
ICR                                       5.6                         8.7
Total                                   338.6                     708.5 *
* Dollar equivalent of staff weeks during each phase of the project cycle, excluding travel, fiduciary, trust fundsand
including consultants funded under BB.
-44 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=NModest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
b Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
l Sector Policies                       O H   O SU * M   O N  O NA
O Physical                              O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Financial                             O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
b Institutional Development             0 H  O SU * M    0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
LE Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Private sector development           0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  * NA
LI Public sector management             0 H   0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
-45 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
E Lending                                          OHS OS       *U     OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       *U     OHU
El Overall                                         O HS O S     * U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
E Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                          O HS O S     * U    O HU
- 46 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Malawi Local Government Development Project, Credit No. C2379 - MAI, Development
Credit Agreement
2. Staff Appraisal Report, Malawi Local Government Development Project, May 12, 1992
3. An Assessment of the Development Fund for Local Authorities and Proposals for Options
Regarding its Future", World Bank, June 2001.
4. Audit Report of LGDP Project Accounts, FY1993/94 to Fyl999/2000, Deloitte and Touche,
Malawi, October 2001.
5. "Decentralization Process in Malawi: A Technical Cooperation Programme 2001 - 2004",
Government of Malawi, July 2001.
6. "Report on Donor Roundtable Conference on Decentralization", Government of Malawi,
August 2001.
7. "Malawi Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfers Study", Georgia State University, April 2001.
8. "Improving Revenue Mobilization in Malawi: Study on Property Rates and Business
Licensing", Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, April 2001.
9. "Appraisal of Malawi's Decentralization Implementation Plan", Joint Donor/GOM Appraisal
Team, August 2000 and October 2001.
- 47 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23560
32        T. Dar Es                        34                                        36
C& 0w                     -A
1D5                            %i:')                                                               10
t \s   *  oN.^a*  \  vMALAWI
This snap has boon                   -O                               MALAWI - 
byctr deTh Worltd Baheonff3niehr3   t 9   ~s0              LOCAL GOVERNMENT
internaupse.ofnThe WorldoBnk             0'ln 5sn.s      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
and the bounddries shown   )        -,
;porhis of TdWordSo1nkGfo ),    RL       bl;
on)ugen nte o           @    XKt,s            
stoftot an"y torrituY or ony   o   Jr
endoarsment or acceptncr -oZ
sucb booundones.         ,    > 
s1h   NOdTr2rTVN   )                       O    PROJECr SITES
/ Eks4 ... ll ' \_ i               PRINCIPSL ROADS
JF0                              T\C.VNS
0 W  <>>   OSL lu;,or.  *  DISTRiCT CAPITALS
Mzirr-N.                                    N i  )1 /  NSONL CAPITAL
12  L^X.Ic3.    Chinumuo                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES    12-
12-                                                  ",CO1
ZAMBIA                   - -                     Lkwa I                REGION BOUNDARIES
i_}  >   t  INTiERN;TIONAL BOUNDARIES
I    ,              . | ILGr.5 Fb  :.~  40  6 0  oO 100
. n~ O  sa..c t r' *%o   , knlIa h          M*I.t, .!.  .;.  40   60
t    a                  '-
SNtn   FA   irri     NAIC)ZNAMBI(B   LIE
To Luska                  EGION     - D;cc 
.14          0.kurX     j      \\      /  o         \                          14
Es N-1b
<   -     <  --   ~~~~~* MarU.gxt.
.11 ski3>, 
MOZAMBIQL'E E                                      OL.u,s..
R       WNA  *KWA                             S Z
issuE      /    XToTele A
-'I   T-    <   ,.b>                     C   i     +hrs |16'  Chikn 16
To Beira
N'-     _   /                                          rTH) J <34  36
April 1992



