Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10342-MAI Type:  (SAR)                               ReportNo. 10342-MAI
ZEIJLON, A/ X34392 / J11127/ AF6IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 12, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            - Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                  - MK 2.96 (July 1991)
MK 1.00                  - 100 Tambala
SDR 1.00                 - MK 3.53
FISCAL YEAR (PY)
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)              - 0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                    - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ki)               - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       - 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
- 247 acres (ac)
1 imperial gallon (Ig)         - 1.2 U.S. gallons
- 4.55 liters
1 cubic meter (m3)             - 220 I8
- 264.2 U.S. gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCC         - Blantyre City Council
BMLP        - Building Materials Loan Programme
CDP         - Council Development Plans
CSP         - Country Strategy Paper
CTA         - Chief Technical Advisor
DEVPOL      - Statement of Development Policies
DFLA        - Development Fund for Local Authorities
DLV         - Department of Lands and Valuation
DTCP        - Department of Town and Country Planning
ECMAC       - Entrepreneurship and Capital Market Adjustment
Program
ESAF        - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOM         - Government of Malavi
HRID        - Human Resource and Institutional Development Project
ICB         - Internationat Competitive Bidding
IDA         - International Development Association
LAs         - Local Authorities
LASC        - Local Authorities Service Cozmmssion
LCC         - Lilongwe City Council
LGDP        - Local Government Development Project
LGSC        - Local Government Service Commission
LCB         - Local Competitive Bidding
MHC         - Malawi Housing Corporation
MIM         - Malawi Institute of Management
MLG         - Ministry of Local Government
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MOW         - Ministry of Works
NDF         - Nordic Development Fund
ODA         - Overseas Development Administration
OPC         - Office of the President and Cabinet
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
PSIP        - Public Sector Investment Program
SCDP        - Secondary Centers Development Program
SRP         - Special Rating Procedure
STC         - Staff Training College (Mpemba)
TA          - Technical Assistance
THAs        - Traditional Housing Areas
USAID       - United States Agency for International Developmeuit
WTP         - Willingness to Pay
ZMC         - Zomba Municipal Council



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(.)
1.    THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SECTOR
A.   Country Background  ..... .
B.    The Local Governmnt System  . . . .  . . .  .  . . .  2
C.    The Challenge of Urbanization. . . . ..            . . .5
D.    Local Government Structure  ..............7
S.    Deficiencies and Constraints  .                           8 . .    . . .  .  . . 8
Constraints Impeding Sector Performance   .  .  . . 10
Luman Resource Constraints . . . . . .  .  . . 10
Legislative Constraints  . .  . . . . .  .  . .11
Definition of Responsibility and Functions
Between Central and Local Government ...         11
Fiscal Constraints  . . . . . . . . . . .  .   . .  13
Insufficient Revenues  . . .   . .  . . * . . . .   13
Inappropriate Accounting & Budgeting .  .   . .  14
Lack of Credit..... . . . . . .  .  . .            16
F.    Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank Group Projects    . 16
G.    Rationale for Bank Group Involvement     . . .  .  . . 16
H.    Other Donor Agencies' Past Involvement....   18
,'.   THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin and Formulation  . . . . . ..18
B.    Project Objectives                .      ......   19
C.    Project Description     ....... ....  20
Detailed Project Description     . . . . .  .  .  . 20
Policy Reform  .    . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   .   . 20
Institutional Strengthening Component   .  .  . 22
Infrastructure and Services Component   .  .  . 24
D.    Project Cost andFinancingPlan . . . . .  .  .  . 25
Financing Plan. . . . . . . . . .     ...         .  26
Flow of Funds and On-Leding Terms  .   ..  .    . 26
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Malawi
in December, 1991, comprising Mr. Anders Zeijlon (Economii,t and Mission
Leader), Mr. George Gattoni (Principal Urban Planner), Mo. Gibwa Kajubi
(Urban Planner), Mr. Eugene Clark (Municipal Engineer), Karl-Erlk Lindberg
(Financial Analyst) and Mr. Hannu Hartikainen (GIS Expert). Peer reviewers
for this report were Messrs. fank Boldrick (ASS5N) and Bras Menezes
(LAlIN). Ms. Terry Gean provided secretarial support in the preparatLon of
this report. Mr. Stephen Denning and Mr. Isaac Sam are the managing
Department Director and Divlsion Chief, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



E.   Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
F.   Status of Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . 28
G.   Procurement Arrangements   ...       . ....  . . . . . 30
H.   Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
I.   Disbursement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
J.   Accounting and Auddting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
III. FINANCIAL IMPACT
A.   Ministry of Local Government  ... . . . . . . .. 35
B.   The Local Authorities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Economic Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
B.   Project Impact on Poverty . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
C.   Project Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Agreements and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
B.   Recoammendations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
TABLES
11.1t Su ary Cost Table
II.2: Summary financing plan
II.3s Procurement arrangements
III.1: Budget allocation and needs for MLG
FIGURES
1: Urban and rural population distribution
2: Urban population distribution
3: Serviced plots - numbers developed and required
4: Funding sources for urban councils
5: Interest rates and inflation levels
6s Income distribution in Lilongwe and Blantyre



ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Urban population data
Annex 2 - Detailed description of the policy reform component
Annex 3 - Detailed description of the institutional strengthening
component
a. Ministry of Local Government
b. Participating Councils
c. Training Program
Annex 4  -  Infrastructure and services component
Annex 5  -  Detailed Project costs
Annez 6  -  Financing plan
Annez 7  -  Project implementation schedule
Annez 8  -  Financial Analysis
Annex 9 - Environmental Assessment
Annex 10 - Economic justification
Annex 11 - Supervision plan
Annez 12 -  Selected Documenit on Project File
MAPS
Maps 1BRD No. 23560 - Malawit Local Government Development Project



MALAWT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                Government of Malawi
Beneficiariess           Ministry of Local Government
Amount:                  SDR 17.6 million (US$24.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
On-lending Terms:        An amount of US$18.5 million equivalent from the
proceeds of the credit will be onlent to
selected local authorit.es by the Government of
Malawi (GOM) to finance infrastructure
investments, vehicles and equipment. GOM will
on-lend to the local authorities at 13-15
percent p.a. over 5-20 years depending on the
component being financed. GOM will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Obiectives
and Benefitst            The  objective is to enhance the financial and
administrative capacity of the local government
system to a) provide and maintain municipal
services and infrastructure at a level
consistent with the affordability and with the
size and growth rate of the populition, and b)
finance such activities mainly with locally
generated funds, and improve the financial
management of such funds. Particular emphasis is
on strengthening local authorities' (LAs)
ability to provide serviced land for the growing
urban population, sanitation, road maintenance
and certain commercial services, i.e. markets.
Accomplishing this objective will contribute to
Government's macroeconomic objective of reducing
the central government budget deficit through
less pressure on central government support for
funding local authority activities. Improved
management of local infrastructure and services
will increase the efficiency in the use of funds
spent in the sector. In particular, costly
future upgrading and ad-hoc investments will be
avoided by ensuring that the rapidly growing
urban population is settled in an orderly
fashion. Finally, the investments and equipment
funded under the project will generate a flow of
benefits.



- ii -
Proiect Descriptions    The project consists of three componentss (a)
Policy reform of the local government sector
financial management, legLslation, institutional
set-up and its role in economic development.
Each area includes a study, workshop and action
program, the implementation of which will be
supported by a team of key staff and four
technical assistance positions in the Ministry
of Local Government (MLG). Total costs for this
component are US$3.2 million; (b) Institutional
strengthening including modifications in MLG's
organization, training for MLG and local
authority staff, equipment, funding for
incremental recurrent costs, and technical
assistance to MLG and local authorities. Total
costs for this component are US$11.7 million;
and (0) Provision of infrastructure investments
in three urban areas and provision of equipment
to enhance maintenance and operational capacity
of existing investments in six other areas.
Funding for this component will be onlent to
councils at positive real interest rates, and
repayments will be deposited into a revolving
fund where they will finance similar investments
in the future. Total costs for this component
are US*21.3 million. The estimated total
project cost is US$36.3 million.
Proiect risks:          The risks involve (i) the central government's
willingness to implement the action plans to be
produced under the policy component in a timely
manner, (Ii) the ability of the institutionally
weak MLG and local authorities to implement such
actions, and (iii) the pace at which the
entrenched control behavior of the central
gove-nment can be modified to create an
environment of self reliance and independent
decision-making in the LAs. A significant part
of the project will be oriented towards
institution building to mitigate these risks. In
addition, annual reviews will be carried out
where progress in the project's policy and
institution strengthening components will be a
prerequisite for continued implementation of the
physical investment components.



- iii -
Summary of Proiect Costs:
Local       Foreign            Total
---------°---US$ million----------
Policy reform                              0.7           2.1               2.8
Institutional strengthening                6.5           3^1               9.7
Provision of infrastructure
and equipment                             6.9          10.1              17.0
Base Costs                                14.1          15.4              29.5
Contingencies
(i)  Physical                           1.4          1 S                2.9
(Li)  Price                              2.1          1.11               3.2
Total Project Costs                       17.6          18.7              36.3
Summary of Financing Plan:
Local       Foreien            Total
--------------US$ million…------…---
IDAlI                                       8.0         16.0              24.0
NDP                                         0.1          0.2                0.3
ODA                                         0.3          0.5                0.8
UNDP                                        0.3          1.4                1.7
USAID                                       0.1          0.6                0.7
Government and councils                     8.8          0.0               8.8
Total finacing                             17.6         18.7              36.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year:              FY93  FY94  FY95- FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
--------------US$ million---------------
Annual                         1.7   2.0   2.8    4.4  4.4   5.2   3.5
Cumulative                     1.7   3.7   6.5   10.9 15.3  20.5  24.0
Economic Rates of Returns 162 2/
Ha:s IBRD No. 23560
1/ Includes a PPF advance of US$1.2 million.
2/ The ERR has been calculated for 80 percent of the investments and
equipment to be provided, i.e. for 52 percent of total project base
costs. ERR has not been calculated for the other project components.



1
MALAWI
LOCAL COVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SECTOR
A. Country Background
1.1    Malawi is located along the east African Rift Valley and has an area
of 119,140 square kilometers (km), of which 20% is covered by Lake Malawi,
and is landlocked by Mozambique, Zambia and Tanzania. Population growth
rates (3.3% per annum) are high and human resources are under-developed.
The economy is characterized by pragmatic and effective management, but
also by a fragile and limited resource base and by a narrow export base and
small domestic markets. With an estimated per capita GDP of US$190 (1990),
Malawi is one of the world's poorest countrie;.
1.2    Performance of the Malawian economy during the 1980s has been mixed.
Despite significant external shocks caused by influx of refugees from
Mozambique and soaring international transport costs that have effectively
closed the economy to the rest of the world, Malawi has been able to adjust
successfully to these shocks while maintainlng fiscal discipline and
continue its structural adjustment efforts. By 1990, the budget deficit
was reduced to 5.6% of GDP, inflation fell to 11.3% and growth rebounded to
4.8% p.a. in 1990 and 7.8% in 1991. The trade regime was substantially
liberalized with effectively no quantitative restrictions on imports,
moderate tariffs and a unified exchange rate. Major legal changes have
been implemented that have eased entry barriers, induced competition in the
firancial sector while the investment licensing system has been eliminated.
A comprehensive restructuring of the parastatal sector has been undertaken
since the early 1990s, comprising reorganization, divestiture, and cost
reduction which has led to good financial performance and improved
operating efficiency of 10 out of the 12 major commercial parastatals.
Reforms are ongoing in increasing the incentives for smallholders to
produce cash crops.
1.3    The economy of Malawi remains very fragile and subject to
fluctuations of international prices of a few primary crops. The country
has very few resources (land, raw materials, physical and human capital),
that can be easily activated in response to policy changes. More than half
of the population still live below the povekty level and Malawi ranks low
on most of the social indicators. The Government has increased its efforts
to broaden the participation of the population in enhanced productive
economic activities by strengthening private sector development.
1.4    The Bank's assistance and development strategy will be to pursue
wlth tha Government the process of further liberalization and opening of
the economy in order to boost economic growth and alleviate poverty. The



2
central development issues are poverty reduction and export
dlversification. At the project level, the key constraint in limited
project implementatLon capacity. The Bank's strategy includes:
(a)     reinforcing the role of the Bank in addressing human
reosurce development and institutional capacity buildlng at
the project and macro levels
(b)     developing strong partnerships and coordinatlon with other
donors; and
(C)     acting as a key catalyst to mobilize both financial and
technical assistance to support the reform program. The
proposed project responds to these directions as it
addresses the need to improve the public sector management
and enhance the financial and aeministrative capacity of the
local government system. The pro)ect is an indicator of the
Government'i more proactive approach to resolving problems
within the civil service and local government administrative
Sysv em*
B. The Local Government System
1.5    The central government maintains a high dogreo of control of the
three channels for public admLnistration, i.e. the central government
system, traditional authorities and the local government system. Central
government is organized in a fairly conventional manner in three regions,
each headed by a regional administrator, and 24 districts where a district
commissioner represents the central government at the local level. The 105
traditional authorities are based on a hierarchical system of chiefs and
headmen, and is the maln tool for communicating central government policies
to the rural areas. The local government system includes 24 rural local
authorities (also called district councils) and 12 urban local authorities
(also called urban councils) and are supervised by the Ministry of Local
Government .1/
1.6    Two pieces of legislation govern the sector and form the legal basis
for central government influence; the Local Government - Urban Areas - Act,
and Local Government - District Councils - Act, both legislated in 1965.
Means of control include government approval of councils' annual budgets
and expenditures, approval of changes in local bylaws, fees charged or
taxes imposed, introduction (or removal) of responsibilLties or functions,
1/  The 12 Urban Councils are  islands  of urban areas that have emerged
over time and been declared urban councils by the central government.
They are therefore separate from the district councils, but form part of
the central government district supervised by the district commissioner.
Urban and district councils and the central government districts often
have the same name. For example, Lilongwe district council and Lilongwe
city council are different bodies, but both belong to and are located
within Lilongwe district.



3
and of staff decisions above a certain leve l A further degree of central
government Lnfluenc* L exercLsed through the seoondment of central
government staff to local authorLtles, often to lnfluentlal posLtLons (town
clerk, treasurer). In addltLon, the dLitrLct commleiloners area of
responsLbilLty also lncludes the local authorlty areas. Some of the
councllors governlng each local authority are appointed by central
government while the others are elected.
1.7    The legislation also gives the local authorities permLssLon to
provlde a number of communlty services and infrastructure lncludlng
sanitatlon/solld waste managemont, road constructLon and maintenance,
prlmary health and school facilitioe, and commercLal enterprLeas 'such as
markets, resthouses and slaughterhouses. The two acts also glve le-
authorltles the rLght to adopt legally bLndLng bylaws, charge fe.  .id levy
taxes. DeopLte the broad mandate ln the legal acts, actual activitLes
carried out ln local authorltles are limlted due to pollcy and capacitf
constraLnts:
(a)    Core actlvltles ln the urban councils Lnclude provLiLon of
serviced land for low - and mlddle Lncom households,
sanitation (both solLd waste management and sowerage),
maLntenance of roads, and provision of markets. Flnanclng li
mainly from locally generated funds. About 11 percent of
Malawi's populatlon llve ln urban counclls.
(b)    The remaLnLng 89 percent of Malawis populatlon live in
diLtrLct councls. These are rural ln character and have, on
average, 300,000 Lihabltants each, often spread out over a
vast area. The actlvltles of the dltzlct councLls are often
limLted to a few key actlvLtLes, usually provldlng for
maLntenance of rural roads and admlnliterlng rural markets.
The actLvLtLes are largely funded by grants from the central
government.
1.8    The economLc turbulence of the 1980's revealed the weaknesses Ln the
local government system as local authorltles saw their capacity to provlde
lnfrastructure and servLces decllne. The flnanclal dLstress made lt
dlfflcult to retain qualiLfed staff, partlcularly englneers and
accountants. Local authorltles looked to central government for guldance
and assistance and in an attempt to stop the detorloratlon of services,
central government took over responaLbliLty for water supply, some prLmary
educatlon functions and the maLntn irnce of the major (trunk) roads
connecting ths urban roads to the "atLonal network.
1.9    Thli  assertive centralized management approach was a necessary and
effectlve response to the economlc problems affectlng the admlnlstratlon of
local government. A resultlng beneflt is that the urban areas have remalned
largely financlally self suffLcient and unlike in many other countrles Ln
the regLon, have not accumulated large defLilts or become totally dependent
on Government grants. Similarly, some forceful Lnterventions to stop fraud
and mlimanagement Ln the local authorities have been beneflcLal.
1.10   However, the centralized response dld not permlt servlce and
lnfrastructure levels to be malntaLned at anticLpated levels, and two



4
strong arguments for buildlng stronger and more independont local
authorltles that woul; manage the councls iln a more competent way in the
future have been ralisd:
(a)     As the financial and administrative needs of councils
expand, central govornment may not be ln a position to fully
respond. Local admLnistrators are best posLtLoned to
identify local noeds and responses. By localizing
administrative decisions, more responsive and accountable
government can evolve. The best course is for central
government to prepare local governments (and the local
government system) for a gradual assimllatLon of
responsibility for administerlng these areas. The new role
of central government therefore is to provide the policy
framework and *nabling environment under which a fortified
and energLzed local government sector can effectively manage
the growth.
(b)    Continuing central control will demand increasing resources
from central government whlch may jeopardize the recently
achieved macroeconomic stabillty. The alternatives,
including strengthening the local authorities, their ability
to finance their activities, and to exercise control by
letting them be accountable chiefly to their electorate is
emerging as not only desirable, but as the only feasible
alternative.
1.11   Conseuently, there is growing recognitLon that central government
has to redefine Lts relationship with local government and support
decentralization. This is manifested in DZVPOL which foresees the local
government system bonefitting from a careful decentralization of both
responaLbillties and authority. Government plans to achieve this through
measures such as selective expanslon of services that would be provlded by
local authoritisl- helping to improve the administrative capabilities of
local authorlti4-t and by reducing the reliance on seconded central
government staff in the local authorities.
1.12  001- has not been able to develop a strategy to back its
decentralization policies. Support of the policy has been limited to the
following three actions:
(a)     The transfer of responsibility for the management of
exlstlng, and expanaLon of new tradltional houaLng areas
(THAs 2/) in the major urban areas from central government
to the local authorities. While thls is entirely consistent
with the decentralization policies, it has also revealed the
difficultLes of imposing costs and additional work on local
authorities with a weak manpower bases
2/ THAs are essentially sites and services schemes where serviced plots
are provided for people to build shelters of their own choice according
to what they can afford subject to minimum building standards.



5
(b)     The tranuf-r of road maintenance responsibilities ln the
four largest urban areas to councils. An "Urban Roads
Study" ia being carrled out under the IDA supported
Infrastructure Project (7551-MA!), and is expected to be
completed by mld 1992. The study will outline a 10-year
program for local authorLties ln the four largest urban
areas to rehabilitate and maintaLn their roads; and
(c)     The production of council development plans (CDPs) by local
authorlties as part of the preparation of the proposed
project. The CDPe are to be updated annually to provide a
proper planning tool at the local level based on a thorough
understandLng of the likely future growth in the council
areas, the critLcal needs atd demands of lts inhabLtants,
and the flnanclal realltles of the councils.
1.13   These steps represent a good start. However, a more comprehensive
set of pollcy actions and a clear long-term strategy is needed. Reformlng,
strengthening and empowering the local government system is a lengthy and
complex process. A serles of planned and interrelated actions buildlng a
sound local structure needs substantial support.
C. The Challenge of Urbanlzatlon
1.14   Prior to the 1980's, Malawi managed to avoid problems related to
rural underemployment and rapid urban expansion commonly found elsewhere in
the region. A comblnation of policies supportlng the agricultural sector,
adequate resources avaLlable for producing urban land and a functioning
urban infrastructure and services delivery system enabled new rosidents and
emerging enterprises in the towns to be sittled ln an orderly fashion,
thereby avoLdLng the creation of urban slums or large illegal squatter
areas. This absence of "urban bLas" resulted ln a manageable demand
pressure on urban services whlch generally could be satisfied given the
resources available to the local authorltles.
1.15   However, urban population         Urban and  Rural Population
growth rates have accelerated, and
the most challenglng future task for                 m M al
the local government system ls to                         r
manage the growth of the urban areas.        *       
The three population censuses that
have been carrLed out concluded that
the growth rate p.a. Ln the urbaa
areas was 5.6% between 1966 and 1977
and 5.9% between 1977 and 1987. The        1966                   2000
correspondlng growth rates for the
whole population were 2.9% and 3.3%    pogur  1  The share of the urban
respectlvely. An urban growth rate of population is growing
6% pa. ls projected for 1987-2000.
ThLs implies that the number of urban dwellers would lncrease to about 1.8
million by the year 2000 compared to 840,000 in 1987 (and an estlmated 1.12
million ln 1992). This increase would bring the share of the population



6
lLvLng ln urban areao up to 15% from 11% in 1987. A table showlng the
prosent and projected urbanlzatLon of MalawL by major urban areas lo
dleplayed in Annex 1.
1.16   Two factors are likely to result ln the future urban growth rate
lncreaslng *ven further than indlcated above. Flrot, the lnflux of refugees
from Nozambigue amounts to about one mllion or more than 10% of Malawi's
total populatlon. The future of the refugees remaine uncertaln, but would
to the extent that they would stay ln Nalawl permanently affect the
mlgratlon to the urban areas. Second, part of XalawLis labor force are
mLgrant laborers. It Lq becomlng LncreasLagly difflcult for Malawl laborers
to secure employment ln the neighboring countrLes. Thli may also lead to
Lncreased rural-urban migratLon ln the future.
1.17   The urban populatlon li hlghly concentrated wlth close to 80% of the
urban dwellers rosLdlng in the four major urban areas, i.e. the clty of
Lllongwe, populatlon ln 1987: 233,976, capltal of Halawl and the central
region; the city of Blantyre, population in 1987: 331,588, commercial and
industrLal center and capltal for the southern regLon; clty of zuuzu,
populatlon ln 1987: 44,238, capltal for the northern region; and the
municipallty of Zomba, population ln 1987: 42,878, located near Blantyre ln
southern Malawi. The remaining 20% of the urban populatlon (i.e. 187,139
people) live ln elght towns (Balaka, Dedza, Kasungu, Llwonde, Mangochl,
Karonga, 8alima and Luchenza) and 18 smaller areas of urban character.
1.18  Any future strategy for
the urban sector of Malawl will                         Urban Population
have to conslder thats (a) the  600,000 .
vast majorLty of the urban t                             1g6B U 1987 E 2000
population will reside in the
four major urban areas and the  400,000       
largest lncrease ln urban
population will take place       200,000   |  .
there, and (b) the population 20,0
growth rates are slLghtly
hlgher for the smaller urban          0          o     _ 
areas. Thli would imply that            BbutreUongwe Mzuzu Zomba Othe
Malawl has to plan for setting   Figure 2: The urban population will remain
substantlal resources asLde to   concentrated to a few major urban areas.
enable orderly expansLon of the
larger cltles whlle planning
for fairly rapld urban growth ln the secondary urban areas.
1.19   The labor force in urban Malawi is about 500,000 people. Of these,
about 200,000 are formally employed and the remaining actlve ln the
informal sector. The formal urban economy has not produced employment
opportunltLes matchlng the urban growth rate. The average annual growth
rate of formal urban employment was 4.9 % between 1977 and 1985, lmplylng
that urban employment grew faster than the population ln general, but
slower than the urban populatLon. Thli leads to the conclusLon that the
share of the urban labor force that ls formally employed has gone down
(from 28% to 26% between 1977 - 1985) even lf a growlng part of the
populatLon fLnds employment in the towns.



7
D. Local Government Structure
1.20   The system consists of the following key actorus
(a)     The Ministry of Local Government (HLA) has the
responsibility for overseeing local authority operations and
coordinating central government programs impacting on local
governments. MLO is empowered to declare and define urban
areas, determine the number of elected and appointed
councilors and their time in office, approve (or reject) key
decisions relating to finances and staffing in the local
authorities, and is responsible for the approval of external
auditors and for the conduct of the annual fiscal audits of
the local authorities. ML is now being seen as the central
government agency that will take the lead in the
strengthening of the local authorities. To that effect,
Government is planning the gradual transfer of ongoing donor
activities impacting on local governments to the MM.
(b)     The Department of Town and Country Planninq (DTCP) in the
Office of the President and the Cabinet (OPC) is responsible
for physical planning in urban areas and for assisting local
authorities in develoyment control.
(C)     The Department of Lands and Valuation (DLV), also in the OPC
is responsible for conducting valuations and establishing
property records as a basis for the levy of rates (property
taxes) accrulng to local authorities, and for the provision
of land to be serviced for residential and industrial use.
(d)     The Malawi HousLng Corporation (NBC) has the mandate to
develop land and to construct and sell or rent out
residential housLng. NHC is one of the implementing agencLis
of the IDA-supported First Urban Project (5200 MAI)and has
been the agency in charge of managing existing, and
developing new THAs.
(-)     The Local Authorities Service CommLision (LASC) was
established in 1984 to oversee the recruitment and
conditions of service of staff in the local authorlties.
(f)     The 12 urban local authorities are each headed by a town
clerk and consist of five departmentst town clerk's
department, treasurer's department, health department, city
engineer's department and parks department. In the maller
towns some of the departments are typlcally merged. A mayor
and a deputy mayor are elected from among the council's
members.
(g)     The 24 rural authorities, or district councils, are headed
by an elected chairman wlth a clerk of council whose role is
similar to that of a town clerk.



Z. Deficiencies and Constraints Imcedlna Sector Performance
1.21   The shortcomlngs in the local authorltles' abillty to perform are
manifested primarily ln defLeL ncLes ln the provlilon of Lnfrastructure and
servlces. Thli la partlcularly notlceable ln the major urban areas where
demand for Lnfrautructure and servlces is hlgher and growing at a faster
rate than elsewhere. From the perspectLve of the urban populatlon,
weaknesses ln the local government sector are manlfested ln poor or non-
existent basLc servlces such as water supply, solid waste collection and
access to servlced land for resldentlal houxLng for low and middle lncome
households. The lmpact la most dramatlcally experlenced when there are
cholera outbreaks and floodlng durlng the rainy season.
1.22   ProvLsLon of servLced land (and supportLng Lnfrastructure) for low
and mlddle Lncome resldentlal housing ln the larger urban areas la the most
pressLng problem. There is nelther a functlonlng land market for low cost
houslng, nor a system for dellvering land with infrastructure on whlch to
develop housing and business. This affects about one third of the urban
populatlon which Lnstead has resorted to squattlng or rentlng ln unplanned
and unservlced settlements. These vary in character from regular squatter
settlements to pockets of unplanned constructlon ln exLstLng THAU.
1.23   The root of the problem li the sevore constraints on the land
market. It la estlmated that 6,000 new plots are needed every year to cope
wLth the growth of the urban populatlon ln the four major urban areas.
Actual productlon durlng the last flve years has been around 500 plots p.a.
In addltlon, at least 50,000 plots would be needed to re-settle the
residents ln unplanned area% and to reduce the overcrowdlng ln the *xlstlng
(nlanned) THAs.                       7(000
1.24   Provision of servlced land                    Plots peryea
to settle the growing urban           °°°         Developed    Required
populatlon ln an orderly fashlon ls
a prerequLilte for provldlng core     5000
communlty servLces, i.e. water,
solld waste collectlon, roads and     4.000
markets to the populatlon. It is
dlfflcult and very costly to          3000 .    ,
provlde such servlces on an ad-hoc
basLi to an unplanned area. Also,           .
the absence of servlced land (and
the assocLated legal tenure)
suppresses demand for servlces        1000        .    .
needed later on Ln the process of
securlng housLng, l.e. for mortgage      0  J       _     M       *    To_
financlng and constructLon                  BlaFte e UTonuwe Mb o   Zomba  Tot
servlces. There has, therefore,       Figure 3s The number of plots
been little interest shown from       required is mudh larger than the
prlvate sector financlers,            number provided
developers and constructLon
LndustrLes to dlversify and sell thelr servlces to this sector of the
market. Because of the above constraints the EntrepreneurshLp and Capltal
Market Adjustment Program (ECMAC) negotiations wlth the GQM (PFP, Sept.



9
1990) has developed a number of policy recommendations to address the above
land constraints which are also applicable to this project (See para. 2.11
and para. 5.1).
1.25   The problems associated with Malawi's unplanned settlements are nat
different from those in other countries. The squatter areas are
overcrowded, and the water, sanitary and transport conditions are extremely
poor. Frequent outbreaks of cholera occur, and considerable time and cost
is spent on transport for those working in other parts of the urban areas.
1.26   The absence of serviced land is a fairly neo  situation. Until about
1980 serviced land was provided by MHC and the investment costs were
largely funded by development assistance. MHC would charge a token fee for
rent - 14 20 per year - which was sufficient to cover a minimum of
maintenance and other recurrent costs, but did not leave funds for
developing new land. Demand grew both due to immigration and low plot
rents. With the halting of the development assistance, MHC had no means of
increasing the provision of serviced land as rents were set to cover
recurrent expenditures only. Currently there are about 32,000 THA plots in
Malawi and a waitlist for over 66,00. As noted above (para 1.24) the
actual need for serviced plots is much larger than the 66,000 recorded in
NBHC' waiting list - a number of people do not bother to apply since there
is little or no chance of actually getting a plot. Since the
responsibility of administering, managing and developing THA now lies with
the urban councils, there is a pressing need for councils to learn to
manage site and service projects as well as upgrading squatter settlements.
1.27   Provision of piped water is not directly a local government
responsibility. Lilongwe and Blantyre Water Boards in the two largest urban
areas, and the Department of Works (DOW) in other parts of the country have
the direct responsibility for water supply. The two water boards are
generally well run and financially sound. Local authorities are involved in
the water sector as they contract the water boards to provide water to the
unplanned areas from a basic environmental health viewpoint. An estimated
two-thirds of the urban population has access to safe water often provided
through communal stand pipes. Large portions of the urban population draws
water from unprotected wells since piped water is not readily available or
affordable.
1.28   About 15% of the urban population is connected to communal water-
borne sewage systems. lhe remaining 85% &..ave either septic tanks or use pit
latrines. Sanitation has become a major cause of concern in traditional
housing areas and squatter areas. Outbreaks of cholera and other water-
borne diseases resulting from poor sanitation are regular occurrences in
such areas. In Lilongwe, foe example, the environmental health issue has
been Ldentified by the City Council as one of the two main priorities.
Formal water-borne sewerage and sewage treatment facilities in Lilongwe and
Blantyre are in need of expansion and are generally poor. Poorly
maintaLned, over utilized pit latrines (up to 20 persons per single pit on
some plots in THAs) and inadequate means to provide a regular and
affordable emptying service are a potential and actual health hazard.



10
1.29   The primary road networks in the urban areas are generally poorly
maintained. Much of the secondary and tertiary road networks are not
bltumenized.
1.30   The management of solid waste, both collection and disposal, Ls also
inadequate. In Lilongwe, for example, only about 30% of the waste
generated in at present collected and this in haphazardly dumped at the
counclI tip site. A fleet of only eight aging vehicles cater for a city of
approximately 300,000 people. The situation in Blantyre and other urban
areas is similar.
Constraints ImPeding Sector Performance
1.31   The conutraints hampering performance of the local government sector
are discussed below grouped in four categories: a) human
resource/institutional capacityl b) legislative; c) unclear division of
responsibilities between central and local government; and d) fiscal
deficiencies. Constraints in all four categories are the result of poorly
conceived, outdated, or missing policies for guiding management of locai
government areas.
1.32   Human Resource Constraints The local government sector suffers from
shortages of qualified staff. This is mainly due to first, inadequate
qualifications among existing staff, and second, a vast number of
vacancies, currently estimated at some 600 positions. The vacancies are
particularly provalent at senior and mid-management levels. A training
needs assesment carried out in 1989 under the sponsorship of USAID
concluded that accountancy and financial management is the most critical
area. Treasurers and their assistants in the councils do not have the
appropriate qualifications. Other senior administrative staff (town clerks,
town engineers, supervisory staff) also have poor qualifications. The
elected representatives in the local authorities often have a poor
understanding of council management systems, revenue generation and
community development activities.
1.33   MLa has, based on the training needs assessment, estimated that some
3,400 persons would have to receive training in order to provide the
required skills to existing staff and to train applicants for the vacancies
in the local government system. This training would include 1,035 staff to
be trained ln accounting, finance, management and planning for higher level
staff; workshops and study tours for 939 persons; and courses for 1,422
elected representatives (councilors). It would seem excessive to provide
training for all staff as envisaged since some positions may not be filled
due to financial constraints or organizational changes. Nevertheless, a
comprehensive training program would be extremely useful for the councils
and MLa.
1.34   Any sustainable training activities would have to be based on local
ln-service training. Training capacity exists ln the training unit of MLG,
at the Staff Training College in Mpe-mba (ST), the Polytechnic in Blantyre
and in the Malawl Institute of Management (MIM). The training unit of MLG
has, with support from USAID and HRID carried out a number of workshops for
senior staff and elected representatives. One ML staff member is currently
assigned to the STCs where some training for local government staff takes



11
place. It is GOK policy to expand STCO training activities for the local
government sector, and further support to STC will be necessary to
implement that policy. The Polytechnic provides trainlng for engineers and
technical staff (publlc works management and engLneering techniques
specLfically adapted to local government servlces), and HIM provides
training for management staff (management traLaing for offlcers Lncluding
leadership traLning and analytic techniques).
1.35   Leqislative Constraints: LegLilation governing the sector should not
only allow councils to carry out a number of functions as it does now. It
should also impose certain duties on MLa and councils to strengthen the
coun t1s' control over their affairs. A review of the two acts governing
the .z:tor is lncluded in the proposed project and was initiated during
project preparation (funded by the Overseas Development Administration
(ODA]). Main conclusions so far includes
(a)     Present legislation allows for the Minister of Local
Government to OlLft out" urban areas away from the district
councils and declare them urban councils. The main criteria
is that the prospective urban council should be able to
generate its own resources for local government
infrastructure. However, proclamation of urban councils
deprive the surrounding district council of its main
resource base and leaves it financially worse off than it
was before. Some revenue sharing arrangement to make the
transition less traumatic for the district council should be
considered.
(b)    There are currently thre kinds of urban councilas cities,
municipalities and towns, and one kind of district councils.
Legislation could be ratlonalized so that only two types of
councis (urban and district counells) exist. The two acts
could be merged into one Local Government Act.
(C)     Present legal text defines the role of HLG as mainly
regulatory and controlling. The text should be reoriented
and charge MLG with the mandate of supporting and promoting
local government interests.
(d)    To promote local decision making, each local authority
should be charged with the responsibility of preparing
integrated plans for their development in conjunction with
other agencies.
1.36 The follow-up of the preliminary findings of the ODA-funded study
will include finalization of the study and drafting of new legal text.
1.37 Definition of Responsibility and Functions between Central and Local
Government: the allocation of duties within government has caused more
constraints for the local authorities than the actual legislation in the
sector. The centralistic tradltion wLthin government has manifested itself
in four main wayss



12
(a)    At the local level, the division of responsibility between
the (central government) distrlct commisoioner and the local
authority is not clear.
(b)     Local authorities depend on input from a number of central
government agencies to deliver their services, i.e. MHC and
DLV for the provision of serviced land, MOW for roads and
(outside Blantyre and Lilongwe) water, DTHP for planning
within the council areas. Institutional weaknesses and
cumbersome administrative routines in these agencies cause
delays and confusion. A particular constraint is that linked
to the recent transfer of the responsibility for managing
THAs from MHC to local authorities. There is little capacity
in local authorities to manage exiating THAs or to develop
new ones.
(c)    MMG, at the center of the local government system, has
increasingly become a controlling and implementing, rather
than service-oriented, institution. The centralistic
orientation is amplified by high turnover in key management
and operational staff and by the secondment of staff from
the ministry to local authorLties. To facilitate the
continued development of councils and their evolution to
effective managers of local growth, MLG should organize
itself to concentrate on facilitating activities which serve
to strengthen local capacity while loosening control to
those basic areas which in the short run are preventing
local authorities from performing effectively (e.g.
recruitment, setting land rents ln THAs). A modification of
the organization for the MLG to reorient the ministry's
mandate to one of service and support with an outreach unit
and one policy analysis unit was formulated during project
preparation.
(d)     From the local authority perspective, recruitment and human
resource management is difficult. In theory, LGSC keeps a
pool of people who rotate between local authorities while
the commission supervises and, if need be, disciplines
staff. In practice, most of the higher positions are filled
by staff seconded from MML. Such staff remain the employees
of the ministry, but councils are expected to pay their
salaries to Treasury. When positions not filled with
seconded staff are to be filled, there are complaints that
the LGSC is slow and in fact often holds up the process. In
addition, human as well as financial resources are extremely
constrained. Even if the system of seconding mlnistry staff
to the local authorities and working through the LGSC has
provided a certain degree of stability, its benefits to the
local authorities over the long run is questionable as it
blurs the responsibilLty of the local authorities. It is
desirable to strengthen the local authorities influence over
recruitment and staff rotations, and also to strengthen the
overseeing and servicing functions of LGSC.



13
1.38  Flical Constraintss Fiscal and financial obstacles a,e in three
&reas2 (a) Lnoufficient revenues; (b) LnapproprLate accountlng and
budgetlng procedures; and (c) poor access to credit.
Insufficient Revenues
1.39   After a long period of generally sound finances, the urban councils
saw their financlal surpluses shiftlng lnto deficits ln the mid 19800.
Despite the recent economlc stabilization, the finances of the local
authorlties have not recovered, and staff in the local councils often refer
to fundlng constralnts as the most severe problem. The biggest jvitential
for lncreasing revenues lies in the property taxes whlch are the most
important revenue rource for the urban councils. The main drawback with
property taxation is that they reuire actlve management from the local
authorities; involces have to be sent out and payments collected, new
buildings must enter the system and valuation exercises must be carried out
regularly. A number of these steps do not functlon properly, and there is
conoiderable room for improvement. Routlnes for the inclusion of new
buildings ln the tax base and the updating of valuation rolls should be
speedier. Present legislation requires a valuation roll of land and
improvements be prepared every five years. In addition, supplementary
updates may be performed. Even if any authorLzed valuer may perform the
valuation, the DLV actually performs the necessary surveys. Due to
understaffing ln DLV valuations do not keep pace wLth the growing towns,
leading to lost tax revenues. Updates more often than every two years are
infrequent.
1.40   The tax base should
be broadened to include
the THAs and eventually,
w j  *   | Rates  also the lnformal
settlements. This is
particularly important
*            ~~~~since a growLng share of
Blantyre       Ulongwe      Fees & Ucendes    the urban populatlon llve
and will continue to live
ln these areas. There has
Govemment Payment  been virtually no revenues
collected from THAs even
though counclls generally
[lOther      ~provide a minimum of
UJ  m O^erPservLies to these areas.
In the past MHC collected
a nomlnal amount (20 MR
Zomba          Mzuzu                        p.a.) for ground rent and
Figure 4: Urban councils rely maLnly on self-   development fees, and
generated funding.                               residents often confused
these payments with rates
levied by the local
authorities. Political pressures are also a factor since the THAs are
represented on the local councill. As the management of the THAs now is a
local authorlty responeibility, it will be Lmportant to form a constructive
relationshLp between residents and councils where charges for



14
Lnfrastructure "nd servLces are matched wlth good quallty and tLmely
dellvery of servlee. Some lmprovement was seen durlng project preparation
as Lllongwe and Blantyre started ratlng and taxlng the THA resLdents Ln FY
91-92. The results of thli are not yet documented. Squatter ettlements, a
growlng portlon of the urban populatLon, are not taxed, and llttle, lf any,
services are extended to theme areas.i/
1 41   Fees and charges constitute the second-moat important revenue
source. However, the HL approval procedures for lnereasing fees and
charges is too long. The prLncLple of cost recovery ln setting fees for
services is generally accepted, but not always Lmplemonted. Tralnlng ln
prLnciples of cost recovery and fee settLng for councll staff and
improvement ln the system for periodic adjustment are incorporated ln the
proposed project.
1.42   Central government contrLbutLons comprlse (a) payments Ln lieu of
rates, (b) minimum tax, and (e) grants. Payments in lieu of rates are ln
proporsLon to the stock of government buLldLngs and therefore mainly to the
urban councls, the mlnlmum tax is distrLbuted in proportlon to populatlon,
and the grants are malnly for the district couneLls. Property taxes can
not be lmposed on central government bulldlngs even though local
authorltles provide servLces to central government and Lts employees. A
paymnt ln lieu of rates is therefore ln place, but corresponds only to
between 0.5-10 of what the correspondLng property tax would be in the
larger towns. Even lf central government is struggling with its own budget
deficlt, it would only seem falr that adequate compensation was pald for
costs imposed on the local authorities. As lt stands now, urban resLdents
subsLdize the central government to the level of lost revenue were the
payment to be based on the real property tax. The collectlon
responsibillty for the minimum tax levy (MH 3.50 per year of whlch HK 0.50
is earmarked for the local authorltles) should be shlfted to the local
authorLtLes to lmprove collectlon efflciency. The grants are mostly pald
to the dLitrict counclls whlch often have no alternatlve source of revenue.
it Ls doubtful lf the grants can assLt the urban areas. There is, however,
a need to overhaul the rules and prlnclples determlnlng the amount and
dlitribution of the grants.
Ina2ProprLate Accountlng and Budaetlng
1.43   SubstantLal benefits could be realLzed by lmproving the local
authorltleso fLnancial management, budgetlng and accountlng. The rules
lncorporated ln the local authorlty legislation and regulations requlre the
preparatLon of annual budgets and the annual productLon of flnal accounts;
and ministerial approval to the appoLntment of external auditors,
identification and regulatlon of revenue sources, and establlshment of
local authority borrowlng powers.
3/ A tool for broadening the tax base to include THAs and squatter areas
exsLt through the special rating procedure (SRP). This enables local
authorities to impose a fixed rate on each building, thereby eliminating
the need for lengthy and complicated valuation exercLses. This has been
used in same TEAs, but with limited success.
/



15
1.44 As for accounting, the regular and prompt completion of final
accounts by th. local authorLties Le to be commended. seven of the nlne
counclls targeted for the proposed project have completed thelr accounts
for the flnanclal year ended 31 March 1991, whlst statements of affalrs
have now been prepared as at that date for the remalnlng two. However,
approprlate ln-servlce tralnlng is needed to lmprove the understandLng of
the accounts for flnancial management and plannlng purposes. The analysis
of the accounts both at MWa and at the local level focusses on operatlng
surplus.s while llttle attention is pald to debtors or the availabillty of
funds to meet creditors or provisions and consequent cash flow problem.
tend to be ignored. The format of the final accounts is generally
approprlate, but addltlonal beneflts would accrue lf the format used by the
three city counclIs could be based on standard charts of account.
1.45   Budgeting ln the local authorltles Lnvolves lnput from a number of
sources Lncludlng MLG which lnforms the local authorlties of the central
government contrlbutlons they can expect for the forthcoming flnancial
year; DLV whlch is able to predict future property valuatlons for rate
estimate purposes; and the heads of local authorlty spending departments
whose proposed budgets are collated by the councll treasurers and submitted
to the relevant councll commLttees and fLnally to the full councll for
approval. After councll approval the budgets are forwarded to the NIG for
examinatlon and approval or amendment. The MG examlnatlon focusses on
arlthmetlc accuracy, compllance by the local authorLties wlth grant
cellings and the regulation of proposed Lncreases ln rate levles, and fees
and charges.
1.46   The system for budgetlng ia generally unsatlsfactory and needs to be
strengthened and modlfied in a number of ways. Flrst, the local authority
budget cycle should be modified so that MLa can consLder the local
authoritLes' lnputs before it submlts Lts own requests to the Treasury for
central government funds. Budgets are seldom approved before the
commencement of the fLscal year to which they refer. ThLi is due to
operational dlfflculties at WA and to the date of commencement of the
local authorLty budgetlng exerclse. Budget preparatlon starts ln the local
authorLtLes in October/November after receipt of the indicative grant
ceilings from NIG. Thlo late commencement together wlth the lengthy
approval processes incumbent in the local authority committee system delays
submlsolon to MIG until December or later. MG's capaclty to approve the
budgets is limlted by staff vacancLes ln the finance cadre causing further
delays ln the approval process. The urban councll legislation pro.ides for
continued operatLon pending minLiterLal approval but the dlitrict ^ouncl1
legLilation contalns no such provlison and thelr operatlon without budget
approval is technically illegal.
1.47 With the *xception of the Lllongwe clty council none of the target
local authoritiLo prepares an acceptable capital budget. A system of five-
year rolling plans should be introduced and lntegrated into the overall
budgeting exercise. With the lntroductlon of the proposed project, thli
approach will be necessary ln order to plan cash flows and loan dlspersals.



16
Lack of Credit
1.48   The final financial constraint concerns the difficulties for local
authorLtLis to obtain credlt. Thero are currently throe channels for loans
to councls, neither of whlch meet the total needs of the counclIs. First,
some commercLal bank lendlng has been extended to the largest urban areas,
but only on short term basLs and at hlgh Lnterest rates reflectLng the
uncertalnty banks face ln lendlng to a now sector. Thls makes lt dlfflcult
for local authorLties to flnance larger Lnfrautructure lnvestments and
completely impossLble for smaller councils to get any commerclal fundlng.
second, subsLdlzed fundlng is avallable for selected local authorltles
through the fW-supported Secondary Centers Development Project (SCDP).
Infraatructure credlt. are granted at interest rates of about 8-9% p.a.
Thlrd, a revolvlng fund into whLch local authorlties deposlt flnanclal
surpluses was established ln the early 1980's. As the economy deterlorated
so dld tho repayments lnto the fund, and lt is no longer functlonal.
1.49   The flnanclal management problems are signlfLcant and linked to the
weak human resource base from whLch MLM and councils recrult. A thorough
overview of flnanclal management ln the sector is needed.
P. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Projects
1.50   The Infrastructure Project (7551-MAI) whLch became effectlve in 1990
is the most recent and relevant operatlon ln the sector. It deals wlth a
natLonal plan increasLng the MOW capaclty to sustaln the country's physLcal
assets in roads, water supply systems and publlc bulldlngs. Durlng the
short implementatLon perlod, the importance of slmpllfled lmplementatlon
structures has become apparent.
1.51   Previous lnfrastructure projects as well as the Flrst Urban Project
(5200-MAX), effectlve ln 1984, have shown that cost recovery, lnstltutlonal
development, and maintenance of lnvestments are potentlal problem areas.
Standards for sLtes/servlces are sometlmes set too high to be affordable
for the targeted groups of the populatlon. Recent experlence from the
overall Malawl lending program shows a weakenlng lmplementatlon capaclty ln
GON. A comblnatlon of tralnlng, TA and supportlng studLes are included ln
the proposed project to enhance the LnstLtutional strengthenlng. Provislon
of funds for Lnfrastructure will be linked to the flnanclal performance of
the local authorltles Lncludlng flnanclal abillty to malntaln Lnvestments
and implementatLon of policies to recover costs. Affordable standards will
be applied to the sLtes/servLces components.
G. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.52   The proposed project is lntended to lay the foundatlon for a
profound restructurlng of the local government system ln Malawl.
Reformulating polLcies and practices, redLrectlig functlons and
responaLbilltLes, and bullding the concomltant LnstitutLonal capaclty to
have an effectLve operating local government system is a long-term (10-15



17
year) proco.s which would build on IDA's and other donor's earlier offorts
to rehabliLtate lnfrautructure by bulldlng local govornment technLial and
flnanclal capaclty. Strong, offectLve local governance, operatlng wlthln a
conduoLve enabllng envlronment, La the substructure needed to better manage
rapldly growing villagoe, towns and citiesj enhance the *conomlo output of
the rural/urban economy, extend servLces to the low lncome groups and begin
to lmprove the livlng envLronment of the population. Bulldlng a strong
local government system wlll also create better flical management and self-
suffLclency, and is essential for the promotion of prlvate LnltLatLves and
buaLness. Thli fLts well wlth the stated decentrallzatLon objectLve, of
0OM. Recently lnltlated reforms that wlll provlde a more supportive pollcy
envlronment and lmprove human and flnanclal resources Ln councils are a
good start. A varlety of donors are supportLng Government efforts by
provldlng technleal assistance, tralnlng, and Lnfrastructure ln pllot
towns. Whle- these activLties underscore the lmportance of local
government ln the current phase of Malawi's development, a clear policy
frategory "C". The Project would lead to *lgnlflcant improvement and
tangible beneflts to the envlronment ln the councll areas. Crltlcal
sanitation deficiencies whlch have created extremoly poor envlronmental and
health condltLons, partlcularly ln the THA and squatter areas Ln the
citLes, would be addressed by the provlison of improved potable water
supplies, additLonal latrines ln order that greater numbers of people have
access to proper facilitles, thereby reducing the pressure on exlstlng
latrlnes and the use of open spaces and watercourse. and improved
collectlon of refuse. Drainage would also be improved and extended ln the
THAs and squatter areas in the citLes reducLng the rlsk of floodlng and lts
attendant detrlmental environmental and health effects.
1.53   The solld waste management components ln Lllongwe and Blantyre would
both lmprove ad expand service levels by provldlng more collectlon
vehicles thus benefitting more people and providing a more regular and
rellable service. Spontaneous garbage dumplng that currently exLits in
lower income areas would be reduced and there will be less need to resort
to drains, watercourses and the digglng of pits on plots for the dumpLng of
refuse. Environmental condltions should improve conelderably as a result
of the expanded contalnerizatlon and collection facilities. In addition,
the improperly managed landflll sltes Ln the two malh cltles would La
operated as controlled sanitary landfllls. The new landfill sltes belng
ldentlfied ln the cltles will be developed followlng normally accepted
sanltary landfill standards and subsequent operational practices. They are
located at approprlate dlstances from resldentlal areas and would not have
a negative envlronmental impact.
1.54   The envLsaged road maintenance program for whlch fundlng will be
sought after completlon of the Urban Roads Study will also have a posLtlve
envlronmental framework for strengthening local governments promotlng
*ustalnabillty and repllcabillty ln servLoc provision has not been
established. There li a need to ensure that strongthening actions target
key problems and that assistance programs are coordinated and
complementary. IDA's lnvolvement ia regarded as important ln having CO0
focus on the essentLal pollcy element of the overall urban development
strategy, and provldlng a comprehenaLve framework for donor collaboration
ln support to the local government system.



18
H. Other Donor Apen=es' Past Involvement
1.55   project prop ration was carrled out in close collaboration wlth
other donor agencLes already involved in the local government sector. A
brief descrLption of thelr respectlve actlvitles ia provlded below.
1.56 KfW funded the production and early lmplementation of the National
PhyaLcal Development Plan through pilot activlties in four cltles under the
Secondary Centers Development Project (SCDP). arnt funds are provided and
onlent to local authorities to build essential infrastructure and oporate
it on coemorcial grounds. While the SCDP project has been successful in
providing identLfLed infrastructure investments, lt has illustrated the
problem of cost recovery. The onlendlng rates to the local authoritles were
recently lowered from 12% to 9% to enable repaymonts. Simllarly, there have
been difflculties in getting MLO and the local authoritLes involved in all
phases of project implementation.
1.57   ODA and the Brltish Council have provLded technlcal assistance in
the form of three expatriate town clerks (for Lilongwe, Blantyre and Msuzu)
and tralnlng for their counterparts. A number of council officers and NLa
officLals have been trained in Britain.
1.58  UNDP has provided assistanco to MLa through two expatrlate posltLons
for the Tochnical Services Project and also funded program interventions in
the fleld.
1.59 USAID is funding the Human Resource and Institutional Development
Project which includes an expatriate trainlng specialist that has been
establishing staff courses ln Local Government issues for the MLa and
councils.  This has included a training needs assesment for the MLO and
local authorities and a proposal for a long-range training program.
1.60  All the above agencies have continued their actlve support of the
local government system and continued their support by directly helping
identify and prepare this project. ODA, UNDP and USAID are likely to
participate in the project and KfW is currently revising the implementatlon
arrangements for the SCDP and the scope ox strengthening the Lnvolvement of
MLa and councils in that project.
I. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin and Pormulation
2.1   00  is increasingly emphasizing the need to strongthen local
authoritles. In parallel, IDA's experiences of the FLrat Urban Project
(5200-MAX) indicated that future work in the urban sector should focus more
on local government rather than on central government parastatals. This
conclusLon was reinforced by IDA's Local Government Review (No. 8349-MAI)
whlch investigated the policy setting and oporational characterlstics of
the local governsent system and identified actions to improve its



19
functLonLng. A workshop durlng project ldentlflcatLon brought together MLa,
local authorltlis and representatLves from other relevant 0o0 agencies Ln
January 1990. The partlclpants defLned and reached consensus on the *cope
and approach of tho proposed project.
2 2   One product of the workshop was the acknowledged importance of
adoptlng a partLclpatory approach ln preparLng the project by havlng the
local authorltles artleulate thelr neds and deslgning the project around
these. Nlne local councLls, representlng a wlde geographlcal spread as well
as in sLze and other characterLstice, were ielected. In October 1990, a
second workshop, supported by a team of internatLonal and local consultants
(joLntly funded by the Bank and the UNDP), provLded guldance to the
counclls ln preparlng thelr Council Development Plans. An lntermlnLaterLal
commLttee was also set up to gulde and supervsLe the preparatLon of the
project. A team of lnternatlonal and local consultants were contracted
wlth PPF and UNDP funds to prepare the project.
2.3   As the work of the counclsr and the consultant team progressed, a
consensus developed that the project should contain three major componentsr
(i) an overhaul of the local government system wlth the aim of
strengthening the enabling envlronment for the local authorltles Lncludlng
the creation of a revolving fund to enable a future fundlng mechanLim for
local authorltles, (ll) LnutLtutLonal strengthenlng of MLa and the largest
local authorltles, (lll) provLsLon of inputs to strengthen the operatLonal
capaclty and maLntenance standards of exLitLng Lnfrastructure Lnvestments
and other assets ln the councls together wlth new prlorlty Lnfrastructure
investments ln the major urban areas.
B. Proiect obiectlves
2.4   The maln objectlve Li to put ln place a combLnatLon of related
actLons that will collectlvely bring about a stronger, more effectlve
system of local government ln MalawL. These are bulldlng blocks for
enhanclng the flnanclal, managerlal, and technical capacity of the local
government system to: a) provlde and maLntaln eswentlal munLcipal servlces
and lnfrastructure at a level conaLstent wlth affordablilty and wlth the
slze and growth rate of the population; and, b) flnance those endeavors
malnly wlth locally generated funds, whlle lmprovlng the flnanclal
management of such funds. Partlcular emphasLi is on strengthenLng local
authorltles, abllity to provlde servle-d land, sanltatlon, road maintenance
and certain comercLal servLces, l.e. markets, for the growing urban
populatlon.
C. Project DescrLptLon
2.5   The project conslsts of the followlng three intor-related
components:
(a)    Pollcy Reformt ModifLcations to the legal and LnstLtutional
framework for the local Government system wlll be carried



20
out through a series of policy studies, reform advocacy
workshops, and the implementatlon of associated action
plans. This will be organised in four areass (1) legislation
revliw, (Li) duties and responsibilities of central and
local government agencies, (iii) revenue mobilization and
flnancial management, and ($v) human resources.
(b)    Institutional Strengthening: This will include (i)
modifications in NW's organLzation and procedures supported
by the provision of vehicles, equipment and other
incremental operating costs related to the project for MLa
and selected councils; (Li) training for M3¢ and councils
staff at local training institutions; (iii) specialized
asslstance to help reorganLze the NLG and implement a phased
decentralization of certaln WLA functions; (iv)
establishment of improved internal operatlng procedures; and
(v) building technical capacity within MLa divLlons.
(c)    Provision of Infrastructure and Services: This will include
(i) plant, vehicles, equipment and services required to
rehabilitate and improve maintenance of existing
infrastructure and other assets in nine local councils, and
(ii) new infrastructure investments in Lilongwe, Blantyre
and Somba. Funds for infrastructure investments, vehLcles
and equipment will be onlent to the participating local
authorities and the repayments will be re-lent to other
local authorities able to carry out essential infrastructure
and services through a Development Fund for Local
Authorities (DFLA).
Detailed Proiec% Description
A. Policy Reform
2.6.   GOa  actions to change and improve how the local Governments operate
is currently hindered by not having the analysis of alternatives nor the
plans for implementing reforms. The Policy Reform Component will assist
government in formulating alternative polLcies; identifying and removing
bottlenecks (i.e. over-regulation); to facliltating discussion and decision
making regarding appropriate actions; and, in lmplementlng those actlons.
Thls component will consist of a series of studies, workshops, and
assocLated actlon programs as outlined below. A team (para. 2.19) of key
MLa staff and four advisers (ln municipal management,
maLntenance/engLneering, human resources and financial management) financed
by the project wlll monitor implementatlon of the policy reforms. A time
table for implementing this component is in Annex 2 and has been desLgned
to enable adoption of the recommendations of the studies and workshops
during lmplementation. The timetable was agreed on durLng negotiations.
(L)    Area 1: Review of legislation. This includes a review of the
two acts currently governing the sector. A study will be
completed, new legal text drafted, and legal changes
enacted. Proposed changes would be discussed at a hlgh-level



21
workshop. A second part of legislation roview will
concentrate on bylaws and other regulations Lisued by the
local authorltles themselves. This study and policy workshop
would focus on a wrgulatory audit" to asess constraLnts on
economic activlties, deregulatlon, and to ldentlfy actLons
whereby counclls can promote ecor3mLc development, lncluding
the private and informal sectors.
(ii)    Area 2: Division of responsibliLtLes and function between
central and local government agencLes. A pollcy workshop on
the role of the distrLit commlsLoner versus the local
authorlties will help deflne thelr respective
responsibilities. Other actlvlties Lncludes
(a) a study identlfylng the financlal, human and
management resources requlrements for admLnLstering
the THAs,
(b) a study to ldentlfy procedures for LAs local
authorLtLes to gain tlmely access to land for
development, and
Cc) a workshop deflnlng the role of the MA and local
authorities in developlng soclal servlces.
(LLL)   Area 3: Financial resources management. This includes a
number of sub-studles, workshops and actlon plans to improve
fiscal performance of councils (partLcularly those
participating in the project) and MLG. Subcomponents
include:
(a) a comprehenslve review of the local authority
budgetlng system and procedures, from whlch
recommendatLons wlll be made to:
i.   implement a simplified, rolling plan system for
capltal budgeting, and
li.  produce a Budget Manual;
(b) a review of exietlng accountlng procedures throughout
the local authorlty system wlth a viow to:
i     developLng and adoptLng a standard chart of
account and common accounting prLnclples, and
LL.   preparLng an Accountlng Manual that wlll be used
by all councils;
(c)  a reassessment of the exlitlng agrements for central
government payments ln lieu of rates wlth the aim of
payments reflectlng economli costs imposed on local
authorLtLes, and a revlew bf the grants system to



22
district councils wlth a vLiw to establishLng a
formula for allocatLon, admlnlstratlon, rules,
performance, atc.
(d)  LdentLfLcatLon of alternatlve sources of revenue
generation and mobliLzatIton and recommendations for
lmprovlng rates and collectlons (study and workshop),
and productLon of financLal performance lmprovement
plans for selected courcLls;
(e)  make recommendatlons to upgrade the productlon ot
supplementary and quLnquennlal valuatlons and the
expanded use of prlvate valuerst
(f)  an analysLs of systems and procedures to lmprove Ma
financial admlnlitratlon (workshop);
(g) study to defLne procedures for integrating local
government revolvlng funds and onlending arrangements.
(iv)    Area 4: Human resources managament. A study to deflne
improvements ln the local authority personnel system
including the role of ths LSC.
2.7    The policy reforms will be facliLtated and monltored by a small core
team of key MLW staff and four rosldent advisors ln key functlonal areass
general urban/munlclpal management, technlcal services, flnance, and
traLning. Thli team will also be responaLble for assisting ML0 ln lts
reorganLzat ion (under the project's institution strengthening component,
para. 2 19) and establishing new internal operatlng procedures that
emphasLze delegatlon of authorlty and horLzontal communication. The team
will strengthen the management and technlcal capaclty of MMW staff ln their
respectLve departments. Furthermore, the team will serve as a brLdge across
the various project components.
B. InstLtutLonal Strengthenlng Components
2.8    DecentralizLng HLG functions on a reglonal basLs 1/ is an
objective of thli component. DecentralisatLon will be phased to allow NW0
to work out the relatlonships between a flild offlce and the central offLce
and to expand the responsLbilltLes of the field offlces in stop by step
approach. The first phase wlll focus on extendlng the outreach/assiLtance
aspect of the NW. As capaclty ia bullt and subject to the eventual
redefinition of central/local authorlty relations, some of the control-
oriented functlons such as budget approval will be decentralized. Thli
project component la described ln detall ln Annex 3.
41 In addition to its head quarters in Lilongwe, ML0 has regional
offices in Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Blantyre.



23
2.9    The Institutional Strengthenlng component conslsts of three parts:
(L)    A major thrust of the project li to reorlent, reorganlze and
euLp MLG. A comprehenslve 5 year actLon plan lncludlng
modlficatlons ln MLG's organization hau been developed to
help move the MM toward the servlce and pollcy orlentatlons
that are envlsaged ln the new minletry mission statement,
i.e. to build MLa capaclty to make lt provld, the dlrectlon
and support needed to bring stronger and more responsLve
local councils. Support for thls action plan wlll be
provlded ln the form of (i) eulpment and support for
incremental operatlonal costs (offLce technology equLpment,
vehLeles, lncremental staff costs, travel subsistence, etc.)
on a decllning bases (para. 3.2 and Table 111.1)1 and (LL)
technlcal assistance ln the form of one accountant, one
estate manager, and slx economlets/flnancial analysts
(UnLted Nations Volunteers) totallng 276 consultant months.
TORs for the technlcal assistance posLtLons were finalLzed
durlng negotiatLons.
(LL)    Instltutional strengthenLng of the four maior urban
councils. ThLs lncludes (i) lncremental staff and runnLng
costs for admLnLstratLon, flical and financial management,
plannlng and provlilon of servle s for the THAs; (LL)
refurbishing of the vehLcle fleets ln Mzuzu and Zomba; (LLL)
studLes for THA and squatter areas upgradlng ln all four
councLls; and (Lv) two technlcal aseLstance posLtLons of 24
months each for development of malntenance systems, project
development and constructlon, property and housLng
management (for Mzuzu), and fLnance and accountlng (for
Zomba). The outputs of the polley component (revLsed
leglslatlon, budgetlng and accountlng manuals, etc.) wlll be
used by MLG and made avallable to local authorltles, wlth
specLfic actions targeted to select counclls needlng
aseietance in redresslng poor financlal performance.
(LL1)   A training program to lnerease the capaclty for (i) in-
service tralning at the managerial and line staff levels;
(LL) entry-level training; and (LLL) academlc tralnlng ln
local government management-related areas. The eritical need
is training exieting staff at the managerLal level.
Centralized tralnlng will be conducted at Staff Tralnlng
College (Mpemba). Because of the limited number of senlor
level staff (town and district clerks, treasurers,
englneers) and the relatively hLgher level of expertLse
requlred to provide tralnlng required for thli audlence.
The project will fund strengthening of the training
management and technlcal capaclty there as well as the
establishment of a network of traLnLng resources that could
servlce trainLng programs at Mpemba. Staff Tralnlng College
will also be the slte for servlce entry orlentation and
tralnlng. Regionalised tralnlng through the regLonal offlces
of M1A will be developed for mld and operations-level staff.



24
The project will fund the preparation of materials and
training activities. The project will also target academic
programs at the Univeroity of Nalawi and Polytechnic to
prepare entry level personnel for service as local
government managers. A letter of understandlng between NLa
and the training institutes about the range and scope of the
training was presented to IDA during negotiations and a
proposal for analyzlng the institutional strengthening needs
for STC wlll be submltted to the MunLcipal Development
Program (MDP) (para. 5.1.).
C. Infrastructure and Services Component.
2.10   The following support will be provlded to councils to expand
services and to operate and maintaln existing investments and equipment:
(i)    Lilonqwe: provision of surveyed sltes and supportlng
lnfrastructure for one new THA, upgrading/rehabilitation of
one squatter settlement and one THA, vehicles, equipment and
civil works to increase efficlency of solid and liquid waste
(sanitation) management, upgrading of works depot, upgrading
of one access road and parking for a down-town market area,
and establishment of a geographical information system for
the c'ty councill
(ii)    Blantyret works, vehicles and equipment for enhanced
operations and maintenance for solid waste management,
surveyed sites and supporting infrastructure for one now
THA, upgrading of one THA and two markets, and geographical
information system with supportlng computer equipment;
(iLL)   Zomba: upgrading of two markets and the bus depot, vehicles
and equipment; and
(lv)    Vehicles, equipment and upgradLng work in six other local
counclls, namely Mzuzu, Salima, Luchenza (whlch are
benefitting from new investments under the 8CDP), and the
district counclls of M'Nbelwa, Ntcheu and Nsanje.
2.11   A detailed description of the investments and equipment under thls
component is provided in Annex 4. An action plan for ensuring that the
sites and servLces and upgrading components will take place on unencumbered
land was submltted during negotiations. All steps needed to make the
necessary administrative and legal changes to enable the transfer of
unencumbered land to the councils is condition of Credlt effectiveness
(para. 5.1. and 5.2.).  The recently negotLated ECMAC Credlt includes
policy measures that will help facilitate thli process. It is expected
that the Urban Roads Study, currently being undertaken under the
Infrastructure Project (7555-MAI) will outiLne a 10 year program for the
four major urban areas to upgrade and malntain urban roads. Implementation
of thLs program wlll demand funds for equlpment, vehicles and servlces. It
was orlginally envlsaged that funding for thLs would be provlded under the
proposed project. However, since the study is not yet complete, no funding



25
has been met aside for this purpos. It is therefore expected that IDA, as
part of the supervision of the project, will assist G01 to identify funding
for the urban roads program.
2.12   Funds for infrastructure, vehicles
and equipment component of the project will  35%
be onlent to the local councils through a      30
Development Fund for Local Authorities         3-             '  I atereste Ia
(DFLA).  DFLA will be created as a             25        , 
government trust fund and will receive the   20
repayments of all onlending.  Interest
rates will be set so as to link the local
authorities to the market oriented interest  10_
rates. After having been determined through   5*
purely an administrative process in the         19S5I                      11
past, interest rates were deregulated in       ___
mid-1990. As a result the bank rate (the      Figure 5 Malawi now maintains
rate at which the Central Bank lends to the  positive (i.e. higher than
commercial banks) has been higher than        inflation) interest rates
inflation since then.  Establishment and      following deregulation of the
staffing of the DFLA is condition for         financial sector in mid 1990.
Credit effectiveness (para. 5.2.)
2.13   To maintain positive real interest rates, positive the interest
rates employed for the onlending to the local authorities would be linked
to the Central Bank rate as follows: Infrastructure investments - bank rate
less 1%, five years grace period, 20 years repayment period after the grace
period; other loans - bank rate plus 1%, 5 years repayment rate. The
interest rate employed would be adjusted according to the Central Bank rate
every six months. Agreement on the onlending arrangements was reached
during negotiations and the establishment of a GOM trust fund to receive
repayments from councils is condition for credit effectiveness (para 5.2.).
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.14   The total project cost is estimated at Malawi Kwacha (MK) 111.2
million (US$36.3 million equivalent) of which about MK 53.8 million
(US$17.6 million equivalent) or 49% is the foreign exchange component. This
includes physical and price contingencies. Base costs are expressed in
January 1992 prices. Summary project cost estimates are shown in Table
11.1 on the following page; and detailed cost estimates are given in Annex
5.
2.15   Project costs for the services and municipal infrastructure
components were estimated on the basis of preliminary engineering designs
and recent similar contract prices and for equipment and vehicles on the
basis of recent quotations. Land acquisition costs are not included. Cost
estimates for technical assistance, training and management staff support
are based on recent actual costs for similar activities in Malawi.
2.16 Phyilcal contingencies are estimated at 10% of base costs. Price
contingencies are based in the following assumptions for local inflation:



26
6% in 1992 and 5% p.a. thereafter; and the followLng for LnternatLonal
(US$) inflation; 1.8% ln 1992 and 1993 and 4.2% p.a. thereaft-r. In total,
prLce contingencies are stimated at 12% (in US$) of base cost plus
physical contlngencies.
FinancLna Plan
2.17 The proposed IDA Credlt of US$24.0 million would flnance about 66%
of total project costs. The remainlng 34% would be provided by      UNDP,
ODA, USAID, partLclpating councils and GoH (NW).  Table 11.2 summarizes
the financing plan and Ls found on page 30.
Flow of Funds and On-LendLna Terms
2.18 The IDA Credit will be made avallable to GMK for a period of 40
years, lncluding 10 years grace, at the standard IDA service charge. The
share of the IDA credit that would be passed on to local authorities would
be onlent with repayments accruing into the DFLA (para 2.12). GO would
bear the foreign exchange risk of the IDA Credit.



27
Tatd t.: MALAWk LOCAL OVERNMENW  DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
9hnauy Cod Tas (Jan 1962 pdoca)
Lawi KWh  000o                   US Dola. 000O
LDo W               ToFa  jIfLOW        Fw          Tota
L POCLIY REFORM
sbdAs and Woebchops               1065      1651      2686       350        626         976
Advisr                     107S      4291       6864       862      1460        1812
Sub4ota                    2107      6142       6250       712      2075        2787
L  NS1TnUTIONAL STRENOTHENNO
hmxxntal Opwrafting Cob,W MLG         4108      1125       62S7      1386       380        1766
Advams, MLO                    718      2870      J66        242        970        1212
EWlpm  MntL MW                    0      2282      2282         0        771         771
icrmentl Operting Cos,t Coauncl        10079       176     10256      3406         60        34E6
Advisonr, Counsms               213       652       1066        72       286         360
sidlm, Couaic                   346      1365      1732        117       408         585
Tranng                      5863      9e6      4478       1210       303        1513
Sub4otb                   16041      9585    28629        6433      3239        9672
IL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
EQLUPMENT
Lloanws                   14495     16423      30917      4697      5548       10445
Ianiyro                   O567       10036     15102      1712      a9w0        5102
zorba                       756       630       1288       256       179         435
Olien                       248      2967      3216         84      1002        1086
Sub4otm                   30570      29954     50521      6948      10120      17066
TOTAL BASE COST                 41715     46ee4     67400      14095     15434      29527
Phy sa  Co*gancdas                4120      4501      am         1392      1521       2913
Pio C tlainca                   6015       7177     15192      2065       1743       38E0
TOTAL PROJECT COST               53651      67363    111214    17550       18696      36246



28
E. Implementation Arrangements
2.19   The lead agency for the.project and the focal point for
communicating with IDA is MLG which will monitor the overall progress of
the project, coordinate with the respective councils and other agencies
impacting on implementation. A mid-term review would be carried out not
later than August 1995 with preparatory work starting not later than one
year before that date (para. 5.1.). To ensure satisfactory and timely
implementation a project coordinator has been appointed within MLG. The
coordin.tor will use the support of the MLG management assistance team
which have been established by MLG. Progress in the implementation of the
policy component will be assessed annually by the project coordinator
(assisted by the management team), and presented to IDA in the form of a
report. Progress made would be compared to the performance of the other
project components to ensure balanced implementation.
2.20   The councils will have primary responsibility for implementing their
respective council development plans which the project will support.
Assistance to the councils will be given by MLG through its outreach unit.
Because of the diversity of project activities and the size of programs in
Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba, direct assistance will be included for these
local authorities. Important areas where assistance would be given are
financial management, planning, lands and estates administration (for THAs)
and municipal engineering. An estimated 24 man-months of technical
assistance for this purpose has been included in the project.
2.21   Project implementation will be expected to begin in late 1992 and
would be carried out over a five-year period. The target project
implementation schedule was developed during appraisal using profiles for
similar project-type activities in Malawi and on detailed engineering of
the project's civil work components being completed by project start.
Preliminary engineering is completed and finalization of the detailed
engineering is condition for credit effectiveness.
F. Status of Project Implementation
2.22   The following project preparation activities have been completeds
(i) MLG has completed a project proposal which serves as a basis for the
proposed project (available in the Project File); (ii) three workshops with
representatives from central and local government agencies as well as from
the donor community have been held and their outcome incorporated in the
project design. In addition, a donors conference has been held to discuss
cofinancing arrangements. A project coordinator, one of the Principal Local
Government Officers in MLG and the MLG management teams have been
appointed; (iii) A revised organization of MLG to support its ability to
service the local authorities has been agreed on and has been approved by
the Ministry of Finance (MOF).



29
2.23   The following activities related to the three project components are
underways
(a)     Policy Component: (i) Review of legislation; a first draft
report has been completed and its findings and
recommendations are being discussed; and (ii) financial
management study; the sub-study dealing with the
establishment of a mechanism for, and the
coordination of provision of credit for the local
authorities is underway. Identification of individuals to
carry out the sub-study regarding central government payment
in lieu of rates and other grants from central government to
local authorities is underway. Commencement of the study is
a condition of credit effectiveness (para 5.2.).
(b)     Institution Strengthening: (i) equipment has been provided
to expedite project start-up. This includes office equipment
for MLG; (ii) two advisory positions in MLG have been
filled; the urban management adviser, and the
training/personnel adviser. The Chief Technical Advisor
position is not yet filled, but a sanitary engineer assigned
to MLG is de-facto filling the position until the
arrangements regarding this position has been finalized; and
(iii) a training needs assessment including a training
program proposal has been completed.
(c)     Infrastructure and Services Component:  Feasibility studies
and preliminary design of the infrastructure investments in
Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba have been completed. Bids for
the detailed engineering work for the Lilongwe proposal and
for a study on solid waste management are being evaluated.
Bids for procurement of equipment for solid and liquid waste
management is being finalized. The detailed engineering and
bid documents for this project component is to be finalized
as a condition for credit effectiveness (para. 5.2.). A
study on plot allocation procedures to be used is underway.
Agreement between Government and IDA on suitable procedures
to be used is condition for disbursement for the sites and
services and upgrading components of the project (para.
5.1.)
2.24   Funds for project preparation were made available through two
advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) amounting to US$1.2
million. The preparation of the MLG project proposal was funded jointly
with UNDP, the review of legislation and the urban management adviser are
being funded by ODA, the training proposal and the training/personnel
adviser by USAID, and the sanitary engineer carrying out many of the CTA
duties by UNDP.



30
TajI  MALAW  LOCAL GOVERNMENr DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Su_o Rwk Pbn
Us Dab^ w, O
*    INOP  !Rg     MM    MIDP   OM    Cuncls    To
I POLICY REFORM
swds snd Woehops   946       0   150       0      0     0        .0   108
Avmos            0    7     6       667     0      0         0    2094
Sub4u          946    70   816    M         0      0         0    3193
W STUTONAL
STRENOHEMNO
h    ea"M   Oprth   1105     0     0      0      0   1034        0    2139
CoN* MLG
Advksci MLO      486 OI6        0       0     0      0         0    1387
Equlpttw MLG      672      0     0      0      0      0         0     872
hko_.mt Opse1n       70      0     0      0      0      0      4331   4401
CoS OoundW
Ad¢sm.Oouno        406     0      0      0      0      0        0     406
AdIe,Cos.mel       0       0     0       0    46      0         0     654
TranI         1557      0     0      0    250      0        0    1807
Sub40l        56    960       0       0    296  1034      4331   11886
U. NFPASTRUCRE
AND EOUPMENr
Ilongm        1064      0     0       0     0      0      2285   13129
labntyrs      5314      0     0      0      0      0      1108   6422
Zointba        564     0      0      0      0      0        0     554
OIier        1269      0     0      0      0      0         0    1289
8ubW          16001     0     0      0      0      0      3393   21394
TOTAL        24000  1710   16    67    208   1034         M4   36248
G. Procurement Arrangements
2.25   A summry of procuremnt arrangements is given in the table on the
following page. Annex 7 includes a disaggregation of procurement
arrangements by funding source, procurement method and packaging.  IDA will
review invitations to bid, the proposed awards and final contracts for all
contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more.



31
Table 11.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1L      E  E lC IBl55   OTHER                                 TOTAL
A. CM Waft an k*uauftn    15.0      3.8                        18.8
(15.0)   (0.5)                       (15.5)
B. VeMe and Equmht         3.7                                  3.7
(3.7)                                (3.7)
SublokW                   18.7      3.8                        22.5
(16.7)   (0.5)                       (19.2)
C. stud  g'ah*,                              3.5      42        7.7
s_hals and ayce
(4.1)     (4.1)
D. Op. ep. and Otw                                   6.1       6.1
(0.7)     (0.7)
Subto                                        3.5    10.3       13.8
(4.8)     (4.8)
Total Poctost             18.       38       3.5    10.3       36.3
(16.7)   (0.5)             (4.8)     (24.0)
Nab: F%Km hI pwmehs am ft eesp _OL, amount find by IDA
Procurement of consultants services (studies, workshops, training and technical
assistance) will be ln accordance with IDA guidelines in "Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Uxecuting Agency", August 1981, and
procurement of works and good would be ln accordance with IDA guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", May 1985.
2.26   With regard to the IDA funded contracts, procurement of the waste
management components in Lllongwe and Blantyre and the other major civil works
contracts in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba would be on the basis of international
competltive bidding (ICB)* Theme contracts would include the sites and services
development, area upgradlng, and road works. Some smaller contracts such as
market repairs and maintenance yard Lmprovments Ln Zomba would be more conducive
to local competitlve bidding (LCD). The bld documents for these components would
be prepared by the respectlve local counell wlth the assistance of local
engineerLng consultants and the MG management asositance team. After review by
NLO the bid document packages would be submitted to IDA for review. The total
5/ Competltive bidding, ie, procurement in line with cofinanciers'
guidelines.



32
valuo of (ICB) civil work packages to be bid in this way is approximately US$15.0
million (LncludLng phyaLeal and prlce contLngencLes) and for LCB li approxlmately
US$0.5 mllion. In addltlon, LCB contracts of US$3.3 millLon would be funded by
the councils. The works are to be phased, takLng lnto account implementation
capacLty limltatlons of the respectLve local authorltles, over the greater part
of the seven year project perlod.
2.27   LCB procedures ln Malawi have been reviewed by IDA and are acceptable.
The procedures will lnclude advertleement ln local newspapers, public bld
openlng, speclflc crlterla for bld evaluatlon, includlng the evaluation of post
qualiflcatlon criteria, and contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bldders. Forelgn bldders who wLsh to partlclpate ln the LCB bidding process will
not be precluded from partlclpation.
2.28   VehLiles and equlpment for the various agencies and three major councils
wlll be packaged together as approprlate and bld through ICB procedures. In this
way bld documentatlon and procedures wlll be reduced and advantage will be taken
of economLes of scale. Procurement would be arranged through MLG which would
take dellvery of and dletribute the required vehicles and equipment to the
respectlve councils. Lllongwe and Blantyre city councils would be responsible
for preparing bld documents, usLng consultants as necessary, and procuring their
own vehicles and equlpment includlng vehlcles and equipment for solid waste
management, agaln followlng ICR procedures. The value of contracts for supply of
vehLcles and equlpment through ICB procedures is approximately US$3.7 million
through the ML. Bld documents for all vehicles and equipment to be procured
through ICB will be subject to review by IDA. The MW will maintain a produced
quarterly report on the status of procurements made.
2.29   In Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba where councils requlre consultants to
prepare final englneerLng designs and bid documents, and to assist in
constructLon supervisLon, such consultants would be engaged by the respective
local authoritles implementing the projects. The qualifications, experience,
method of engagement, and contract terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to
IDA. For preparatlon of bid documents for vehicles and equipment for all other
local authorlties the MLG wlll procure the required consulting services on their
behalf agaLn following procedures for engagement acceptable to IDA.
2.30   The technical aseLstance consultants flnanced under the project will be
engaged in line with the respective procurement rules of the financing donor.
2.31   The General Procurement Notlce will be published in the Development
BusLness Forum at least 60 days prlor to the Lssue of the bid documents. A
margin of preference of 7.5% will be granted to domestlc oLdders ln ICB for works
contracts. A timetable for procurement under the project is attached in Annex 7.
H. EnvLronmental Impact
2.32   The project's envlronmental rating is category "C".  The Project will lead
to slgnlflcant improvement and tangible benefits to the environment in the
councll areas. Critical sanltatlon deficLencLes which have created extremely
poor environmental and health condltions, partlcularly in the THA and squatter
areas in the cLtLes, will be addressed by the provLsLon of improved potable water



4'
33
supplie, additional latrines in order that greater numbers of people have access
to proper facili$tie, thereby reducing the pressure on existing latrines and the
use of open spaces and watercourses and improved collection of refuse. Drainage
will also be improved and extended in the THAm and squatter areas in the cities
reducLng the risk of flooding *nd its attendant detrimental environmental and
health effects.
2.33   The solid waste management components in Lilongwe and Blantyre will both
improve and expand service levels by providing more collection vehicles thus
benefitting more people and providing a more regular and reliable service.
Spontaneous garbage dumping that currently exists in lower income areas will, be
reduced and there will be less need to resort to drains, watercourses and the
digging of pits on plots for the dumping of refuse. Environmental conditions
should improve consLderably as a result of the expanded containerization and
collection facilities. In addition, the improperly managed landfill sites in the
two main cities will be operated as controlled sanitary landfills. The new
landfill sites identifled in the cities will be developed following normally
accepted sanitary landfill standards and subsequent operational practices. They
are located at appropriate distances from residential areas and will not have a
noaative environmental impact.
2.34   The envisaged road maintenance program for which funding will be sought
after completion of the Urban Roads Study will also have a positive environmental
spin-off by improving the condition of roads and drains, reducing the number of
potholes and clogged utility trenches which often result in stagnant pools of
dirty water during the rainy seasons and which are factors in the spread of
vector borne diseases such as malaria as well as being hazardous to motorist and
pedestrian.
2.35   The municipal vehicles and equipment to be procured through the project
will also have a positive environmental impact. Since many authorities do not
have proper facilities for the regular and sanitary emptying of pit latrines,
cesepools and septic tanks, vacuum tankers would be provided where required,
thereby reducing the incidence of facilities over-filling capacity, resulting in
pollution of the environment with the attendant health hazards and spreading of
disease.
2.36   The improvements to and around existing markets will focus on drainage,
sanitation, solid waste management and provision of water supply as necessary.
These improvements together with paving will eliminate vendors trade in
consumable products in mud during the rainy seasons will again have a positive
environmental and health impact.
2 37   Programs in Lilongwe and Blantyre to upgrade existing THAs which have run-
down Lnfrastructure, dysfunctional drainage systems, over-utilized on-plot pit
latrines and lnadequate water supply will not only provide significant health
benefits but improve the general environment. Numerous squatter settlements
exist in the main areas centers and the upgrading programs proposed for Lilongwe
and Somba will focus on sanitation and drainage so that residents of these areas
will not be forced to take water from polluted shallow wells or to defecate in
open spaces. Positive environmental and health benefits will result.
2.38   The demonstration sites and services project in Lilongwe will incorporate
improva_ents to the squatter settlements existing on the site. The sites and



34
services layout in designed so that no residents of these squatter settlements
will be removed from the site. The squatt-r areas will be upgraded as described
above. The layout has also been prepared so that existing tree belts will be
retained and watercourses improved. Compensation for crops removed during
constructlon will be paid as approprlate ln accordance wlth the laws of Malawi.
Similar principles w$i1 apply to the schemes Ln Blantyre. A detalled plan for
compeneation for any affected households ln the upgradlng components will be
agreed to after completlon of the detalled englneerlng and is conditlon for
dLibursements for the respective project components (para. 5.1.).
2.39  Annex 9 lists percelved pouLtLve and negatlve envlronmental impacts for
the major phyaLcal components of the project and outlines proposals to be adopted
to mitigate negatlve impacts.
I. Disbursement
2.40   The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed againsts
(L) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85 % of local expendltures on
civll works and waste management contracts;
(LL)   100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and  quipment;
(LLL)   100% of expenditures for studies and other consultancy and
advisory services; and expenditures for training costs;
(iv) 57% of expenditures for Wa operating costs and salaries. 6/ up
to a max$mum of US$420,000.
2.41  As projected by the Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements
would be completed by June 30, 1999. Disburaements would be made against
standard IDA documentation. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOZ) for contracts and purchase orders wlth a total
value of less than US$50,000. In order to ensure the timely provisLon of funds
avallable to flnance the capital costs of the project, it is proposed that the
Government establish a Special Account in the amount of US$750,000. Funds in the
Special Account would be avallable to finance only eligible expenditures under
the Project. During negotiations agreement was reached regarding the
arrangements for establishLng and operating the SpecLal Account. Up to US$35,000
may be used to retroactively flnance incremental operating expenditures occuring
after January 1, 1992 but before project effectiveness. Agreement on plot
allocatlon and compensation procedures wlll be condltLons for disbursement for
the upgradlng and sites and services components (para. 5.1.).
6/ Incremental operating costs would be covered on a declinLig basis by
the project, i.e. up to US$35,000 in 1992, US$60,000 in 1993, US$100,000
in 1994 and 1995, US$60,000 in 1996 and up to US$65,000 for all years
thereafter.



35
J. Accountlnc and Aud$tinc
2.42 Project accounts would be prepared by MLa for the overall project and by
Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba for their respectlve parts of the project. The
project accounts would ldentify all sources and uses of funds ln carrying out the
project actlvltiLe, includlng a detailed accountlng of the use of the proceeds of
the IDA Credit. The project accounts would be audlted by an lndependent audltor
acceptable to IDA and the aud$t report submitted to IDA wlthin nlne months of the
end of the fLical year. The project accounts, audlt reports would also contain a
separate oplnlon on the statement of expenditure (SOB) procedure when utilized.
2.43   In order to monltor the flnanclal performance of Liongwe, Blantyre and
Zomba councis, their flnanclal statements (includlng balance sheets, lncome
statements as well as sources and appllcation of funds statement) along with the
project accounts would be audited by an auditor acceptable to IDA and the audit
reports would be submltted to IDA wlthin nlne months of the end of the fiscal
year. The audit reports would contain a separate opinlon on compliance by
implementing agencies with all financial covenants under the IDA Credlt and
operation of the MLM Special Account.
2.44   There have been recent delays Ln GOX  submlttlng audlt reports on other IDA
credits. Ma Ls lnexperienced ln IDA procedures even lf lt has experlence of
implementatLon wlth other donor agencLes. Therefore, durlng negotiations
agreement was reached that prlvate auditors could be used to ensure that audited
rep[orts are forwarded to IDA wlthin nine months after each fiscal year (para
5.1).
2.45   It was also agreed durlng negotiatLons that project accounts would be set
up before credlt effectlveness by the MW staff or, if needed, by an accountlng
firm. The same staff/fLrm would malntain the accounts durlng implementatlon
(para. 5.1.).
III. Financial Impact on Ninistry of Local Government and Local
Councls
3.1   The Ministry of Local Government: Salaries and expenses ln MLG for FY
89/90 amounted to MX 6.6 million. For FY 90/91 the revLsod amount is MR 5.5
millon due to drastic reductlons in the grants paid to dlitrict councils.
Agreements reached wlth the Treasury and MLOG for FY/92 indicate a more normal MK
8.2 million whlch would approximately malntain the budget at FY 89/90 level in
real terms.
3.2   The proposed project would support MLA by provlding vehicles and equipment
and flnanclal support to cover the increase in operation expendltures. Similarly
the flnancial support would also cover costs for modlflcatlon ln organLsatLon of
NC. Fztimates of the lncrmental operational costs indlcate that about MK 0.8
mllion would be needed ln the firat year ln addltional budget. The reorganized
Minlstry needs 12 new posLtions, most at mlddle management and the upgrading of 5
posLtLons. (Annex 3t Proposed Restructured Staff of MIG). The project would
flnance these costs, but gradually reduce the support over the life of the
project with the aim of Treasury providLng adequate GOM fundlng for these costs



36
by FY 97/98. A detailed description of the MLG budget is attached in Annex 8.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that GOM will increase the budgetary
allocation to ML4 in order to gradually take over the incremental operational
costs attributable to the project (para. 5.1.).
3.3    The Local Authorities: Six out of the nine local authorities
participating, i.e. Lilongwe, Blantyre, Mzuzu, Ntcheu, Salima and Neanje, have
reasonably sound financial status and are able to carry out their project
commitments. The other three -- Zomba, Luchenza and M'Mbelwa, are currently
running at a deficit. M'Mb.lwa would be abl; to contract the obligation mince
the investments will contribute to a significant increase in its revenue. To a
lesser degree, this will be the case for the other towns. However, the technical
assistance and institutional strengthening component have built-in actions aimed
at improving the flnancial position of councils, and specific measures and
recommendations will guide the implementation of sub-components. The investment
packages are small and limited to essential equipment needed to maintain existing
assets.
Tabl- 111.1: BUDGET ALLOCATION AND NEEDS FOR THE ULO
(Malawi Kwacha millions)
TOTAL
92    98    94   90    96    97    08    99    -IIFE
1. Budget wlthout  0.8   9.80  9.77  10.2  10.77  11.81  11.87  12.47   64.61
project
2. Incremntal    0.S8  0.98  0.98   0.08  0.98  0.98  0.98  0.78    6.62
cost
S. Total budget    9.2   10.2  10.7  11.2  11.7  12.2  12.8  18.2    91.2
4. Project
Support       0.88  0.79   0.66  0.68  0.40  0.26  0.18  0.00    8.1
(1 of
Incremental   1001   6X    711   57X   48X   20X   14X    OX
Cot)
S. Govt.
additional
co_itmnt      0.00  0.18  0.26  0.40  0.58   0.66   0.79  0.78        8.5
to MLO0       w0    MY  4i        W4        71W wIT       lOOX
.1 ic atlon
Without these, it is likely that the towns would face more severe financial
constralnts. Another measure that will help the financially weak councils
is Central Government payments due councils in lieu of rates (para 2.24).
3.4    The result of the financial analysis for each of the participating
counclls is shown in Annex 8 and is summuarized below. As agreed during
negotiatlons, all participatLng councils would prepare annual audit reports
to be submitted to IDA.
(a)     Lilonawe: Lilongwe is in a financially sound position to
afford the investments under 1.ne ,:oject amounting to US$13
million. Full cost recovery would be applied to the sites



37
and services and upgrading components while recurrent costs
and debt service payments for the waste management, works
depot and 01G components would be covered from the council's
regular revenue. Lilongwe would maintain operating income
higher than operating expenditures and have uufficient funds
to pay the debt service associated with the project, i.e.
maintain a pouitive cash flow, provided income and
expenditures grow at least at the same rate. If Lilongwe
fails to recover the full costs for the sites and services
and/or upgrading components, the council will have to
increase the growth of income to exceed that of its
expenditures to maintain the positive cash flow. A moderate
increase in revenue growth rate from 5 to 6 percent p.a.
(with expenditure increases remaining at 5 percent p. a.)
would achieve a positive cash flow. To ensure continued
sound finances, a plan for how cost recovery will be
achieved for the sites and service and upgrading components
is being prepared.
(b)    Blantyre: Blantyre has generally sound finances and can
afford the investments proposed under the project. Increased
revenues from the project (increased market rent) will cover
the incremental operational costs for all project components
(except for sites and services and the upgrading components
for which full cost recovery is envisaged). However, part of
the debt service due to the project will have to be
recovered from the council's regular income. This can be
done provided expenditure and revenue grow at the same rate,
and Blantyre can mairntain positive cash flow. If the council
fails to recover costs for the sites and services and
upgrading components, revenues will have to grow at a
slLghtly higher rate that expenditure for the cash flow
balance to stay positive (income growing at 6 percent with
costs remaining at 5 percent will be sufficient).
(c)     Zombas Zomba's expenditures are higher than its income and
will remain so unless significant increases in income or
reductions in costs are carried out. Zomba's investments
are therefore limited to two income generating activities
(markets and bus depot upgrading) which will help reduce the
annual deficits.  The projected increases 'n :evenues due to
the project will approximately cover incremental operating
costs and debt service. Clearly other measures are needed to
improve its finances. A large portion of buildings in Zomba
belong to central government while the payments in lieu of
rates have remained comparatively small. The review of
central government transfers to councils together with
emphasis on revenue generation should improve the situation.
In summary, the project related investments will be
beneficial, but the generally weak finances will be
addressed through special technical assistance measures.
(d)    Mzusuut  zuzu will have to make its revenues increase at a
faster rate than its costs in order to afford the moderate



38
provision. for waste management and council works depot
proposed under the project. Having revenues grow at 1
percent higher than costs will ensure a positive cash flow.
in the long run there ir a need to strengthen and stabilize
Nzuusu' flnances. Thli would be the focus of technlcal
assistance.
(e)    Salima and Nsanles These two local authorities will be able
to bear the additional recurrent costs of the project and
meet the debt service obllgatLons.
(f)    Luchenza and MXMbelwas These two councLls are both operating
at a deficit. The provisLon of vehicles and equipment under
the project are to help strengthen their abllity to collect
revenues, but will also lead to increased recurrent costs
and assocLated debt servlce. Sven if the equipment provlded
may prove financlally beneficlal for the councils, they will
have to restructure their finances to become financially
sound. Technical assistance will be provided to do so.
(g)    Ntcheu: Revenues Ln Ntcheu would have to grow at a faster
rate than expenditures in order for the council to afford
the project related equipmnt. Technical assistance will
target measures to do so.



39
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Justification
4.1    The economlc rate of return (MMR) has been calculated for project
components where the beneflts can be quantifled in a meaningful way, i.e.
for most of the works and quipment to be supplled. The weighted average
ERR for thio part of the project, which amount to about 52 percent of the
total project cost, la 16 percent. Detailed calculations of the ERs are
shown ln Annex 10, and key assumptlons used lncludes
(a)     Beneflts for the shelter related components (sites and
servlces, upgrading) are based on the prices on the rental
market for land and accommodation.
(b)     Benefits for the waste management components are based on
households, willlngness to pay estimates for having solld
and liquid waste removed and on the resultlng posltive
external effect in the form of improved health and
environment.
(C)     Beneflts for road upgrading are estimated based on estimated
willingness to pay by all persons uslng the road (cars and
pedestrlans).
(d)     Beneflts for the market and bus depot upgradlng components
are based on the expected lncremental rental revenue this
wlll brlng the councils.
(e)    Costs are project base costs includlng physical
contlngencies but excluding taxes.
4.2    Benefits associated wlth the remalning 48 percent of project costs,
l.e. mainly the pollcy reform and lnstltutlonal strenqthenina components,
include:
(a)    Strongthenlng the fiscal posltlon of the LAs by widening the
tax base, lncreaslng revenue collectLon capacltles an
improving the fiscal and admlnistrative skills of the WA
and councll staff.
(b)     Provldlng a sustalnable system for the project's
infrastructure and servlces component to be replicated.
(c)     Provldlng a framework for improved efficiency ln the use of
resources allocated to the local government sector. The
deterloration of infrastructure and servlces has reduced the
utillzatlon and productlvity of available economlc
resources, partlcularly in the urban sector of the economy.
Indlvlduals have to spend lncreased amounts of tlme on
transport to work, collectlng water from far away, dlipoolng



40
of garbage, and face increased health hazards due to
inadequat- sanitary services. Firms/businesses have to spend
time and money on transporting staff, removing solid waste,
repairing damage from flooding, etc.
(d)     Strengthening urban-rural linkages.  The absence of adequate
urban services prevent. the urban areas from realiiing their
full potential in the economic symbiosis with the
surrounding rural areas. Transport and access betwoen urban
and rural areas are not adequate, and the possibilities for
rural produce to be sold in the urban areas are reduced as
is the ability of urban producers of goods and services to
supply rural customers.
(e)     Strengthening the local government sector as a tool for
local decision making and influence of community based
residents.
B. Project Impact on Poverty
4.3    only about 20 percent of the urban        $peryear
population have household incomes of US$500
or more p.a. and the 25 percent poorest
have household incomes of US$100 or less.        50
The "richest" 20 percent will not be             40w
directly affected by the investments and         no
services provided under the project. The         200
remaining 80 percent will be affected as
follows:                                          o
C
20    40    60    8so
(a)     The projects, shelter                     % Of households
component will provide
serviced sites and             Figure 6: Income distribution
upgrading. As this will be    in Lilongwe and Blantyre.
associated with cost
recovery, the beneficiaries
will mainly be in the 80 percent to 25 percent bracket. The
poorest 25 percent will not directly benefit from this
component corresponding to 28 percent of total cost.
However, there will be indirect benefits for the poorest,
i.e. (i) increased production of serviced sites will
increase the stock of residential housing which will reduce
the price for rented accommodation. Most of the pcorest
households rent and pay a high share of their income to the
landlords, and accommodation is scarce; and (ii) the
upgrading components include communal water pipes which will
bring oafe water to the entlre impact neighborhoods. Less
time and energy will be spent in collecting water. "Saved
time" from water collection can translate into more time for
income-generating activities, especially for women.



41
(b)    The project's waste management component (14 percent of
total cost) will benefit the whole population in the two
cities except the top 20 percent who already have adequate
services. This component will benefit the urban poor by
reducing disease, which they are most exposed to and least
able to combat. Although it is not possible to asses.
accurately the impact of the project on the health of the
urban poor, the components for drainage, sanitation and
especially water can be expected to significantly improve
environmental and health conditions. Statistics compiled by
hospitals and health centers throughout Malawi show a high
incidence of water-related diseases among the local
population.
(c)    The remaining city-wide infrastructure and services
components (roads and markets corresponding to 6 percent of
total project cost) will be spread throughout the
population.
4.4   The policy reform and institution strengthening components will
affect the sector as a whole nd is not directly targeted for selected
groups.
C. Project Risks
4.5   To have maximum development impact, it is important that the
provision of serviced sites, upgrading and waste collection is replicable
and sustainable. Benefits from the Lnfrastructure and services provided by
the project will Lmprove the quality of life for many people, but by far
larger benefits wlll be realized if the project is used as a catalyst to
establish sustainable systems for provision of municipal infrastructure and
services. This can only be achieved by successful implementation of the
project's policy reform and institutional strengthening components. The
main risk therefore involves 0o0Ms willingness to make the institutional
modificatlons needed and adopt policy reforms.
4.6   Annual reviews of progress in all project components will be carried
out to mitigate the risk of the policy and institution strengthening
components falling behind the implementation of the physical investments.
Such reviews will be done by the project coordinator with support of the
MLG management team, and will be discussed during supervision missions.
4.7   A second risk involves the weak capacity of MLG and participating
councils. There La a risk in their not being able to implement either the
pollcy reforms or the planned investments in a timely manner. A related
risk lies in the weak financial position of three of the participating
councls. Repayment of loans for maintenance oquipment and infrastructure
improvements is possible only through concerted technlcal assistance
efforts and the willingness of GM1 to introduce proposed measures such as
its payments to councils ln lieu of rates. The project design is built on
a 'strengthen-by-doing" approach; tools and support to help these
lnstitutions incrementally are built into the project.



42
4.8   Lastly, there is a rLsk that the pace at whlch the entrenched
control behavlor of the central government can be modlfled to create an
environment of solf reliance and independent decislon maklng ln the
councils will be too slow. The inclusLon of annual revliws and the strong
emphasil on LnstLtutLon strengthenLng are lntended to mLtigate thli rlsk.
V.  AGRUZMBNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agroments and condLtLons
5.1   During negotlatlons, agreement was reached or conflrmed on the
following poLntst
(a)    The time table for lmplementatlon of the studies and
workshops under the project's pollcy component, Lncluding
target dates for the lmplementatlon of the findLngs and
rexomendatlons of the studles/workshops, were agreed on.
The tlme table will be attached to the project's Credit
Agreement as a sLde letter. The time table is also lncluded
in Annex 2.
(b)    A system of project accounts would be set up by credlt
effectlveness by technlcal assiLtance staff in LW. In case
such staff have not started thelr assLgnments Ln tlme to
carry out that task, NLW will hlre a prlvate accounting flrm
to set up the accounts. The accounts would be maintalned by
the flrm until the technlcal assistance staff is ln place
(Para. 2.45.).
(0)-   Audlted reports will be submitted to IDA wlthln nlne months
after each fLical year. If there are delays ln such
submLesions, MLG will hire a prlvate lndependent accountant
to carry out the audltlng (para. 2.44. and 2.45.).
(d)    Transfer of knowledge will be included ln the terms of
reference for the tochnLeal asstance staff. ZvaluatLons of
such staff will include an assessment of to what extent
knowledge has been transferred to local staff.
(e)    The mid-term revlow will take place not later than August,
1995 (para. 2.19.).
(f)     It is envLiaged that no dLsplacement (and assoclated
compensatLon payments) will take place under the project's
sltes and services and upgradlng components. Thli will be
conflrmed after completion of the detalled engLneerLng.
Disbursements of the projects * ltes and services and
upgradlng components will be condltional on componsatLon
procedures acceptable to IDA beLng applled as needed (para.
2 38.).



43
(g)    Procedures for plot allocatlon i-.ll be revLewed after
completion of an ongoing study of such procedures is
Completed. Dlibure_ments for the projeet's sites and
services and upgradLng components wlll be conditLonal on
plot allocation procedures acceptable to IDA being applied
(para. 2.23.).
(h)    Agreement was reached on the project's onlendlng
arrangements (para. 2.13. and 2.18.).
(L)    The followlng documentatlon was revliwed and finalized: a
plan of actlon for the transfer of unencumbered land to the
counclIs for implementatLon of the sltes and servLces and
upgrading components (para. 2.11.)l letters from Lilongwe
and Blantyre clty councils that they will apply cost
recovery policLes for the sltes and services and upgrading
components (p ra. 3 4. ) letters for the institutions to
provide training under the project that they are able and
willlng to provLde such traLning (para. 2.11), and; a letter
confirmLng that Treasury has approved the new staffing and
organizatLon of NM and wlll absorb the increaeing operating
expendltures as the project financlal support for such
expenditures iL phased out (para. 3.2.).
5.2    Condltions for credit effectiveness are:
(a)    DMLA has been establihed and staffed with at least one
accountant and has furnished IDA with evidence that is has
opened a treasury payment account wlth the Reserve Bank of
Nalawl (para. 2.12).
(b)    NLa has caused the study on grants and payments in lleu of
rates to be started (para. 2.23.).
(c)    The system of project accounts have been establlshed (para.
2 45.).
(d)    Detailed engineering and bldding documents for the
infrastructure works to be carrled out ln Lilongwe Blantyre
and Zomba to be finallzed and ready for tendering (para.
2 38.).
(e)    All steps needed to make the transfer of unencumbered land
to all counclls for the sltes and services and upgrading
components have been completed (para. 2.11.).



44
B. Recommndation
5.4   Subject to the above assueanc-., the proposed project is suitable
for a Credlt from the ZnternatLonal Development AJuocLation to the Republic
of Malawl ln tho amount of US$24.0 million.



45
ANNEX 1
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Estimated City Sizes and Urban Growth Rates.
Area      Population       Annual growth rates       Population 2000
1987 (actual)  1966/77 1977/87 1987/00       (assessed)
(actual) (actual)(assessed)
Blantyre  331 588          6.5    4.2 S   5.75 S        685 000
Lilongwe  233 976          7.3 S   6.3 Z   6.0 S         500 000
Mzuzu      44 238          9.2 Z   7.1 Z   7.5 Z          115 000
Zomba      42 878          1.9 Z   5.9 Z   5.5 Z          65 000
Smaller
urban     187 139          3.2 Z   5.6 S   6.0 Z         400 000
(of which
northern  46 237          2.6 Z   4.9 Z   5.25 Z         90 000
central   72 059          3.3 1   6.3 Z   6.5 Z         165 000
southern  68 843          3.5 S   5.4 S   6.0 Z         145 000
province)
Total
urban     839 819          5.6 1   5.9 S   6.0 Z       1 785 000
Total
Malavi  7 982 607          2.9 S   3.3 S   3.7 Z      12 800 000
Source: Population Censuses by the National Statistical Office and Bank staff
estimates.



46                               Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
NLMI
LOCAL 00V3n3!tOr DUVUWaHfM PROJtC
Policy Reform Comnonent
A. SummarY
1.   The development and instLtutionalLsatLon of appropriate policies is
central to buLlding a more decentralized, stronger and self-sufficient
local government system. The Lntentions to do so have been stated, but
in-depth analysis of the needs, alt-rnative polLcies and assessments of
their benefits are ne ed ln order to develop an action program of policy
reform. The goal of enhancing the financial and adminLstratlve capacity of
the local government system requires a comprehensive asessmment of issues,
constraints and possible actions, and a forum or advocating and fostering
proposed policy changes. Thli component is targeted at NIC, all local
authorities and to eel(wt councils needing asslstance ln redressing poor
flnancial performance.
B. Obiectlves
2.   The Policy Workshop Studies to be supported under this component are
the basis for the analyaLs, debate and advocacy of pollcy reforms needed to
empower the central and local governmnt institutions charged with managing
and promoting local government to do so pr#perly. The products, translated
Into revised leglilatloi and operating procedures, would help MW and the
local authorLtLes Loprove administration, increase revenue moblilzation and
fiscal self-sufficiency, upgrade tools for budgeting, auditing, and
financLal control. These measureo would help local authorltles develop
better, more responsive, participatory and accountable governance.
C. 3xecuting Agency
3.   NLA is the lad agency and focal poLnt for communicatLng with IDA and
coordinating wlth varlous councils. The policy reforms will be facilitated
and monitored by a core team of key NLO staff and resldnet advLsors.
D. D-ecriotLon
4.   A series of 14 polliy studles, and assoclated analysLs and debate
workshops and Loplementation of assolated workplans would be facilitated
and conducted. Products will include revised leglilation, budgeting and
accounting manuals, guldelines for improving fiscal management and
performance, handbooks On the functions and procedures to be used by NIa
and the local authorlties, actlon plans, etc. Pollcy would be dealt with
in four areass (LI legislatLon reviewl (iL) dutles and rcsponsLblitles of
contral and local goverAment agenciesu  (ii) rvenue mobillzatLon and
financial manageent and (iv) human resources.



47                                      Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
3. Implementation RlsponaLbilLtX
5.     Impl-mentatlon of thli  component would be supported by a team of key
MW  staff and four technlcal assLstance posLtLons ln HW.
Y. Tlmetable
6.    The following table detaLls the implementatLon of the component.
Table 2.1t MALAWI: Implementation Timetable for Pollcy studLes
and Workshops
Plicy SudyAvcrkshop/awon:                                       To sa      Comeioon  targt date fkr
by.         by.       adopion:
1.     LocaE  Aort Budo  Systems. Study o revi LA budgetin
s"em and predures to (I kmplewt a simplad, ronig          1S3          No            4/e4
p   sem fbr cpia buget, () produe Budge Manuel.
2.     Loca Auhort Aouot  Sstem. A riew of ust   LA
ccoun    proedurs to (I adopt  idadchwt of account        1/S3         6M            4/04
awd common prionipl, and _(H prepae Accounting Manuel.
3.     Local Autho i Revenes Study to Idetfy alenai  rene                     2/O3
source for LAs and romnd Improving ra  and               10        (W2 4/93         nre.
colctons (study and vrw p).
4.     Grans o Concls. A study In tw  part to r_m"s ( udano
ageents on want to LA& nd estbWi timetable b                         (fo  12/92     (4/4
rwech    paynet In lieu d rate at U  rated vand a         692 (N) 1/93
obliaton, not Wt (present at high ll policy workh);                                0) 4/93
and, (I) rvis gsrt systwn to Dbtic Cwb to sablish
bcrma for alccation, administradti n,  e, perormansc e.
5.     RiaPath n d Valuation Review. Sdy to nakerecommendatione
to u d the production at supplementay a0d quinquwml      10/92        121/2          4/93
valuation ancd th expended us of privt vaum.
6.     Local  "whlritv Financalminstan. An aalis d                            Wm
system ad procedur  to Inprova MG financial               GM         lw)             4/93
adminstration (study and wordhop).                                                           -
7.     Loccl onm   ent LUsation Reviw
a) *inuk rview d LA lbgislatlon and propose modlialir to                   1/OS
dsorb   ande role and reponlblks for councls - policy        m         ) 11/92        n..
wohop ladhg to action plan
b) draft legislatlon, a reqL*vd, bsd on above.                am          12/2 3         10/94
c) draft handboox dlrifyg w relatlonelIp of LAs fo ceral
govemrent, inr"ding guideiresfor counci cpeatlm             am          12/3          12/94
a  Pdiy Wohop on Rol od t  Di  Adminion vi t  Local
Audw, _s,                                                     10/93        1/94          n.a



Annex 2
48                                  Page 3 of 3
Policy SudyANokdwop/acdlon:                                      To sa       Completon   target date fr 
by:          by:      adoption:
9. St  Idy   fyin %le Firlm, Huw   and Maagent Reoces                           am
requkeren  and procedre for admiWltsrn  ft    3TH AM  7/92                                 4/93
10. Study lo idetfy xoceddure for LA accs to Land.                10/96         4/9 48
1i. Study for htegrat  LG roving hnda.                            12V94         Wm96
12. Wosop deofi   rde of MLG and LAX in developing S
Senoes.                                                        2"4          6/94           n.a.
1& Sftdy and policy wakhp  to  _es constrait on conomir
acWvi, dergton, and to  ei   the eonomic deveopmet             296          6/95           n.a.
potl d LAL
14. Devuomwt Fund for Loca Authoritles. A sudy to ideniy
modalkis d opeaW, rcommnd ways of hwgratkg wih otr             2/92                       NW2 82
hus and posble 1aci itermedatin



49                            Annex 3
Page 1 of 18
MALAVI
LOCAL GOVEINREUT DEVELOPMEUT PROJECT
Institutional Stzen8thening Commonent
A. Summar
1.    The need to strengthen the capacity of local administration has been
recognized by the GOM as a key element of the development process.
Particularly in the rapidly urbanizing areas of Malawi, councils have a
comparative advantage over central agencies in the provision of services
such as waste collection, drainage, paving and social services. Local
governments are more knowledgeable about local needs and are better at
responding to changes in these needs. Macroeconomic adjustment and
stabilization in Malawi also requires improvements in the efficiency of
local government investment and implementation, and reforms in municipal
finance. To accomplish this, institutions must be reviewed and reinforced.
2.   The Local Government Development Project aims at developing an urban
management capability at the local level. To do so, a long-term and
comprehensive component to help support institutional building measures is
essential. The institutional strengthening components would have three
principle elements: a) the reinforcing of the Ministry of Local Government
and Local Authorities through changes in the staffing and organization; (b)
institutional strengthening of the four major urban councils as well as a
package of management and skills enhancement assistance to other local
authorities; and (c) intensifying local government training capacity and
the development of a national training program for local authority elected
officials and staff. A priority of the institutional strengthening
component is to focus on building the financial and administrative capacity
of the urban local government system.
B. Obiectives
3.    The component would support revising the MLG organizational structure
and providing it with the staff, resources, and equipment needed to assume
the fun,tions that are inherent in its revised Mission Statement. The main
new mardated items for the MLG ares policy development, technical
assistance to councils, and training. Accordingly the specific objectives
of this component would lncluds
(i)   improving MLG's abilLties to analyze and  develop local
gove rnnt policy;
(it) intensifying MLG's policy coordination functions and its role
in polLcy discussions with other ministries, NGOs/private
sector, and with donors;
(iii) assisting local governments to become more effective and
effLcient;



50                             Annex 3
Page 2 of 18
(iv) decentralizing and rationallzing the MLG regional structure;
(v)   adopting efficient operational procedures.
C. Executing Asency
4.    MLG in the lead agency in implementing the institutional
strengthening component vith assistance form the project coordinator, key
MLG staff and management advisors provided under technical assistance.
D. Description
5.    These reforms are to be carried out and monitored over a seven-year
period. Policies, procedures, technical assistance and the staffing plan
are staged to build upon one and other. Three basic actions would be
supported:
(i)   Preparation and implementation of a business plan based on the
HLG's new m ndate in supporting the development of councils.
MLG senior management and unit chiefs must adopt new operating
procedures based on implementing the business plan.
(ii) Development and implementation of a more decentralized
operating procedure and decLsion making process through broader
delegation of authority (including regionalization) and
streamlinLng proceduresl and
(iLi) Reorganization and staffing of the MLG. Under the
reorganization the MLG will move from a role of a regulatory
and controlling body to that of a supervisory and management
capacity of local authoritles. The Ministry in the future will
be involved in the promotion, coordination and integration of
development. This implies developing and strengthening the
capacity to formulate policies, providing outreach services and
developing career paths for its officers. The senior management
of the MLG has to provide leadership and a 'mind set' which
will motivate the staff. This implies an organizational
structure with clear cut lines of authority and accountability
and streamlined operating and decision-making. MLG would
discontinue secondmsnt of central ML staff to local
governments and councils. Temporary postings and transfers of
staff would be elimlnated, in favor of recrultment of full time
local government staff by the local councils.
Notes oan the new MLC organizations
(a)   There is no policy oversight unit. The ComLissioner of Local
Governmnot will be responsible for policy formulation and for
the allocation of oversight responsibilities as required.
(b)   The eztent of autonomy to be granted to the regional offices is
still under discussLon, but in principle responsibllity is to



51                             Annex 3
Page 3 of 18
be devolved to the regional management. and only specific
matters will be referred to SQ. The implication of this is that
the MLG, as far as the regions are concerned, will introduce a
management by exception system.
(c)   The major reorganizational changes are as follows
(i)   The establishment of a new Planning Unit to address the
new development functions to be assumed by the MLG. The
Planning Unit will provide planning services to the local
authorities, including: preparation and review of project
proposals, coordination of projects, and the monitoring
and evaluation of project implementation.
(li) The Ministry has created a Training Unit under the
personnel function. Its main objective is to develop
capacity of )LG and local authority staff to manage urban
growth and development at the local level. The functions
of the Training Unit will include assessment of training
needs. preparation of training plans and programs,
curricula development and administration of training
programs.
(iii) The Accounting Unit has been reorganized into two units
one to deal with project funds and the other to manage
the MLG account stores and budget. The functions of the
Project Funds will include reporting and liaison with
multilateral and bilateral donors, processing of
disbursement requests and monitoring and evaluation of
projects. The functions of the General Accounts Unit will
be budget formulation and control; accounting;
procur eme t and stores control; financial reporting,
planning and forecasting.
(iv) The Municipal Services Division has been reorganized into
two unLts under the Chief Municipal Engineer. The Estates
Management UnLt will provide technical advice and support
to local authorities and the Design Construction Unit
will be responsible for maintenance.
(v)   Three units have been added under the Local Authorities
Administration Division under the Chief Local Government
Officer to support regional activities at the local
level. The Local Authorities Administrative Division
provides Management Advisory services to the local
authorities, liaising with coamunity and NGO groups. The
Co amity Services Unit will assist the MLG in the
provision of social services at the community level in
the areas of Health and Education.



52                            Annex 3
Page 4 of 18
Id)   The following functions have been transferred to the LAs:
(1)   the auditing of the financial records and accounts for
LAss
(ii)  reviewing and establishing prices for commodities sold in
markets operated by the LAsgand
(iii) receiving and recording minutes of the councils
proceedings.
6.    Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen those functions
that are necessary for the Ministry to play the role as defined in the
Mission Statement and as required by the project. The assistance will be
provided in a phased manner that reflects the absorptive capacity of the
Ministry and technical concerns of the project. For ezample, the policy
element will be phased with human resource development in the ML0 so that
policy staff are able to participate in the policy research activities. A
specific proposal for technical assistance has been prepared as a part of
the project proposal. In addition to this assistance, the project will also
fund other costs of restructuring the MLG such as equipment and staff
salaries that will enable MLG to fulfill its functions for the
implementation of the project.



53                                                Annex 3
Page 5 of 18
-     Na1  Flu. injgun  w
mmylllll Winu Im.aimmwm 
ftWIKa  be me.'. tAt onS Oa
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OYes a1_e ,eje  ft 1OF _
bhmo mehat. g .4 to mbelt
V eellble.,,  4to   som'eo
sii_"  ."  _s  ..,
dlvon"W" aet"Wu Se
ti,.e.. "
S. Wm Po"else of Pe.Je._ Pl_ml"
. 1     .4 Ple   I  . lgm
I oc" Al.  milme 3  .*. srr.         *gu   -w A g                                                          UNIT
PUN'=# P..tlel. & abs...          ftwUEa Ponetoo. 4                                         PUIug, Pl.e.,.  I ab....
in5C u  tm Peyelele  et$                    at. _..r                                                 S   -
PASe7?                                                    t. MOt    et . n"etlc e  of
1.Legl Sae.,less; to Lmon        L. the Provision. of Sq.ete                                  pf.jeet P..eeeee.
1. 11       he2.Ae 1e M.                             eq                                     m. te C..edl_.t"le  et
::eme  bee:S1._...                  le  .. Ce:.eAeS, .rl                                      m  .e.t.;., . ..  ';
2. Legal atwhoecltl.. Plaell       .     Pe.le., OfTLeslf                                      Svlatlee  f u    eo
Advise".'Semlo.ee.                A Ibtectsaei.   Spbank                                    la,line.aebde..
4. livolelpel ?ombsle                A.tl.ltlee.
Sevvievo.
* ila ..ep      1 a chlef SIan. Off Sw  (PS)                                a  ,e.   I.eI.  Ottf.c  P7
fee l.e.                            I._
1'h     e  (P4)              1         -   .. Pleelag OffIe.. (P
,U   mevzm SOVSI                             UII1S St SUZIJ2              LAS.Sb UISUII  P? i                        WSIM  I
_w=s P.ea S Ab_.".              _s    setl   2 a .                        PWuPOs, r ,le. I Abe"...             pq S: P       lee 4     ... Abov. e :
ArsUO     *                           P.T? ,         .               .    crs      sa *                         pI s? *                              ?-t h;-
1. The Pesme   et Sple.               I. The Seodecle  of Lega            1. *a Apce,al of Ceemell              T. he Ppecloe  of Wdee s                      Abooe.
1_ lwgl.                              AWWW%t1S.        _ Meeget           Letinbe.                             Esbtat Maeegineb to L*   l
Ad.leeq b.l._.    _-  2. Al Seale. s              f Oce  to              AeteItlin.                        MSIlSUm  .
Thu P'....oeIg of La"e                                                     Call.
Ce.rWte,ea  Ag          t4.         S. The Y_11             o e, ll     S. T?e P .l.lenof Adele -            2. The O..I    Ce _eteqtle-          1. Th  a1e ab
*d =1e lea  r_ Legal  adtE"e S       eW eeeo VA                                                               .3-
, ki Om_1@1* of L_1l                  1wA.sles.                          PImalal   gO. PUee.                    S   sc    _m.
Ad.leey S_eyle4e.                                                      4. Thes Adis1tlme_1af                                                       (a) Aaeae1 Auditt
ORA.                                                                     Cb) Seisl Aadla
La e )  "lIet Leal Ce-%. Oft.        a  11Ies. L..Go".                   a   chIef ,m lpel     .    ....
offledw                   041S                                                                  04/3~441   (P) 
-- i. S  ei
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ me?                                                                          IM            Is
@44 leaw
1 * PiSu. %Aw.          S. Cm1s. moe.  a a PFelin. Le.
6"41. on. (Tw).                             e.. off lea
V17W



54                                       Page  3Tfi
SfvAL  ASTr                                                                                  LEtO AMUSTIrIONe
*r*'zazao                                                                                         DZI8WeU
PUWU3: PooctI.o 4 oh.,..                                                                        IIAbovea
1. Th. Pp,.i.I. of po.
s.en,  _.Yi    d r
L. Tos Pttgorti.s of A  it                                                                     2. rho Ppo,l.I. of
Prlrmm, _-                                                                                     AgOgoti" Serle..
(a) Aa.o AdibtT Otffle  Sl_o,   .
(b) Smloi Adito.
1 a Cope  Suu8etr  54
'-fe.        &W% . keditor (PT)                                                                         - - - * *e
, .  , .e 
-=--ItL ScON       _      OTNI  MN" CSOwaoisL umn                                  -           irS  UNIT                   op a   sacs  war
tAM    =WOIO1            ptpu  Fatt,s I, PUP                    S- tlv,, I Ab_.          P4<Ms4SI sbto    _,bo.            ft`M   ,,|.,M I A*_
Ab...                     Above. -s mCo1w   -                                     s nfIa- z..*¢                          r
t*     ) t      luics 1                      I. The Zebp..tottl. of        i *_Th. Peotlo. of                    1. TlW Provlisio of
oele$ Public &WWI**               Pinolglo  tIM..o                 bo_t,I  8o.ldr.
1. The Coceytog out       1. The Co,vyIog Cub              Regulatons..                   2. lb. A£ooo.o.og of                 h tli   fCeia
oft *                     of* -                       .Uo,Imut. P. C aloi o"B.
oad Slolpi lo.                 S. The Amo.alog of PM.-          S. -. Pe 1IoI. of
(.) Aomeel Audito         (S) Lao,.l Audit.            S. The v0dablas of Pifogegil         L"%eb A. .d..mm
(b) Spedl  AwditO        (b) Spueiol AIdit.              IO 1.                                            o
4. The Zd flettb. qo  e              sho  ..                       S. The. P1... .1ttP  
tiOiod* O.do     Cml-T,O*o,
tol.. of Trnototg
1 a Ii.      I Gvt.      £   S".. Locol 4Gov1.                        r      -              .-...j-----
Auditor (P4)             AudItor (PS)
I a P t..    omo...  Officer I  Principal Accosuntoant1)       1  Prlma. L       tlo
r!I
a. SPocess    ..
Capitol ttl   wtl                                     i
Puad.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4.  ie,. I5hSm,                              mLot   u.oat
La A~~~~~~~~uiaAnaatmosaa
X AsewmAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



55                                  Annex 3
Page 7 of 18
TabS 3* MALAWI LOCAL GOVERMEW DEVELOPMENT - PROPOSED RESTRUCTURED STAFF
(SUMMARY SUPPORT STAFF)
8_w         Oul       Tcohnl-    Subordl     Towi
DMsOns             ___ ____                 Cal      nsft 1I    Poulem"
Top mmwrot             4                                           4
A00nVUniltv
a) C&pl FFund     _               2                                2
b) wribmm  Pig.        1          2                    1           4
c) Budga &
AooWing SsW          1          2                    1           4
Pomone d Human
Rbmas DWp.             1          2                    1           4
Tmb*IgU,i              1          2                                4
kftmrnd Audi                      2                                2
LegmlSerADos        ___           2                _____           2
Admr.Sw           L               3                    13          27
SPots                  4          6          5         6           21
LA Fnma                1                                1          2
Commerci SrW=          1          2                                3
M~m aredm              2                     3          1
Rsgiouu                3          a         15         S           2
8TO1 1                                       11 
Le~~~               __                    ___         _
To                     U     l    71    J 4         2 8            15
TOTArdiPOte rSTAfF             16e
1y Subordinate refers to positilons such as messengers/cieaners.



Annex
56                                Page 8 of 18
Tel. &4 MALAA
LOCAL O               LENr r
_ _ _ _                   W~~~~PxxONOtL   -    OCME  I               _      _-G
Summawy Equipmsn      |       PCO         Cam        Minbu       Ph. Cop   Ph. Cop/| th   Fax
Top manamret                   4           3                     1
Fhm9 :. ______
a)  apn                        1                               _Fun
b) hMmalos Prog                1        2 (4WD)                     1                      1
o) ad   & A_snn                2                                    1
Pso   ol  Human                1           1
R"SouK  Dop. ..
Trak                           (1)        (1)          (3)         (1)     (1/3 OH
mn. Smlo1                             _                             1           1          1
LA Fiawo|                      2           2   |                _          _
Comvnsrolal Senvlos            1        3 (4WD)
T.ooa Sswvk                    2    3     (4WD)                     1           1
RegIons                        6       12 (4WD)                     3           3
S~ d;  ,tf                    _      _   _   __          _   _=_
TOMMm                         23 |        32           3           10       6 + 30H       2
Tot Iwm Cod  1              6,000      246,000  |      .001      27,000       6,000      1,100
Tol Offie Eqm100,100
Tota Ve*s                   310,001
TOTAL. ECUPENT              410,101
* Cod   e    habuded hI MLO bu4ioue  oinkig.



Annex 3
57                       Page 9 of 18
E. Specialized Approach to Implementation Assistance
7.          This restructuring plan would be implemented by the MLG using a
small core team of key MLG staff together with resident advisors that will
operate somewhat like an implementation advisory group reporting to the
deputy P.S. The Deputy P.S. will be the group chairman and the program
coordinator it's secretary. The team will meet regularly to help oversee,
monitor and resolve issues in the project's implementation.
S.          Another objective of structuring the team is to have the
technical assistance serve as a basis on which to build and share
management and problem resolution experience with the MLG staff, beyond the
narrow specialized functions assigned to each advisor. The concept is to
have the TA put in place a stronger, integrated approach to problem
solving, implementation and management at the MLG. Under this arrangement
the MLG will retain the line responsibilities while working with the
advisors whose main tasks is to transfer the skills and methods to the MLG
staff.
F. Terms of Reference for Advisors
9.          Specialized advisory assistance to the MLG would be provided as
follows
(a)      Urban Management Advisor:  To advise MLG and the cities
(including Zomba) on the institutional and urban development
initiatives arising from LGDP, to support the cities'
counterpart town clerks in developing local urban management
leadership, to establish an annual planning and review cycle on
key institutional and urban development issues, to give
particular attention to the four councils' preparation,
implementation and review of council development plans,
ensuring that both institutional (organizational and financial)
and urban (infrastructure and services) issues are addressed,
to advise MLG on policy and coordination of M;LG activities in
support of the instruments and finally, to develop tools and
mechanism for introducing investment planning and management
systems in support of the councils. Period of assignments 36
months.
(b)      Chief TechnLcal Adviser:  To assist and advise the Chief
Technical Officer (see responsibilities of the CTO in 3 above).
Period of assignment: 36 months.
(c)       Training Consultanci: To assist and advise the Unit Chiefs in
IRD and Training (see responsibilities of the Unit Chiefs in 10
above). Period of assignment: 24 months.
(d)       Financial Analyst and Accountant:  To advise and assist as
appropriate the chiefs in charge of the LA management and
finance unit and the relevant MLG financial services unit  The
aim being to strengthen the financial administration



Annex 3
58                       Page 10 of 18
capabilities of MLG and to improve the financial performance of
the local councils including the review of budget and
accounting procedures and principles and the development of
accounting and budget manuals and fiancial instructions. The
financial technical assistance advisers would assist in all
matters relating to the reporting needs and submission of
disbursemdnt requests to the World Bank (and any other
international donors). Periods of assignment; Financial
Analystt 24 months; Accountant s 36 months.
(e)       Estate Development and Management Advisers  To assist the Chief
Technical Officer and LAs in the development, upgrading and
management of low cost housing areas known as THAs -
Traditional Housing Areas; and (ii) squatter settlements. In
addition to-planning, the work will entail developing and
implementing systems related to plot allocation; cost recovery;
material loans; coamunity development and administration.
Period of assignments 24 months.
(f)       Municipal Engineering Adviser:  To assist and advise in matters
regarding environment and low cost sanitation, including
operation and maintenance programs related to solid and liquid
wastes.  The adviser will assist the municipal engineers in MLC
and LAs in carrying out their duties. Period of assignments
24 months.
(g)       Short Term Technical Assistancet  To advise and assist the unit
chief in charge of the administration of the capital
development fund. The work will entail establishing rules and
procedures, accounting and management procedures covering loans
related tot
(i)   purchase of vehicles, equipment and short life assets;
(ii) comercial related buildings e.g. markets, rest houses, etc.
(iii) municLpal infrastructure.
Two advisers will be required for two months eachs
(i) a management and fnancial systems adviser; and
(ii)  an accountant.
All advisers will be expected to carry out 'on the job
training' of counterparts and assist the staff development
officers in undertaking more formal training.



Annex 3
59                      Page 11 of 18
STRGTZINI TH  COUNCILS AND LOCAL GO RTS
A. Summar
10.         The main deficiencies of the local government systems are in
the provision of infrastructure and services. Substantial benefits can be
realized from improving the local authorities financial management,
budgeting and accounting systems. In order for councils to assume
increasing responsibility in the management of expenditures on various
kinds of public goods and services, reforms in their roles, functions and
financial management must focus on increasing accountability, efficiency in
production and assessing demand, and sustainability. Appropriate charging
and collection measures along with adequate staff will improve the
efficiency of pricing and cost recovery measures. Widening the tax base to
include THAs and squatter settlements will increase the revenue base.
increasing revenue from property taxes requires active management from
local authorities, speedy billing, efficient collection systems, and
frequent updating of property rolls. Little attention is paid to debtors
in terms of providing available funds to meet creditors, and cash flow
problems are typically ignored. Standard charts of accounts should be
developed for the three city councils. With the exception of Lilongwe, none
of the local authorities prepares an acceptable capital development budget.
Im?roved personnel policies and procurement procedures may increase
substantially the level of service output per unit expenditure. Improving
budget elaboration and implementation may improve significantly the
efficiency of municipal expendLtures.
B. Objectives
11.         This component of the project aims to strengthen the
Administration and capacity of the local councils in the provision of urban
services in three key areas: Accountancy and Financial Management, Local
Government administration and management and Technical Skills. The emphasis
through training and technical assistance will be to improve municipal
taxation capacity and incentives, cost recovery and expenditure management
reform.
C. Executina Agency
12.         The councils are responsible for the execution of this
component.
D. Description
13.         Support as detailed in paragraph 2.8 (Li) would be provided to
the councils to expand services and to operate and maintain existing
investments and equipmnt as follows:



Annex 3
60                       Page 12 of 18
E. Component Implementation
14.         In carrying out this component the councils will call on
technical assistance from MLOG outreach and assistance field offices, MLG
Project Unit and 2 technical assistance positions of 24 months for
development of maintenance systems, construction and housing management.
F. Agreements Reached
15.         Finalisation of the terms of reference for the technical
assistance assignments is a condition for negotiations.
G. Additional Information
16.         The duties of the local authorities and MLG need to be clearly
decided upon. It is recommended that the responsibilities of the local
authorities and MLG be developed and expanded as follows:
Local Authorities:
(a)      RelationshiD with central government ministriess   Local
authorities should have the capacity tot
Mi)      coordinate, coment upon and have powers to refer
back for review the proposals of central government
line agencies;
(ii)    commence dialogue vith central line agencies and
ministries through the regions (in the case of
municipal, township and district councils) and
through HQ (MLG) in the case of Lilongwe, Blantyre
and Mzuzu; and
(iii)    dialogue in workshops and meetings) with MLG,
concerning policy formulation and other matters
affecting the sector.
(b)      Internal responsibilities:
C1)     prepare and annually update the Council Development
Plan;
(1i)     prepare, design, justify and implement the carrying
out of action programs and projects;
(Cii)    manage the affairs of the councils systematically
and prepare annual capital and revenue budgets;
(iv)     bill for and collect appropriate rates, charges,
tariffs and fees;



Annex 3
61                       Page 13 of 18
(v)      maintain the assets of the council, operate
effectively the municipal services i.e. cleansing,
sanitation, fire brigade, etc)
(vl)     develop the resources, (financial and human), of
the council; and
(vii)    undertake other tasks from time to time as
required.
(vLii)   Employment/Eiring/Secondment of Staff?
Ministry of Local Governmentt
MLG should provide (as far as the local authorities are concerned):
(a)      Supervisory and Regulatory Framework:
(i)      good liaison links with other ministries;
(ii)     a positive and dynamic tutelage, oversight and
regulatory services;
(Lii)    policy analysis and guidance in the sector;
(b)      Guidance and Assistance Service to Local Authorities ins
(i)      the preparation of CDPs action programs and
projects;
(ii)     budget preparation;
(iii)    management and financial systems;
(iv)     operational programs and maintenance of assets;
(v)      estate development and management; and
(vi)     any other appropriate matter.
(c)    access to a capital development fund for local authorities;
(d)    human resource development and training;
(e)    secretarial services to the Local Government Service
Comlision.
TRAINI  PROGRAM
A. jme
17.   The LG prepared a Training Strategy (in project files) for the
local government system which includes, and developing the MLG ln-house
training capacity as well as utilizing and building the institutional
capacity of the Staff Training College at Mpemba (STC), the Malawi



Annex 3
62                      Page 14 of 18
Institute of Management (MIM) and the Polytechnic to prepare materials and
deliver specialized courses for local government staff. A USAID supported
survey conducted in 1989 and a related Training Needs Assessment carried
out by MLG in 1991 (both in project files), identifies priority training
areas   ast   Accountancy   and   Financial   Management   (Accounting
Officers/Auditors), Local Government Administration/Management including
Planning and Project Management, policy implementation such as the Council
Development Plans (Town Clerks/ Senior Administrators) as well as
Technical Skills (Municipal Engineers/Quantity Surveyors). However the
range of skills development special to managing local council areas is
wide ranging and not offered at this time by any training institution in
Malawi.
18.   The fundamental premise of the strategy is that in addition to
generating the needed courses and opportunities, other parallel actions
are needed to maximize the impact of these training programs innd to
enhance the overall training capacity of the local government system.
Training must be accompanied by recruitment into key positions of several
of the local authorities which have high vacancy rates. A major thrust of
the training strategy is to develop and make available the right skills
mix needed for the effective operation of the Local Government System. In
addition, institutional and staff capacity building workshops will focus
on strategic planning and decentralization.
19.   The training strategy has developed a seven-year training plan that
details the first phase of training that will buila and expand on HRID-
supported training activities at MLG. The USAIDIURID sponsored program,
which has been in place for over a year, is a sound building block from
which the long-term, comprehensive training structure can evolve. Under
the HRID-supported program the NLG has generated a number of capacity
building workshops for senior staff as woll as elected representatives.
Project training has been decentralized to the three regions. The program
has among other things established a Training Unit headed by an expatriate
advisor, it has executed a number of training activities; instilled among
participants an increasing awareness of the need for improved performance
and has generally laid down the foundation on which to undertake
systematic  training  on  a  sustained  basis.   There  have  also  been
UNCHS/USAID/EDI training of trainers workshops which have contributed to
the MLG's efforts in local government training.
20. What ie needed and supported by the training program of the project
is to institutionalize the training strategy; to develop a coordinated
training delivery system which draws upon several institutions (rather
than only MLG); to link the training activities to policy reform and
revised procedures for the local government system; and to have the
program supported over a longer period time so that the developmental
effects of training can be built to the needed levels and effectiveness.
B. Obiectives
21. The objective of the training program is to enhance and develop
local Government training, the capacity of the MLG, local governments (and



Annex 3
63                       Page 15 of 18
training institutions) wLthin Malawi. The training program uses a three
pronged approach which includes: (a) strengthening of MLG in-house
training unit, (b) strengthening the Staff Training College of Hpemba and
(c) specialized training for higher level staff. This sub-component of
the Institutional Strengthening Component is closely linked to the Policy
Reform Component (Annex 2).
C. Executint Agency
22.   The MLG Training Unit would be responsible  for overseeing  this
component in conjunction vith training institutes including CSTC Mpembe, MIM
and MalawL Polytechnic which will be responsible for course design and
instruction.
D. Description
(a)    MLG Courses and Workshops
A key element of the training strategy is institutional
strengthening  of  the  national  training  institutes.  In
cooperation with the MLG, the STC and Halawi Institute of
Management will conduct workshops and seminars for MLG staff.
Courses will include supervisory management, planning and
project management, expenditure and control management. Short
term training will also be conducted by the MLG training unit.
(b)    Enhancing the MLG Staff Training Unit
The Training Program of the project would strengthen the MLG
trainLng unit and place lt on a firm footing for coordinating
training within the local government system. The training unit
will be re iponsible for selecting trainees and programs,
planning, conducting and coordinating all MLG training in close
collaboration with local authorities.   It will ensure all
training has clearly defined objectives and initiate the search
for additional resources to boost the training effort. The
training unit will undertake mAnpow r surveys, training needs
assessments for local authorities to determine and develop long
term staffing and training planss and liaise with DPHT. The
training progrum includes key needs to strengthen management of
local government. These are*
(L) A training counterpart to the training advisor has been
located in the MLG Training Unit.
(il) Additional equipment, supplies, etc. for the Training Unit
and regional offices would be provLded.
Decentralizing training to the three regional offices is
central to improving the delivery of courses. The training
unit would reach council staff through training staff of
its three regional offices. This staff, like those of the



Annex 3
64                      Page 16 of 18
central office, would be available to assist with training
of the STC.   The program would provide basic training
equipment and vehicles (ininbuses) for the regional
offices, as well as a 4 wheel drive for the central unit.
(See table 3.4).
(c)    Strengthening of the Staff Training Collage.
An important measure taken by the MLG in its efforts to increase
local government training capacity in the country is to
establish a program for local government at Mpemba. The training
program would support the appointment of trainers to teach in
the areas of accountancy, local government administration, local
government and planning. Provision has also been made for
equipment, technical assistance and study.
E. Component Implementation
23.  The three-pronged training program includes strengthening of MLG in-
house training Unit, strengthening of the Staff Training College in Mpemba,
and training of higher staff. The training would be conducted by the MLG
training unit, the Staff Training College, the Polytechnic in Blantyre and
the Malawi Institute of Management.
Table 3.5:   ACTIONS  TO BE TAKEN  TO  IMPLEMENT  THE  INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPEMENT  COMPONENT
INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING          RESPONSIBLE      TO BE COMPLETED
ACTIONs                             AGENCY           BY:
Approval of necessary increased    MLG, Treasury   By February 15
budget allocation for MLG over a                      (or case by
7 year period                                        Negotiations)
Revised version of the scope and   MLG                      Done
content of the project component
providing support to councils
sent to Bank
MLG to forward a letter of           MLG                   Pending
understanding outlining the MLG,
STC and MIE roles in the
project, the scope and content of
the training and any
modifications in the training
component.
VB to send write-up based on MLG   Bank                     Done
training proposal to MLG



Annex 3
65                        Page 17 of 18
INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING            RESPONSIBLE      TO BE COMPLETED
ACTIONs                               AGENCY            BY:
MLGISTC to prepare proposal for a  MLG/STC
study of institution                                        Underway
strengthening needs for STC for
MDP consideration
MLG to obtai
understandi  lr"rsrtt                                    3:eNrnr9|
operational         *  * *                              *- 6Z* 
absorbed by
F. Component Timetable
24.   The bulk of this comOonent will be financed with IDA funds over a
period of seven years. Tentative funding (S250. 000) will be secured from the
Municipal Development Program (Eastern and Southerrn Africa Module) pending
proposal development by STC Mpemba and its approval by NDP (Harare).
B. Estimated Cost
Table 3.6:   MLAWI LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - Detailed Cost
Estimates for Training
(Malavi Kwacha)
ITEM        TOTAL    1=       INS      1984  1I85   1996   1997   1996
MIS
ThAMMN
1. Cosmau &   580,150   46,400    116AM    96,900  40,800  124,723  91,000  32.0O0
M L Q        _  _ _  _ __ _                                           _ _ _
2 couin &   40s,200   570     57a60    56o  a.oo00  57.600  57a,00  57600
& Coum M    686400   123o00    11500- 120,000  117,0o  114,000  18.300  20,600
4.oMI       16M00   45000    52.10    45,O  15,00   0       0       0
kwHoum
sub4O~    1,70,250  272,00    34,5  |319,0  20,100  296,325  166,60  120,200
ape
5. bff      13,683   14,112    15,A2    17,076  1676   20,661  22,726  25.000
E6 U mpmht   100,100   34.100    6,00  18,000  10,000  10,000  10,0Q0  10,000



Annex 3
Page 18 of 18
66
7. WN*s        310,001     12W7        01,667    091,67   0          0        0         0
sb44ow         848964      174,70      115,190    1.743  2A76    30,61    32,726    35,000
TOb ML2        ,2M 4   446,7           450,415    4482    256!6   328,96    199,62    155,200
STRENOTEM
NO STC
MPSdEA
1. Now Slat     WM         60,000     66,000     76oo0   70,M0    67,6846    0,630    106,293
2 EquP         52,60oo0    10,000      15,000     15,000    10,000   26OO     0         0
3 TA. & SlIdy  650.00      350,000    300,000    0         0         0        0         0
sh4od         V1A1,W   420,000      381.000    67,600   69,M6    90,446   06,63      10 293
HIGHER l_
TPANMN
1. _           974,400     143,6      143,8       14340   1320    130,00   125,_    139,20
2 O^           907,44      27x772     273,772    120,00   120,000  120,000   0          0
4oW           1,81,044   417,812     417,612    2,6    259,20    200   125,0    13,2W0
TOTAL          5,447,007   1,264,491   1,256,027   707,666   607,043  676,632   421,538  400,693
TRAOMM
OOMPONENT                               -Jr



67                             Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
MAIAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Infrastructure and Services Component
(This annex provides a description of the infrastructure and services
component of the proposed project. A more detailed description is
available in the project file where the project proposals for the three
main towns are filed.)
A. Summar
1.          The rapidly urbanizing Councils (towns and cities) are not
able to keep pace with the demand for land, infrastructure and urban
services. Investment in infrastructure lags well behind other sectors.
Even more critical is limited budgets, allocations and funding for
maintenance of existing assets. Building Council capacity to
effectively manage growth and administer the essential basic urban
services is a multifaceted task, which simultaneously must deal vith
fiscal matters, implementation capacity and technical/physical issues.
One pivotal and non-deferrable responsibility of the councils is to
provide basic infrastructure and services needs to have urban areas
function safely and efficiently.
B. Objectives
2.          This component of the project aim  to help provide
critically needed rehabilitation, maintenance and provision of new
infrastructure, services and developed land.  The support goes beyond
funding investmentcs it provides models, prototypes and opens
bottlenecks that are presently constraining local delivery of urban
services.
C. Executins Agency
3.          The individual councils wll b. responsible for the carrying
out of this component wLth support from MLOG.
D Description
Lilonwe
4.          The  Integrated Development Strategy  prepared by the
Lilongwe City Council (LCC) in 1990 identifies the infrastructure and
services required to support Lllongwe's 72 per annum population growth
rate and to plan the council's organization and finances. The strategy
has identified enviromuetal health and urban consolidation as the
council's priorities. The LGDP would support this strategy by
increasing and upgrading the housing stock, improving waste management



68                            Annez 4
Page 2 of 7
and municipal works facilities, developing updated planning systems and
improving transport integration.
5.          Provision of New Shelters Recent GOM diractives have
transferred the administration of existing traditional housing areas
(THAs) as well as the responsibility for developing new TMAs from the
Malawi Housing Cornoration to Local Authorities. Shelter has thus
become the major concern of the LCC, which estimate the demand for new
housing plots at 2100 per annum. Presently only about 120 plots are
developed each year.
6.          The Local Government Development Project (LGDP) would
develop about 3,200 services plots on a 176 ha. site in the Phwetekere
THA (Area 36/1). Infrastructure provided would include access streets
and storm water drainage, water reticulation, electricity supply,
sanitation and sold waste management. Housing units will not be
provided although a Building Materials Loan Scheme (BMLS) will be
implemented to assist beneficiaries in the construction of housing to a
minimum standard. Implementation vould be in stages of about 1000 plots
each.
7.          Two plot sizes have been establishedt  207 m2 (73Z of plots)
and 286 m2 (27Z of plots). Given an average household size of 4.5, the
plots would serve an estimated population of 14,386. Community
facilities to be provided include a neighborhood center, three local
centers, an Under 5 clinic, and THA administration unit, local markets
and open space.
8.          In additlon, a squatter upgrade scheme would improve basic
environmental health and living conditions in the squatter communities
of Phwetekere. As well as providing a basic level of infrastructure
(access and drainage, water supply, sanitation and solid waste
management), plots in the squatter areas will be demarcated and
occupancy certificates granted. It is envisaged that around 1,500 plots
will be improved and consolidated. The squatter population has been
estimated at 6,741, comprising 1,020 households.
9.          Traditional Housing Upgrades   The LCC is not permitted to
charge a property rate on temporary structures and many of the
inhabitants of TEA's are paying rent to absentee leaseholders. The
development of a comprehensive program for upgrading existing TEAs will
require a plan for cost recovery. A pilot project to improve the
environmental health and living conditions in the THAs through the
implementation of basic infrastructure improvements would be implemented
in Kawale, Sector 1 (Area 7) in parallel with a study of cost recovery
mechanisms   infrastructure provision would include paving the primary
residential distributor road, rehabilitating existing gravel/earth
secondary residential and access roads, installing lined drains and
improving water supply, sanitation and solid waste management. A
Building Materials Loan Program will also be made available to assist



69                             Annez 4
Page 3 of 7
with house improvements. There are 976 existing plots in Ravale, Sector
1, with a population of approximately 14,000.
10.         Waste Management: At present, fewer than 30Z of the city's
inhabitants benefit from the refuse collection system, and the city is
not able to offer an adequate pit latrine and septic tank emptying
service. The problems are most acute in the TRA and squatter areas
where there are no arrangements in place for the sanitary disposal of
either solid or liquid waste. The LGDP would support establishment of
(i) a sanitary landfill site in Area 38 south of Old Town; and (it) an
expanded solid and liquid waste collection system serving all residents
including squatter areas and THAs.
11.         Works Yard Upgrading: The Works Yard is the LCC's focus for
general maintenance work in the city. It is also the council's store
yard and home of the fire brigade. The Yard has grown without a
coherent plan. The structures on site are both in poor repair and
overcrowded, contributing to inefficiency. The LGDP would support a
comprehensive program of office and maintenance facilities renovation
and construction, site improvement and security up grading.
12.         Geographical Information Systems: The population of Lilongwe
is expected to double between 1990 and 2005. The LCC has recognized the
need to organize the process of city building in order to ensure
availability of proper infrastructure and municipal services. The LGDP
would strengthen the capabilities and facilities of the LCC through the
provision of training and urban information technology to make it the
focal point for computer methods for integrated urban mAnagement
applications. A short term (3 months) consultant would define the
hardware and software needs, two pilot physical planning areas
identified, hardware and software procured and technLcal assistance
provided over a period of one year to set up and implement the GIS
system and train LCC personnel in its use.
13.         Halangalangs Alternative Route: The integrated development
strategy highlights the need to carry out major improvements in the
traditional center of Lilongwe, the central market area (Halangalanga).
The LCC has already reconstructed Halangalanga Road, but this access
route is often congested with traffLc and insufficient areas for vehicle
parking are resulting in further congestion. The LGDP would support the
reconstruction of the existing servLce road as an alternative access to
the central market area and would including provisLon of off street
parking.
Blantyre
14.         With a population of 400,000 people, Blantyre is the largest
city in Halawi, as well as being its coimercial center. The city's
population growth rate of 4.25Z has outstripped the prorvision of houslng
services and amenities for the majority of the population. The Blantyre



70                             Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
City Council (BCC) is responsible for providing urban amenities and
services. The LGDP would support BCC's priority of improving the
quality of life of the majority of the population - those who live in
squatter areas and the Traditional Housing Areas.
15.         Site and Service Scheme: The transfer of authority and
responsibility for the Traditional Housing Areas from the MHC to local
authorities has resulted in BCC placing priority on provision and
servicing of shelter.  The traditional housing sector acconmodates
approximately 82Z of the population of the city, vith about 25Z living
in planned THAs and 57Z in unplanned TEAs and squatter settlements. The
Likabula East scheme would provide services for 980 plots including the
construction of a bitumised site access road, gravel plot access roads,
minimal stormwater drainage, water reticulation to kiosk supply, on-site
pit latrine sanitation and refuse skip collection points. Provision has
been made for coommunity and recreation activities as well as schools,
clinics and market sites. The site was chosen because of its proximity
to central Blantyre allowing pedestrian access to and from the
commercial center. Due to limited land availability in Blantyre,
standard plot size of 225 m2 has been adopted throughout.
16.         THA Pilot Upgrades Historically the Chilomoni area is one of
the older and more established TEAs close to the commercial center of
Blantyre and is one of the most densely populated. Zambia is a small
settlement of 138 developed plots within the Chilomoni THA. The Zambia
area has no public services and water standpipe and pit latrine
facilities are overloaded. The LGDP would provide services under a
pilot project to upgrade the Ambia TRA, including construction of gravel
roads, stormvrter drainage, the provision of pit latrines to 502 of
plots, refuse skip hardstandings and a footbridge to access the local
primary school.
17.         Produce Market Develouments: The BCC's primary objective in
providing and managing markets is to provide hygienic and orderly
trading outlets for all sorts of goods but mainly foodstuffs. The
market operation by BCC not only provides the community with these
facilities but the revenue derived from the leasing of stalls is a
significant source of funds for the city. BCC perceives the need for a
comprehensive development program for the improvwemnt of market
facilities within the cLty and particularly in areas of dense
population. The LGDP addresses this need through a major overhaul and
expansion of the main market in Libe together with new markets or
building improvements at Likabual Zast site and service area and
Chilomoni TEA Improvemeat area.
18.         Solid Waste Managements A refuse collection and disposal
service has existed in Blantyre for many years servicing the rateable
housing, commsercial and industrial areas as well as general amenity
areas such as markets and bus depots. Refuse is not collected from
squatter housing areas or TEAs and a recent survey found that in these
areas 73Z of inhabitants throw bury or scatter rubbish on their plot and



71                            Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
272 throw their rubbiLh lnto the river or burn it. The LGDP would
improve solid vast. management by improving collection within those
areas of the city which are presently serviced and extend the service to
the THA and squatter areas where little or no service is provided. The
waste management system would streamline the existing collectiou fleet,
introduce a 12 m3 skip collection service, extend the service into the
THAs and squatter areas using 2 m3 bins, and strengthen the fluid waste
collection service.
19.         Nkolokoti Parkway Link Upgrading: Nkolokoti Parkway Road
forms a loop around Ndirande Mountain linking the Lilongwe Road via the
South Lunsa TEA and the squatter settlement of Nk'-likoti and back to
join the main Tairanana Road to Zomba. The BCC pians to upgrade this
road too
-     divert industrial traffic from Chirimba away from the City
center.
3     provide an alternative route for traffic between
Lilongwe/Chileka Road and Zomba/Limbe.
o     encourage commercial and residential development of the
South Lunsu area by generating increased traffic and bus
services.
20.         Currently both ends of the loop are tarred vith a 3.60 km
gravel section iuthe middle. The LGDP would support the upgrading of
this section of the road to pavement.
21.         Zalewa Road-ztreetllahtints  The Likabula East site and
service scheme would increase both vehicle and pedestrian traffic along
the Zalewa road to the city center. The LGDP would install
streetlighting on the first section of the Zalewa Road going north from
Blantyre on the Lilongwe and airport road to increase the safety of both
motorists and pedestrians using the road.
22.         Computer Reauirements  The Computer Department of the BCC
needs upgrading to allow for more efficient rates billing and to provide
better management lnformation. BCC has comissioned OPMG Peat Marwick
consultants to make recommendations on financial management systems
employed by the Council. The LCDP would provide computer hardware,
software technical support and training.
Zomba
23*         Zomba is a small town vith a population of 54,000 dominated
by Government Institutions and with relatively little private coumercial
enterprise. The small rate base resulting from thLs, in conjunction
with poor financLal management has resulted in the continued financial
decline of the Municipality over many years. The Zomba Municipal



72                             Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Council (ZKC) intends to invest the majority of the LGDP loan in
strengthening its commercial enteeprlses which will then provide a
sustainable revenue increase.
24.         Upgrade of Ngonsomwa and Chinenwvli Secondary Marketst The
Municipality of Zomba has seen the development over the years of
smaller, more informal markets in the squatter areas and THAs. These
markets are generally unplanned and have evolved as the needs of the
populations served increased.   The ZMC has been collecting some revenue
from vendors in these markets since 1986, but the charges have been
limited due to the low level of service provision. The ZMC has applied
to Lands and Valuation for long term lease of the land where the market
is situated and intends to exert some controls to ensure that certain
minimum standards of hygiene and cleanliness are met. The LGDP would
support the amelioration of the buildings and landscaping to establish a
spacious and clearly defined trading center along the lines of the
successful Zomba Central Market and allow the ZMC to increase its
receipts from vendor assessments.
25.         Bus Depot Improvements: 2MC has a 99 year lease on land
occupied by the Zomba bus depot and the buildings on the site, which
were constructed in 1974, now belong to the Municipality. The buildings
are in need of repair and the present floor plan causes congestion of
passenger flow and poor security. The LGDP would renovate and expand
the present facility to improve general circulation and in particular to
relieve the congestion of the entrance, ticket sales area, shops and
passenger shed. The improved facilities and doubling of commercial
space would ensure continued revenue growth to the ZMC
26.         Vehicle Inventory and Acquisitionst Because of severe
financial difficulties the Municipality of Zomba has been unable to
replace outdated and poorly functioning vehicles or to fill long
standing gaps in its transport fleet. This has inhibited the ability of
the municipal work force to provide consistent and reliable services to
the community.  The ZMC will survey the existing vehicle fleet to
identify serviceable units. The LGDP would fund repairs as well as
procurement of new vehicles and plant.
Other Towns
27.         Vehicles and Equipment: The investments in other towns would
focus on essential measures to improve operation and maintenance
capabilities. The investmets to be funded through the Project are for
vehicles and equipment with the objective of protecting existing
infrastructure investments and maintaiuing a rudimentary level of
service in, for example, roads, solid waste management and
latrine/septic trank emptying.



73                          Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
5. ImDlementation Responsibility
28.         Zach participating council will be responsible for
implementing their respective subcomponents. Support would be provided
by the ML¢, primarily through the extension offices and the Councils
Management Advisor.
29.         Throughout project implementation, Government, acting
through the MLG, would be required to ensures
(i) that auditing of accounts of the MLG and of participating
Councils, covering project accounts and the Special Acconts, is
carried out according to an agreed schedule and submitted to IDA
annually;
(Li) that specifications for equipment to be procured be completed
no later than Oct*ber 31, 1992;
(iii) that implementing agencies submit quarterly and annual
reports as required;
(iv) that the Councils will prepare detailed design and
engineering studies for the sites and services and upgrading sub-
components of the project. These will be forwarded to IDA for
review and comment prior to finalising bidding documents;
Cv) that equipment and services for major civil works will be
procured using ICB and LCB procedures as agreed. Llongwe,
Blantyre and Zomba will prepare their own bid documents for
procurement of consultant services and equipment. MLG will
prepare bid documents for equipment, vehicules, etc. for the other
local authorities.



Annex 5
74                             Page I of S
NALMNX
LOCL GVIRXIU DIVI PXIT  ROJECT
The table below presents a detailed overview of the project
cost estimates.
Prajmll CenipoeW.                           TOW LMS 000
,~~~~~~~~~O Ito  TOW
I. p0gWky,ow                                             _
_. Sadi  & W oC                                          TI
PFn. Man hudy WM PPF)                     47          419        46
PFwan MidanswtWksh                         66           24        120
Loo.GOvt LSO.Rev. S.*                     a           as  7_
Loo.GovL Log.Re. Wkhp                     46           12         o0
P Oludy on ro d  C                        S           27         30
Poky Wah. an ro d DoC                     48           12         60
Wah dd. msof blUMA                        46           I2          0
Pl. ftdy on eandev.                        5           41         46
P@IWWoop                              46           12         6
b. Avlw_
MLG SMQmISVAdv.                         115          461        a7
MLG Ch Teh. Adv.                        79          317        396
MLO StPTrah Adv                        116          461        576
MLO Fin. AnhdjEan Av                      as          211       234
WuWW                              711         2075       277
Phi1 Can                            71          206        276
Pd  Oant                            49           76        127
Tda uM ta                                      2as         s3ss
L     wimuglmnbt MI MLO             ___          ___
.a.    m    op. Camm
MLW Addilond ShN                       279            0        276
MLO COUe MAccaddan                       397            0         w
ML_&Ibdlr-h3I.IU                        100            0        100
*   Obdi O                            S0             0        300
MulBlomIaGM                            10           10         20



0
In         U
K W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 3
--- - -gUMRff  E   -  ---- - - 
I MttASt000t I'
IitA: L:tHd0::Lii
W~ m    --- --------   -      



76                                     Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
PeA  corp      t                               TOW Ul 000
_______ _______ _______ _______ _______   Loaw        Foreig        TOWi
IV. Tr*g
a. MLG T   n__
Couue & Woi*aho MLO                          149           37         186
Cou_s d STC                             173           43         216
MLC kh4au" T tni                           42            11          53
GMf TmaMI Lgnlt                          36             9          45
Equ4pmt                               27             7          34
Vae                                  84            21         105
b.Sttwqie*  STC MP4M              = 
EqIlpment-                           14             4          16
TA & Sudy(DP)                            176             420
c._Hihr Lel Tng                               _
Naonad Fdov*a                            263            as         32
Ovareess Cowues                         246            6S         307
cv
1210          305        1513
_______________        "  yaCat                             121            30         151
Pulc"                                122            21         140
Tot Subkt                            1453           354        1807
V. Llrongws-                                _____   _
SMes&SeM1oe                           3165          1715        4000
THN_ quew UpW&dhV                         1164           a7         1790
Sodd We Manm                                115          2182       2206
W oaf Depot                           237           237         473
MeluIgiuoa Road                          17           414         651
20          374         304
SUoal                               4607          we         10445
Pycore                               490           555        1045
_im Caont              ,40                         790        l6w
Tot ubt                              63e6          a          1310



IUsn
44
0
--   - I      - -| 8- |- i|          - --- l|      m  1eFl |||  -|  -| | - -M    | |  -- s|     - s|
I j ?1 1- 1'1N   *3!833tt St
l~~~~~~                  -- X-  l§1s1 



In in
muw
" 4 
- _           _ h _ -  _ 2 E 2 -
In 3u 1t I



79                                    Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
FINANCING PLAN
MALAWY LOCAL GOVERNMENr DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0umwy Phimb F%n
us Odo OWs
2R  UNDA   MM        MEP   GM    Coxis   ToWl
L PCACY REFORM
amiimand Wadmhop      94        0   150       0       0      0         0    1096
Ad's              0    76    6         667      0      0         0    204
8Ub41           046    70   616                 0      0          0    3106
L INSN1unONAL.
biw.nwl Opmng    1105          0      0       0      0   1034          0    2139
C-N& MLG
Ad,lso sMLO        46    o0        0       0      0       0         0    1367
Ew%w"              67 W2     0      0       0      0      0          0     62
ha a n   Opuaig       70       0      0       0      0      0       4381    44C1
C4aunis
Advlos Couna        406       0     0       0       0      0         0      405
shdms. Couw         a m      0      0       0     46       0         0      654
Tran           15w        0     0       0    250       0         0    160
O86.1           am      050      0       0    2U    1034       438    11665
L INPRASTRURE
AD EaUN
Uaos           10644      0      0       0      0      0       235    13129
hImIym         5514      0      0       0       0      0       110W    6422
ZahlS            54      0      0       0      0       0         0     654
0hw           139        0     0       0       0      0         0    1209
16001     0      0       0      0       0      3303   21294
TOAL           2400    1710   616    667    2S    1064        7724   30246



80                                     Annex 7
Page l of 8
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation and Procurement Plan
The following two tables detail the implementation and
procurement arrangements for each project component.
Tabe 1: hiemtaitn pln                            Mon1 *am                    Targe De0.
Pokiy Return                                     own        Completd          _
S.          SWIS ad Wo  1hop
jFk u Mangemet Skjdy                  2           12              06192     a1n9
R rFinl Managel m  Worlshop          9          S               090
Local OO nMMnt Legili  S8idy         3          6                Om         12/92
Loa Govenmenwt Review Workso         6          0                12/        12/92
|Polc  Wdy on rol roleof DC            7          15              01/96      07193
________PokIy Warkeliop an r* of DC            Is         is              ow         0619
Workshop de. role of MLWLAS          9          9                069        Os9
Poldy eady on eoo O* develop.        12         16       0        0         12199
PocyWorhop                           24         24              0694        0694
b.          Advm 
_______  MLG Managmwit AdvIso                  6          33              09/9       OWN9
M_ _  ChL Tech AdvIor                3          32              O       _  06
______   MWO PersnnVhahigm AdvIso              3          33              OW         OWN9
______   MWORv Fi Ancl  al/btonornft Adviso   3           27              OWN9       OW4
bhuihona MkVftrV k mLe
a.          bMaims  Opuulodw  CasN               3          63               10192      OWY
MW Addinal SOW                       3          as               10192  .On
_________KW OUoe Accmoxdaln                   3          as               10/9       0919
__o &asiuapawlae                     3          es               10/92     o01
M_____ MW    Sam                     3          6e              11M    owo
MLGSllorry                           S 3        6as              1012       097
MWI2>..                              3          as               10192      OW
MW Vells                             3          as               Iwo        069
b.          Ads__
MLO  E      _ _ Maagsmt AdvIsr       9          24               N"         9/4
MW Aooosantl                       1            21              011         9194



ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1tAtAt!ttmCEC2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 "0 
-1[II-IIIjiii[i              U       liii



82                                  Annex 7
rOge 3 of 8
Ta  1: ip          pin                       mo| h fm Smt| Targ Da"s
S and eSAM                        12        4_ OWN   mm
THA Sqsr Upgmdfr                  12        46            0own       0m
Sold Was_ Manut                   7         24             01/M0     O       l4
_    LiquI Wau   mnas              12        27             07MB      1094
Wod Depot                         9         15             03M        6mB
_____   Mangabaig Road                       24        U0 OWN
_GeoWat  hftnmion Synbm           12        15             OWN       OR9
U                                              _ _
Mast Oevsloe                      15        27             WA        M
a"NW_s1dBuI                       12        46             own       O6ff
_ _ Ain14_ A Upgrade              19        a              01/94       W7
Sold Waws Mwnwnuw                 9         16             OsMG      12/W
_____  ~Palomay Lh* Upgr-,ad               U0        67             OWNS      0W
____  _ buemalabo                 24        U              04N   OWN
Depo h9                                    is            06M        12M
________Ngongonwe Mm$* otUgrade           S         54             O6m        12MB6
________  CN*'s,d Meika UpgWmb               9         54 O.MS                   12MB
_______WlVlhle                            B         54              ownB      12MB
Now Asabouss                     0          54             Om=       12/96
_________Squatwar Upgrade Sahaina -m                54              OSMS      1245
ERumst                            I         U0                       am
8ql~ -oh



83                                  Annex 7
Page OTT
Tb 2: Plalmmss anm__nw
Pros            Fundin     Tol 8O
___________________________________   _____________ agency    cost 000
IPaloy manc_                           _                        _
aI swdim & Wol A          .                        _
Fh. mmn  dy (PM m} )                      V     8      lm Sonia 10     45
cora#&iM  uisobd      and d
N wask   (Anne 2)
und.y.  by IDA. te
TbTAWsbi'for work   mgi by
InhAa  2I       NDF
Fhlmi  _wmgw         Wkh _E
Lo_.QovL L.Rv. ...dy       .      | lb     i A            ODA           75
Lo.o.t Lg.Rov. Wk                           .:            ODA          eo
Polay WV, on robe of _
W*Ldel. roea f MLGAA:                                      VA|          00
PaL Shady on o4n.dwL L
Po oy Woduhap 
b.                            J nvldmmMi                         0,
MM Mwwnemnl A&.                   ____wh"                  m 
ML  Ch. Teh. Av.                          30 no"       UNDP          99s
ML WPThkLM Av                             S/m                        US GM7
II             MWM Fin AhwJJEoon. Adv                       24 nVm      UNDP 2j4
___ol*           279
rt"   cost                      2__        _    _     _9_
Me Ca                                         _                  127
Ta tS _ubl                                                       3160
L hulanglanng I MWO
a biaIMMi Op. Ooa
MAW  dlondl            Dlhbwnu ai So  aond                           279
MWO Offes Aoomowd&fA                 a__         _Sm                   367
M.  &tuo E     hbAud quW    GOM nd                                     100
MW   i_bsl S_                          _  .:_    ._      .          30



84                                 Annex 7
Page 5 of 8
Ta   Roman" an:ngenw                                              
agee dh    To   e
M________________________________________ _______________ age2cy Coa $ '000
MLO Ownricy                              , .          *.           20
.~~~~M   Coulosae                                     .5.          -.:2
MLO vh                                               .          250
b. MAWS                                                          0
MLU Esa Mam Mv.                           24 im           A         384
ML AoCountt 1                           24 nVm       UNDP         a64
MLO Acoou___ 2                          12 nVm       UNDP          132
216 mlm      UNDP          432
PFO Prop Stidy (PPF)                   Cone,            IA          400
Otw *qLdp Put PPFICE procured as               IDA         771
K:^ pdzkats
Subo_                                                         374_
PhysCont                                                       335
Pr"  c   C nt              ______________     ________         312
Tat Subdot                                                     4396
IL hIetw. I couc                                  _
a. khwcrenWl op. o_   _
THA IdmlPISn       big 4                               Councle       3405
ZOMMZU Paihwb Vec                  icK P.*=d wIh          DA          6o
.quonmesmane
b. Ade_
MahtyWMfllg4                            24nvm         IA          360
LL THA manwe  (ODP)                                       MDP          41
UL fah. t Abow de f_                   _ _NDP                        10
UL Pro prp PP_                        LC8 an%         BA          220
UL @  Tralh                                          IDA          24
BLA Dat Eng PPP                        LC. fim        BDA         225
ZOM Proj Prop PPF                       LOS, *m        IDA          65



rl% coT M:2llrkI1 o -
---  - m             T     - -U                -    -            - --- 
*               ---             - a   -  a    a                   -            -0 I I
-                                                                                
in   -  -  - - -~i                                                    
co ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~                                             --- -



86                                     Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
TOMl 2: Pumiaemuangeem______                                ________
ProosaumeM      hFwnin       Toi Baa.
________________________________________   ______________   agency  O ce     $     low
V. .ing_
sIieesevmo                         IC  Spb In ta          IDA         49W0
THAftquatkr UpWgdin                  LO  One Package       Coun           1790
gold Wase Mallngwt                    KA Ore pacag             DA  2_       _
Wiak DOepo                  I-     U Ore package          VA          473
MalengalA"ga  Kdl OnePackage                                 IDA          ml
as                               D~___ _        A           3M
8cot_                                              _10445
__                       _  _sO0              _____ __                             1046
Tat SLM                                                             13129
VL                           _____
M      _eDevdopmen                   Ice One pacag           DA          1180
_Wm serim                                 LCB hre    Co unu              m
pa"
____ .                                                                                _     __
squalW/TA Upgrade                     Ice Oro  ackag          IDA         2ss
s1ad We   _mngmet                      Ice One p a             IA          1731
POAite lid  Wupgad                   IU One paag             VDA          471
OA  ~gIce one pacg                                        VDA        2M0
Conpsi              C08 One package                       DA          369
loge  vwl obw
Phys Ca                             5102
0"on                                                                 510
CaMe                                                             810
Ta  hb                                                               am
VL Zan"
Do DepMk upcomw                       Los One p g              VA           139
Ngangmm Me" Upaud                       LOS One pakgDA                        140



87                                Annex 7
Page 8 of
TeW 2: Pfoumwnumu uiuigsmt            ______   ___   __
Proasuumwt     FWKdg    Tolu 1m
Chlnuwm  market Uprade             Lee CEo pekqg        IDA         115
Vehideo                         BB colh           IDA         41
LL  L... ~        equnw
Subod__                            _    _      _             485
Prim Carol                                                     7
Tot SubU                                                      654
_     ~~.  _~            __ _ _                             __ ___ _
Mzmmu: Sad waft man.                                   IDA         871
M.wj. N_W Wada Dow                                     IDA          16
LAhuahea Takwr                                       IDA         17
LUahema.' Rd Ma ol q.            D__ _                   A.         Ue
NlaohsTrmnps                    ._____               V           186
MNmbd Tunpost                                        I8_  D       J
ai'Tanker                                           IDA          a
Olims. Pbo equip.             __ _ _                   A          as
NumnW. Tranpor               D______                   A         86
N oiipI                       _ __ ___I_DA.____                   14
Phscar.t                  _10
Np   m Cast                _,_                                 .4
Tot    ublot                __  _ _  __  _    _  __  _1
Projed km Cad Tomd___________                                    8627
NM OCt                                                       2913
wOmd ToMl                                        -



88                             Annex 8
Page 1 of 16
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPHIT  PROJECT
Financial Analysis
This annez contains two partst
a/ The detailed budget for MLG, and
b/ Projected operational income and expenditures, and cash-flow
an&lysis for the nine participating local councils.



Annex 8
89                                 Page 2 of 18
VOTE 0: MINITY OF LOCAL aOV utNME
Cantuelng    me. Ix..... ,ferLouul Gemmt
r-3STZNASS of the amount requLrd la the fJL.anO&L  yes  ending 31st March,  1192, for Salaries and &xpenses
of miaLstry of Local Gcvgrn ton
Seven millLon, eight hundred and seentry-forty thoQsand, seven hundred and *eventy-seven Kwacha.
(K7,874,777)
3-s    ayARy Or 0 X XSSTlNATZS P6R PROCRAK
2989/90                    1991/91                 1991/92
Actual          Approved         Rev ied        Sathmate
K                X                K               KC
TLtle. of Programma
001   Adi"intration and General                           648,796         744,374          704,706          771,369
002   Local Authorities services                        4,813,083       3,501,232        3,451,767        S,56S,353
003   Sports                                              901,309         698,814          970,376       1,044,460
004   Local Government serviLe CrrLaLon                   286,321         376,944          396,493          4J3,595
Total   Amount                                   6,649,509        1,523,364       5,523,364        7,874,777
1989/90                   1990/91                1991/92
Actual           Approved         Revised        SatLeat-
It      K                         K               K
001  Admlniatration and Ceneral
2stabliahmant (See AppendLx K for breakdown)
PURSONAL 32QLWnMyS
001  Salaries                                            164,386         192,794          149,69S         191,481
002  Non-^etablihefd Staff                                16,214          19,772           16,105          19,S64
TOTAL  Pr3u0KAL .  DLWHR2S                             180,602         212,566          166,000         211,045
00005 AND SIRV!CsS
105  Cleaning MaterLala                                    5,476           7,000            7,000           7,000
107  Consumable Store... ..                               8,364           11,000           15,000          10,000
JIC  Education Allowance           .                      11,227               0                0                0
112  Nxternal Travel                                     3Sa)  1,339      20,000           10,000          20,000
113  Sxternal fravellLng Allowance        .      a)       11,887          15,000           12,000          16,000
116  fuel and LubeLeanta                                  59,030          61,500           71,000           56,000
117  Heating and Lighting                                 13,802          12,000           12,000           12,000
118  miring costs                                         16,367          15,000           30,000           1l,000
119  Hospitality Expene o.                                13,481          14,000           17,500           13,500
121  Hotel Charge .s                                      23,174          30,000           44,700           30,000
122  Inaunanc                                                185           1,708            1,6S1            2,000
123  tneernal TraLning..                                       0               0                0           30,350
124  Leave Gran', Transfar C9L turb ae Allowances          4,894           1,600            6,500            6,000
128  Maintenance of NuLldLnge.                  (a)        3,600          11,000           11,500           1S,000
131  Maintenance of Notor Vehlel..                        63,866          S0,000           64,000           10,000
135  MinJiters  Allowances                                3S,463          36,000           23,000           48,000
137  Postage and Postal Chargea                               92           1,000              200              460
136  PrLnting Costs                                          888           4,000              S00            2,126
140  PublicatLon and Advertising  .                        3,436           3,000            S,000            3,386
141  Public Tranwport                                      3,107           6,000            6,000            1,500
146  Statlonery                                           63,813          61,000           49,000           60,000
147  SubsLte nce Allowance,                               13,993          11,000           1l,000           1S,000
148  Telephone Charges..                                  48,686           0,000           50,000           40,000
149  Selex and Telegraph Charles                           3,468           3,000            3,841            4,000
110  Transport  Claims..                                  23,487          21,000           16.100           16,000
132  Vniform and ProtectLve Clothing                       6,961           12,000          lS,000           10,000
113  Water and Sanitation                                    U 4            4,000           4,000            4,000
TOTAL  00008 AND S3RVCSS                               467,194           U1,606         493,110          491,324



90                                         Annex 8
Page .s of Is
0-POCORA2@U8( OontOnuLdC
lOIP/lO                  2990/91               '91
APPV@,ed'  *          ._         99/92
CAPITAL VORIBTToi
309  Purchage of rurciture an& Fittinge... .t             1,000          20,000          11,19&            6,000
313  Purchas. of Office 3quipat   0..           .                        150 l5l,000                       Slow
322  Replaement of rnLtuar  ar*c pitttigw    .                0          15,000          1S,00O            4 o00o
323  Replacement of Notor V*hiLoler..                         0               O               O           50,000
TOTAL  CAPITAL VORMATZOV                                1,000          50,000          41,596           65,000
Program. 001-Coat Cent-r 001 TOTAL                   644,794          744,374         70*,709          771,369
Programe 001 TOTAL                                   S4,7             744,374         704,70'          771,364
002  Local Authortiei  Servicee
3stablishment, (Sea Appendix I for breakdown)
PURSON7L ZHOLUUTS
001  Salarie                                   .        964,S67       1,271,314         900,569        1,196,472
002  Non-Established Staff  ..          ..                3,0U3           4,308            5,000           4,309
TOTAL  PBRsoIAL 3MOLmK7rS                             970,730       1,275,622         905,16         1,200,760
GOODS AND SERVICES
105  Cleaning HateiLals                                     766           2,000             900            2,000
107  Connumable Stores..                                  1,061           2,100            3,000           2,10O
L12  Ixternal Trave          .    .            (a)        2,942           6,000          26,000           10,000
113  Xxternal TravelUng Allowance..            (a)       10,930          13,000           13,800          12,000
116  fuel and Lubricants                                 29,917          23,00           37,000           50,000
117  Heating and LightLg                                   627           2,700            5,500           3,000
118  HLrlng Costs                                        69,742          42,000          123,618          25,000
121  Hotel Charge                                        28,817          30,000           58,991          25,000
123  Snternal Training..                                  2,900           2,000            3, 0W          36,000
124  Leave Grant, Transfer SDiturbanen Allownaces       22,972          24,000'          22,000          20,000
131  MaLntenance of Motor Vehle..s..                          0          11,000           24,000          40,000
140  Publication and AdvetLsiang                              0           2,000            3,500           4,000
141  Public Tranot ..                                     7,967          10,000            6,00W          10,000
146  Statione r        .                 .                7,930           7,000           10,00            6 8,000
147  SubaLstence Allownce           .    .               34,806          60,000           60,000          70,000
148  Telephone Charge..            .                       ,725          10,000            6,000          10,000
150  Transport  Clms..                    ..             14,732          17,000           13,000          14,326
112  UnLform and Protectve Clothg               .           OS5           3,500            S,000           3,500
153  Water and Sanitation                                 3,435           3,000            5,100           4,000
178  Local Authority By-l1ctLo"- -                      687,462               0                0          30,000
189  National Cementery            .    .       .             0          30,000                0          20,000
TOTAL  COODS AND S62vrCRu                             916,704         306,700          430,809         401,320
CAPITAL TRSANW Vr
201  Grants (See Appendlx IZ for UstailS)             2,653*.33       1,666,910        2,082,910       3,737,247
202  SubecriptLons                .    .    (b)               0                0               0           1,000
ToSAm  CAPfTAL TNANSIUU                             2,613,363        1,666,910       2,0S2,910       3,736,247



91                                         Annex
Page 4 of 18
VOTE 036: FMWS1Yr OP LOCAL COVMURMSIr-(condnundm
C-PjRO0GxAXS-I  oen( 
1969/90                  1990/91                 1991/92
Actual           Appcovnd        Revlund          statse
CAPTAL. FORHATtOW N                                                        K               K
309  Pucchaso of ruenituge and  lttlings                 31666           13,000          13,500           20,000
311  Purchaoe ot Moter VhIcles                 ,             0                0               0          1800ooo
313  PueChase of office tquJpn.nt               ,           £00          19,000          19,000           20sooo
TOTAL  CAPtTAL  pAStWrTOw                              32,266          32.000          321,00          225.000
prcrame 002-Cost Center 001 TOTAL                   4.813.083       3,501,232       3,4312787       S5565.3Si
Progam. 002 TOTAL                                  4,613,063        3,101,232       3,4SL,767        S,S6S,3S3
003  Spocts
Iscablishm nt (see AppeadLx t for broakGown)
001 Sport. Headqu&tirs
PasoNAL  KOLOMHTS
001  SalacLe.                      .                     87,367         100,962          93.457          102,938
002  Non-eta-blLsh.d Staff                                1766            2,154           2.412            2,520
TOTAL  PZRSOMAL sUHoWnsts                              69,153         103,136          9s,a69          105,418
oows ANDO suav%CtU
101  Cleaning MatceiaL       .           ..   ..          1,007           2.000           2,000            2,100
107  Consusabl- Storeo..                 ..                               3,000           6,500            4S500
112  Xxe-rnal Travel              2. ..                  25,066          21,000          -1l.100          28.023
113   xe-rn-l Travelling Allowace..            (a)       46.946          32.000          22,000           4S,000
116  tu-l  nd Lubrcanlto    .       .                    14,401          17,000           lO,000          20,000
117  8eatInq and Lghltng           .      . .,              769           3,000            2.000           4,000
118  Hicing Coss             ..       ..t                26.641          20,000           20,000          23,000
119  voospLta1Ly Sxpene x                 .    .            191           3,000            1,000           2,000
121  Hotel Charge                  .            .        19,739          20,000           26,500          22,000
122  tnsurance         ..    .            .                   0           1,000            1,000           1.000
123  tnternal Tr   Lang..    .     .                     10,000          20,000            3,000          22,000
124  Leave Great, traCehr *OLeturbence Allowae as         1.764           2,100            2,100           3,000
120  Miantfnanc Of UuldLgo.    ..               (a        1 ,06           3.000            2,000           2,000
131  MaLnuenance of Motr V acle. -           ..               0          10,000            6,500          1.000
137  Postage  and Poeftl Charge                              47             200              120  |          210
138  Printing Costs          ..    ..       ..               21             900              900             100
140  PubileatIo  and AdveoirAsLng  .    ..                5,007           6,320            3.020           6.400.
141  Pullc Traort            .      .    ..    ..         9,622           6,500            5.000         , ,000
146  StatLonery         .     .    ..    ..    ..         1.616           6.000            8,000           8,000
147  SubsLStence AlLOUnce  ..    ..    .                  7,926          10.000           12,000          12,000
1"  Telephoe Charges..    .   .          ..    .           .321           6,000            7,000           7,100
149  Telex  nd TeSltap  Charge  ..        .     .             0             2S0              100             210
1s0  Transport CULae..   ,.              .. ...          13.962          16.000           11,23S           17,100
112  UnLow  and Protecte Clothing   ..          .         6,960          15.000        .10000              16,000
153  Water and SanitatLon .             ..    ..             00           2.200            1.000            2,000
1tS  All Africa Cees                     .      .             0 a             0                0          17,047
176 OLympIe FootOall Tournm_nt           a.    .              0               0                0               0
1?7  World Youth U20 Tounasu_    ..    .        ..      100.323           10,620          U3.500           14,419
TOTAL  @OO0 Alm S3RVtCUs                              301.a21         239.490          267,071          342,889
CAPltAL  usnSl                                      --
201  Grants (So  AppendLx II fow coaaLs)                 45 730)          64,000          64.00o           74,2S0
202  SubscrIptIoas (see  ppendxL tIt for 6.94LI)         2,9.7             0410 .O8.000                    40.000
TOTAL  CAPITAL puAg3p3 ek34                                          ".i4,a00         1u.O0U           tl4#2tW



Amex 8
VOTII OU  MINSRY Of ML GOVERNMENT-(conrinued)             Page 5 of 18
C-PRO0RAHKXs-( Continued
1989/90                   1990/91                 1991/92
Actual           Approved         Rsvised         Estimate
CAPITAL FORI4ATONX
308  Purchase of EquipmOnt and Plant              ,       18,194           18,000          18,000           19,500
309  Purchase of FurnLture and Fittings                    1,942            5,500           1,500            7,000
313  Purchase of Office Squipm nt                              0            2,750           2,750            4,500
316  Rehabilitation of Buildings                               0                0                0           5,ooo
TOTAL  CAPITAL FORMATION                                20,136           26,250          22,250           36,000
Programme 003-Cost Center 001 TOTAL                    480,507          452,876         488,094          598,597
002 xamuzu stadium and Blantyre Youth Centre
PERSONAL MOLUMZNTS
001  Salaries                                             10,296           13,368           13,368          13,812
002  Non-tstablished Staff                                18,758           25,149           27,631          27,969
TOTAL  PZRSONAL ZMOLUMENTS                              29,054           38,517           40,999          41,781
GC0OS AND SZRVICZS
103  Ammunition and Explosivens                            1,284              500              100             200
105  Cleaning Materials                                    4,832            2,300            7,200           3,500
107  Consumable Store..                                   11,709           20,000           11,000          15,000
116  Fuel and Lubricants                                   1,296            3,800            3,600           4,500
117  Heating and Lighting                                 15,743           22,000           17,000          22,500
118  Hiring Costs                                          9,775            8,800            6,000           9,SOO
121  Hotel Charges                                           140            1,400            2,500           2,000
122  Insuranco                                               396              880              373           1,000
124  Leave Grant, Tr&nsfer lOisturbenco Allowances           765              960            1,500           1,000
128  Maintenance of BuL1dingn.                   (a        2,143           15,000            8,000          10,000
132  Maintenance of Plant and YquLpment                      136            9,000            S,000           5,000
134  Maintenance of Water Supplies..                       2,535            8,000            2,000          10,000
137  Postage and Postal Charges                                0               50               20               50
138  Printing Costs                                           74            2,800            1,000           2,800
140  Publication and Advertising                             350              700              700             800
141  Public Transport                                        351              550              400             600
146  Stationery                                            2,796            3,000              800           2,500
147  Subsistence Allowanco                                   600            2,000            1,500           2,SOO
148  Telephone Charges..                                   7,926            S,500            4,350            6,000
150  Transport  Claims                                         0      -     2,500              600           2,800
152  Uniform and Protective Clothing                      11,633           13,250           12,500           13,500
153  Water and Sanitation                                 39,772           42,000           59,000          50,000
TOTAL  COODS AND SUrVCSJ                               114,256          164,900          145,145          165,750
CAPITAL FORMATION
303  Constructlon of Buildings                            15,260           37,521           43,200           30,000
308  Purchase of Equipent and Plant                       82,410            7,749           39,0u0            8,500
309  Purchase of Furniture and FLttings ..    ..          26,247           20,000           40,000           10,000
313  Purchase of Office Equipment                              0            4,500              500            2,000
316  Rehabilitation of  uildings                          50,495            9,730           14,550            5,000
322  Replacement of furniture and Fittings                     0            4,000            7,000            3,000
TOTAL  CAPITAL FORMATSWN                               174,412           83,500          144,250           58,500
Programme 003-Cote Center 002 TOTAL                    317,722          287,007          330,394          266,031



93                                         Annex 8
Page 6 of 18
VOTE an: MNSTY OF LOCAL GOVIRNM&NW-(conrinu#4
c-PRmGRAMmzS-( Continued )
1989/90                  1990/91                 1991/92
Actual           Approved         Revised        EseLmate
K                K                K               K
003 XamUZu Institute for Youth
pF )NAL EMOLUMZNTS
O.   Salaries                                           39,949           44,403          43,900           44,774
002  Non-Sst4blished Staff                                  634              718             718            4,308
TOTAL  PERSONAL EMOLUMENTS                             40,583           45,121          44,618           49,082
GOODS AND SERVICES
105  Cleaning Materials                                     958            ',500            1,500           1,500
107  Consumable Stores..                                  2,485            3,000            1,000           3,000
116  Fuel and Lubricants                                  3,925            4,500           3,500            5,000
117  Beating and LightLng                                     0            1,000            1,000           3,500
118  Hiring Costs                                         3,451            6,500           6,500            7,000
121  Hotel Charges                                        S,3S1            8,000           9,500           10,000
123  Internal Training.                                  20,287           25,000          24,000           25,000
124  Leave Grant, Transfer CDiseurbanca Allowances          800            1,260           1,700            1,440
128  Maintenance of UuL1dings.                  (a)           0            2,000           2,000            2,000
131  Maintenance of Motor Vehicles..                          0                0               .0          10,000
132  Maintenance of Plant and Squipmt n                   1,294            2,800           1,000            1,500
134  Maintenance of Water Supplies..                          0            1,000           1,000            1,500
137  Postage and Postal Charge                               15               SO              20               60
138  Printing costs                                          50              500              150             550
140  Publication and Advertising                          2,000            2,200             200            2,200
141  Public Transporet                                    1,157            2,000            1,700           2,500
146  Stationery                                           2,512            3,500           2,500            3,500
147  Subsistence Allowance                                1,030            3,000           4,500            4,500
148  Telephone Charges..                                  1,995            2,000           3,000            4,000
150  Transport  Claims.                                       0            1,500            1,500           1,500
152  Uniform and Protective Clothinq                      9,028           15,000          18,500           15,000
TOTAL  GOODS AND S8RVIC5S                              56,338           86,310          84,770          105,250
CAPITAL FORMATION
308  PurChase of Equlpment and Plant                      6,159           18,000            8,500          19,000
309  Purchase of Furniture and Fittings                       0            5,000           13,500           3,500
313  Purchase of Office tquipment                             0            4,500              500           3,000
TOTAL  CAPITAL FORMATSON                                6,159           27,500          22,500           25,500
Programme 003-Cost Centor 003 TOTAL                   103,080          158,931         151,888          179,832
Programm  003 TOTAL                                   901,309          898,814         970,376        1,044,460
004  Local Government SOSvice Comission
statbLishment (See, Appendix I for broakdown)
001 Local Government Ssrv&ccs Colrt-r:ffi
PERSONAL EMOLUMENTS
001  sa14laisu          .     .     .      .              7S,984          87,%32           89,200          66,424
002  tion-gat%bligh.-d btaff  ;7584.18                                    55,242          54,000          72,606
'urrAl. ;';M,4JtlAI.   .jIt.4NT:.                      iJV, 742        142,774          143,200         159,030



94                                           Anex 8
Page 7 of 18
VOTE 428: bMWSTY OF LOCAL OOVENNMENT-4continued
C-PR0CRAI@S-( Continued I
1089!90                   1990/91                 1991/92
Ac?ua;            Approved         Revised         tstimate
K                 K                K                K
Gaoos AND SERVICES
105  Cleaning Materials             .                         975            3.000            2,SOO            3,500
107  Consumable Store...                                      $64            2,000            2,500            2,500
110  Education Allowance                                   13,267           19,000           14,000           17.000
112  External Travel          ..   ..            (a)            0           18,000           18,000           25,000
113  Extornal Travelling Allowanc..    .           )          896           16,000            9,500           36,000
116  Fuel and Lubricanis                                   16,999           16,000           25,000           25,000
117  Heating and Lighting                                   3,495            S.000            2,500            5,000
llA  Hiring Cosets                                          7,651           11,000           11.000           11,000
119  Hospi.tl.ty Expensge                                   7,938            9,000           15,000           13,000
121  Hotel Charges                                         13,472           14,000           17,000           19,000
122  Inourance                                                  0              170               70              170
123  Internal Training.                                         0                0                0            4,000
124  Leave Grant, Transfer aDinturbance Allowance*          1,927            5,000            4,000            5,500
128  Maintenancn oat  uilding.    .              (a)            0                0                0           24,000
131  Maintenance of Motor Vehicles..                       13,995           16,000           18,000           30,395
137  Postage and Postal Charge-                                 0               0OO             120              100
138  Printing Costs                                           261              400              250              400
140  PublicatLon and Advertising                           11,964           15,000           24,000           22,000
141  Public Transport                                      10,792           17,000           19.000           20,000
146  Stationery                                            17,758           20,000           29,653           24,000
147  Subeietonce Allowanco                                  5,850            9,000            7,500           10,000
148  Telephone Chargee..                                   13,928           16,000           15,700           18,000
150  Traimeport  Claims..                                   6,361           13,000            7,000            8,000
152  Uniform and Protective Clothing                        3,650            3,500            3,500            3,500
153  Water and Sanitation                                   1,406            2,500            2,000            2,SOO
TOTAL  GOODS ANO SERVIctS                               153,669          230,670          247,793          329,565
CAPITAL FORMATION
309  Purchase of Furniture and Fittings                     1.527            5,500            5,500            5,000
312  Purchase of New Bicyclx               ..                 383                0                0                0
TOTAL  CAPITAL FORMATION                                  1,91:               00 50 5,500                    5,000
Prograe 004-Coset Center 001 TOTAL                      286,321          378,944          396,493          493,595
ProgarMe 004 TOTAL,                                     286,321          378,944          396,493          493,595
NOTZS-(a) Provision reserved.
(b) No excess expenditure ay be Incurred against any Sue-item without prior Treasury Authority.
X.-ihtff 6recudown-1991-92
Class
Pro-
lesesonal
and
Supet- AdainLe-                         Secre-               Technical Sub-
scale  treaive   *xecutive Technical toeial    Clerical  Assistant oedinate   TOTAL
001 AweinLstration t Goneral   6            4          3     *   1          10        12        -           1O        46
002 L&cal Authority 8ervice        16      24         92         38          S        69         26         S         275
003 Sports                         3        4          2         11          4         6          4         8         42
004 Local Government service
ComisiLon                     2         -          S                    4          6          -         6         23
Total                   29      32         102        50     --       9J              30         29        38



95                                          Anne 8
Page 8 of 18
VOTI03: MINISTRY OF LCCAL GOVUNMENT-(continuee
c-n~sJqz-  cnifud 3                                              
1989/90                     1990/91                 1991/92
Actual           Appr*v%0         Revised         ErLmeat-
_                                K                K
1Z.-o-cnils of Sub-itee 201-Grcnts
002 LOCaL Authorities Services
oo0  Grants to DstCrict Councils                     966,667          627,618         823,618        1,696,554
002  Contributions, Rate, service Charges            856,667          500,000        s5o0ooo           s00,C10
003  ALlocation of Rates                             970,049          719,292          719,292         949,56
o00  Audit Fees                                       60,000           40,000           40,000          40,000
006  Local ruthodlty Health Sorvices                       0                0                0         551,137
Programme 002 Total Grants                   2,8S3,383        1,886,910        2,082,910        3,737,247
003 Sports
001  Sports Grants to District and Town Councils   45,396              64,000           64,000          74,250
Programme 003 Total Orants                      45,398           64,000           64,000           74,250
IIr.-Dta.ils of Sub-itet 202-Subecciptions
003 Sports
0O1  AfilLation Fees to lone Vi                       13,992           12,000           12,000          30,000
002  SAffiliatJon Fees to S.C.S.A.                    10,000            8,000           26,000          10,000
Programe 003 Total Subecriptions                23,997           20,000           38,000           40,OOC
TA ASURY #MIRA4DU#.
The Ministry of Local Goverment ham three divisions, a Local authority Service OLvision, a Local
Government Services Commission  and a Sports Division.  STh  Local Authority Service Division  acts as both an
advisory and inspecting body. It advises the management of authorities on a range of professional, technical,
and administrative matters; fonitors and audits authority expenditure, controlling any loans; and undertakes
periodic  checks and  reviews  on the  legality, effLcacy  and  efficiency of  Authority actions.   The  Local
Goverr_-it Service Com,ission has the objective of designing standard terms of service for local authority
personnel, and recruiting personnel for the service. The Sports division is responxible foe the development.
control and policy coordination of sports throughout Malawi.
The revised 1990/91 budget remains as approved and the budget for 1991/92 is K7,874,777.



96                                                  Annex 8
Page. 9 of 18
HEAD 234-Ministr of Local Govemment
Conaoulng Ofsom: sweuM for Loeui aovernment
All Pfogrmme
P!e     4 t                      DETAILS                          TOTAL ESTtifAUT    EXP NIE          REV!SW       M ESTUET! 1991/92
V. '17                                                C~~~~~              ~~~~~OSST.  31-1-  Elo/E 8 1
______________________ _____ _____   K K                                                     ___   K_
PART TWO
001            A1MINISTRATIWO A1W SNERAL
060      Stret Lighting City of Lilonge
30   Purchase of Equipmnt and Plant..           ..            3.192.000      1.17.000O   2.015.000                 0              0
TMTAL Stret Lig1ting City of Lilonw
..  .............................. 3,3192,0QO                       1.177.000      2,01S,000                
061      Stret Lighting City of  liantyre
007  T. . .ary E_o3n                 ..         ..                8,0QO          8.000              0              0              0
306  PurcHse of Equiwnt and Plant..                           1.165.005      1.165.005              0              0              0
TOTAL Street Lighting City of Blantye1
1,1m1,00       1.173.00S             O              O              a
062      Z7a Pradac Market I.ml. nt
106  Ossigfi an srwuisin            ..          ..              235.00               0        235.000              0              0
303  Co.v..tructi'n Of Buidins                  ..              211,500              0        211.500              0              0
TtlTA. Za   Pro~ace ^*iKet Ir        t              ~4446.50            -                446,500              0              0
WNINNNIUMM                                               4.8U .,s6    2.350,005   2.461.5C0                   0              0
ToTrL PA A T   T W                                       4.8*u.sos      2.350,005      2.461.SO0              0              0
aW5tlS$21T101 A *1X                          4.8U,505        2.350.005      2,461.500             0              0
TOTAL Ministry of Local Go0.w,mt                         4.811.505  *   2.350.005      2.461.500              0 



I. City of SSaaowte
-(1*1 caseteekt 26 'in)
Lamaeb%ot     U601.OS   a   36      2.961    21.16    2.161    21.96   26611    2.96     2.961    21.6     2U       2.1.11
WI,"= 6KJ                                -..     Aelmet-i            --------                         Proeeeted3
P1 96-8   l996-69   966-90  1990-9   166-92  192-a   1999-94  1694-96  .96-96  1996.9?  1997-oS  1996-9   1969-299
3605E.              ASK601106
14e1l OrasIb %te
6...,' Sat..              a   P.A.      -       -        -      12,000 U.=.*2.  1276.M5 14470.8 15,1119.6 35,968.5  16,751.2 17,516.6 10.468.21.91
Floe & Charm              a   P.A.      -       -               766.0  6.072.4  8,476.0   669".6  4994.6  96012.1 10.$02.  106017.6  11.966.7 21.9n0.
Spedi bd.-                                       -               1,660.0
bramnmat burt            81  P.A.       -       -         -       19.0   2108.9    217.2    226.1    29.16  251.4    164.0    m1.2    291.1    on6.
Capital basipte-                                                 1.176.0
Towale                                           -              29,01.0 21.404.8 69474.  2.696.2 2G.M7.1 69,01.0 27,817.6 2a.m.? 20.117.9  m1.ine
CIty IT....,.             a   P.A.      -                -       226.0".  142.10.   2.9962  2,726.6  2.673.6  2,017.1  8,166.0  3.9264  8.492.?  8.667.8
TOM CSeqt                 a   P.A.      -       -        -      1,710.0       . 2,65.    96.6  8,187'.2  2264.0  2.486.?  8.681.?  861.13  4.0080  4,204.1
261110111          a   P'.A.              -                ,2.0.  1.917.3  2.016.2  1.1.118.0  1*gt1.g  1,aao6  2.4v7.0  21669.4  2,6197..  1.62.7
CI...aI,.                U   P'.A.      -       -        -       1,667.0  1.M6.4  11,066.4  1,161.8  2.-1,r.4  2.U12.6  2.102.0  2,627.1  1,7M.4  2696.8
Clip belmeer              a   P'.A.     -       -        -      4.810.0  46019.8  5.m8.5  5.318.6  S5.81.2  5.9014   0.1S1.0  6.416.6  6.761.5  7110.6
Parkes & SAeratlem        M   P'.A.     -                        I. 166.0  179".8  1,076.11  21612.1  1,261.1  2,408.0  2,92.1  2.60.4  2,766.0  2,924.8
sbeatI.a                  U   P'.A.             -        -        248.0   6961.3   271.2      9460   299.    211.0    929.?   849.1.   S92.        =I.5
tam.. Omiga               a   P'.A.     -       -               170.0  2,6861.0   976.6  8,169.6  S,2S1.9  8,448.0  2,616.2  8,799.2  8.900.1  4,166.6
San.Cans. ta Capital      a   P'.A.     -       -        -        200.0   210.0   220.6   691.5    248.1   265.8   268.0   691.4   265.5    810.6
commtIapame               a   P.A.      -        -       -        400.0   420.0   441.0   4681.1   4661.2    610.6    60.0    612.8   8911.0    660.5
Towale                                                          1,7016.0 19,72.4 20,722.8 21,749.5  =96.M.  629,978.6 29,17?.? 29,416.5 27,78611.4 26,1481.4
SWL08JOiCIT rnS P1-                               -               4,270.0  1,676.6  1,6.7.  1.548.?  3,91.2  2,6011.2  2,140.1  2.247.1  21,169.6  2,477.5
~2ACA1AI NJr/0SICIT                      -              (6110.0) (1,640.)  (162.2); 1867.6&  8,441.8  626.4  7,426.7  9,666.  116s2.9 14,172.4 1614.9m
vim ma&WF
* Additional Recmu-                                -        -          0.0      0.0    120.0   290.0   20.0   860.0   420.0   490.0   490.0   460.0
* AdditIemS Sawmera Iapeadlftae                                        0.0     0.0    66.0    160.0   69.0   200.0   86.0   420.0   420.0    420.0
3MU5PE0Wc    FM PT mLJ-                           -        -      4,170.   1,7.6.  1,665.?  1,89.7  1,9611.2  1,0131.2  2,13.1  12.17.1  S,1.M6  2,547.5
~2ALIQA1I W SJIOWICT                     -        -      (,1.)(2,640.0)  (168.2) 1,9.6W  2,6.8 WI      ,662.4  7,620.7  9.in.   I21.  1464.4 17,064.9
CAIHFVA in *12.751
Cite at Simatere                                          -  (~~~~~~~~~Careant M9 p000 ) -
burnable latlatIm Sate:       ~~~~~9.08  6.0K   8.01     6.08     6.08     5.08     5.08    3.01    5.08
0.uaale Priea ladems           100      109      ass      12       W2       124      14       147      M5       166
I-    Aeteel            1 I                           -    "rOect"d              -.----------
Uormea af Saud.:.                    FT 1W-U   1996-6   1996-90  130-91  1991-92  199-96  169-9   1994-96  1696-    1966-97  19I7-96  29669   1999-200 
SINiSjOWICltF NFT  aLJ                          -        -      4,270.0  1,627.8  1,96.0  I,6.7.  2,069.2  2,171.0  2,626.1  2,423.0  2,661.0  2.674.6      S
1*3lli LO   - per Cost fleelap b.J-                             0.0      0.0   290.7  1,048.4  2,01M.1  8,142.8  *.,71$0.6 19.9  2,186.9        0.0
On 15AL.                                     gm       so       O    4,2710.0  1,92.6  2,207.6  8,040.1  4,072.8  8,424.2  5.6.   '01.9  4,139.   2,674.5 
AC4=UUM1S OF A2SEM so per Cuat, Neaol.6 loj  0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   290.7  1,048.4  2,028.1  2,242.5  8,700.6  ,196.9  2,166.6       0.         I0
OUT WM          MPA                          0.0      0.0      0.0     th.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   76.6   76.6        76.
DETT                           00       00        .00.0       0.0          22.5   178.6   446.5   $93.8  1           I0.   170.2  1,89.2  1,7921.7
US TOTALS                                    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   213.2  1,220.2  2,486.?  4,125.8  5,062.4  6,689.6  4,66119.5  2,678.2
FUNW OF ROM                                  M        gm       EM   4,270.0  1,2.M.   1,914.5  1,619.9  1,318.7  1,2616.4   906.8   (57.7)  (126.?)    We.



STAISUW OF AFFAIn
C 191 constant 0 8000) -
Ebehag Rat.:      USSlOS   a   00      2961    2.96     2.960   f.  2.00  1.0     2W0      2.010   !".96    2.00    21.1
91108    JEVs                            9 -~ Act-I --I  I                                 -       Projo.ebd                                          I
F l 0-U  11100-0  19S9-9   1990-9   1001-ft  1900-0   1996-9"  :1004-116  1016-00190 19 1997-911  1900-99  1999-100
36~~~          Mmmi Cerook Rat
btmwe Rate.              U   P.A.      -       -                .700.0  9,137.1  9,894.0 10.078.? 10877.8 11,100.2 11,001.5 12.244.6 1200618.6 18,499.7
Fee a Core"a             U   P.A.      -       -                ,700.0  2,68811.0  2,976.6  8,125.8  8,261.9  8.446.0  8S10.   S.M9.2  809:4,186.6
buro"t                                     -            -         1.0  2,96811.0  2,96181.0  2,968.0  2,968.0  91,965.0  2,9165.0  2,965.0  2,9681.0  2,985.0
Cove'rnage  Oast                       -       -                  0.0   18.0    02.0    00.0    00.0    00.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0
Taftl.-                                        -              11,400.0 18, 107. 1 18,817.7 18,100.2 18,9106.2 17,890.2 118,08.  190090.6 19091.9  1071111.9
Flesmee                  a   P.A.      -       -        -      2,804.0  2,419.9  2,540.2  2,6617.2  2,900.5  2,940.6  8.067.6  8,242.0  8,400.1  S,874.8
wineS                    M   P.A.      -                -      84818.0  a.ma   ,91.8  4,012.8  4.212.0  4,426.6  4,844.6  4,677.0  5,190.9 
Leads-eag                a   P.A.                                01-   81.0   909.8   964.6  1,091.8  1,061.6  1,106.8  1,180.8  1,228.8  1,279.5  8
"Samt                    an  P.A.      -       -        -      1,8646.0  1,644.8  1,726.86  1,812.68 ,0.   1,996.7  2,096.6  2,108.8  2,813.    "-.4
Msmti.m                 as  P.A.                                I - 18.0   140.7   14?.?   &".I    162.9   171.0   179.6  1In.6   14. -           9
Lsow Core" i.   P.A.                   -       -        -      1,200.0  12620.0  I,82.0  1,83119.2  1,48611.4  1,6811.6  1,606.1  I.08.8  1,7.9.  1,mW2.
Raw.Coat, to C6it.Iel    o   P.A.      -                -      1,914.0  2,009.7  2,110.2  2,218.7  2,826.8  2,442.0  2,8884.9  2,08.2  2,611.6  2.019.?
Tietal. e                                                     11,480.0 12,0111.8 12.08.8 18,264.6 18,917.8 14,618.4 18,844.1 16,111.8 18,9101.9 17,76.7
WJEIDW=  FM FT                        -        -                 48.0  8,084.6  9,994.1  2,991.4  2,9606.7  2,96151.7  2,9941.7  2,919.8  2,976.1  2,972.5
* AUdlt.moi Sean                         -        -                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0               0p
* 44ddionlem  Raerrrn.t Expenditure      -        -                  0.0      0.0    78.0   lilA      257.0   812.0   820.0   820.0    U.0   820.0
SAMM.WjOWCT NRFT aJ                     -                          48.0  8,004.6  2,918.1  2,919.4  2.781.7  2,678.7  2.662.?  2,689.5  1,686.1  2,652.5
A00861TO  US%LJDBWIf                                              - -    -  -M         0   -0 -a   -M    amv  -on  -M   -
CAWR0W AMLVSSS
-C Carreat W0 -000) 
Domestic i*f 1.51m  Rat.:              9.06    61.06     8.06    8.06     8.06     8.06    8.06     6.06     8.06
boeaU. Price lodes:            100      10N     116      121     127      184      140     14?    1in        i8n
6m.r.., of Fmada:                   Ft 19674   19664   1969-10  199091  199-96  1991-96  199644;  1994-ft  l996-00  1it"4   199-U   96 19      1 999-2000
OLWU6/0WIC FM FT  akJ(im amrret 00        -        -                 48.0  9,3.2  8,80f.2  8,48.6  8.479.7  S.576.2  8,8.M8   ,2.1n.7  4,112.5  4,812.4
FfhS M   LO  -  wa CGas ftw.Img 5/        -                           0.0     0.0   86.6  1,264.2  1,486.1  2,864.?  8,0177.  2.11111.8  1.866114   0.0
-W TWTALS                                    -      an        M      48.0  8,891.2 8S.8.6  4,.W.7  4,96311.7  8,140. 96,917.1  6,76.0  8,.8.0  4,812.4 
Dels"IatIr of Head.:t.
13T14m OF, AUUS a. W  Coat Phaglag bJ     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   584.8  1,264.2  1,484.1  1,864.7  80707.?  2.6368  1,85.1114   0.0              I;"
amy ainVuM  Principal                       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   684.&   684.    8844.5
1.t.,..      18.86  P.A.       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    72.2   242.6   489.1   78161.4  1,200.9  1,494.8  1,614.6  1,824.9
90 Y*ALS                                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   908.8  1,W0.0  1,69.2  8,8.1.  4,278.8  4,997.1  8,64.8  2,199.4
RUW OF rim                                  g        -       Om6    48.0  8,8612.2  8,297.1  ,1.8.8040.5  2,790.0  2.5111.8  1,762.9  1,888.8  2,123.0



tll.  bum lelwil C_wll
5747399W5  F *AM
-  C aw  CAROLa m m 0)
Ebcbin _se:       5u1.00   *   M         2.1        .1      L.W      2.W      2.96      2.       2.1        .      2.W        .
- 1--n.e
FY 117_01  lXnl-f IV9 19        10- 191 19   IM8198% "-n                     IM- 1"849 lff 1   @r       1_0~9   l"osv
AcmI -_
_m'qe Re,.                SS  P.A.       547.1   57s.       u6.4    519.4   597.       67.?    69.1    012.1    72?.?    76.0    801.2    U41.2   40.8
CPI  eIe                   a   P.A.      161.4   211.6        6.6   2351.5    800.1    815.1       .*    617.4   6"4.7        u.0    402.1    422.2    448.6
Fee S Cerge                a   P.A.       6.5    404.5    426.4    426.4    447.7    470.1    496.6    a 1.2    544.2       11.4   659.9    61.1    661.4
Imlre                                      12.8    12.5      11.9     11.9     11.9     11.9      11.9     11.9     11.9      '1.9     11.9     11.9     £1.9
OVOeeAMOb  ..1                            86.0      a.s      47.1     U.2    811a       U.s       U.a    114.l    86.8        s.s i.     .8     1.3       11.8
T16l-                                  1,14.   1,314.4  1,121.8   I,.9   I.812.   1.40.1  1,050.6   11,60    I.M.4  1,704.6  S.M.&   .W. 1,9 2,.M
cmmi oo"m
M, - I'm                                                      _  _   _        _         _        _        _        _         _        _
Semi-de-   -                                                -        -        -        _         _        _        _         _        _- 
lam  *e _e                               -         _        _        _        _         _        _        _        _         _        _- 
be.C. 0. 0SqiSl                         -         -        -        _         -        _        _        _         _        _        _        _         _
S * er.                    UPa.         1,86.7  1.in.    1,406.0  1,494.8  1,657.5  1,614.4  1.6961   1,m.9  10_.9  1,96.8  1,08.4  1,15.4  2,17.6
7.0.1                                  1,60.7   1,26s.1  1,406.0  1,464.8   6,66.6   1,614.4   1,.696    1,719.9  1,60.   1.9.   1,060.4  2,185.4  1,0.6
3.ujF nI    97                            (15t7.0)    59.    (16.6)  (11.5)  (144.7)  (184.6)  (164.6   (1741)  (6.0)  (19.?)  (109.9)  (.6)   (16.8
*D9A1   UIU/SIII(060   (166.)  (6584)  (96.9)  (63.)  (967.) (1.11.1  (1,137.1) (1.618.1) (1.710.) (1.910.5) 0.10.6) (1.89.9
-  - _  - - - -  - -  - - -   
-o                                                                                                                                                                       toer
AddlU_   lPAI,. -                                  -        -          0. 0  I.0  1.0    11.0  6.".    140.0   170.0  t10.0   110.0                      10.0i.
MdUIlk.1 _met bp.mdln21e0-   -                              -          0.0    0.0  1.0 1o1u.0  I .0                 85.    S.0        8.0   26.0  21.0
awunAoFf   *J rrO-G   4                                   N$    (IU.5   (144.7)  (15.3)  (IU.)  (17.<} (111.0)  (If.r)  (10   )  CM7.$)  (CM.)
- - _;_ - - __ - - - - ___--    ---'
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -(Curta  SN '000 }-
& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~emd I,1-                   11 P le: 9Ws.0                        6.06     5.06     5.a       5.06     5.0      5.06     5.6       1.06
de  Pri4)   (Mu9)                         109      110    10 1 l    1o 1U 17       4Q  140       14?I11             16U
Im I::l - I                                                                            7 Pr0e 2e0                     l
6..... .9 Fude                        97 1914   aimSe 1      99   1990-1   iwa-i   aw-o   19-4   199-9   1969   199-9   197-96  1969   199-0
i_sj 1CT   F Ft n       J(I.  Mrre  1 0                          -a    (111.5)  (144.7)  (164.0)  (1661.)  (17.2)  (101.1)  (tU-)   (5.5)   (74-0)   (99.1)
ACS UIAM4   _ w      er Cm 1Ir  bJ                            -      -     .0      0.0 0.0           49.9    1.6    807.4        72.8    87. 25.4            0.0 -
g,e 16116.5                                    m        m        - 4 (18.5)  (151.1)  (164.0)  (186.5P   (14.4)   in.e    164.1 M.?    14M.0                 (I.?)I
8p1 leat. of P..1t
1 -A--                                                             ooeepm 
SM   L1 neMpew Coro  esaiw bj                 0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      49.9    165.5    607.4    872.S    81.6    2.4          0.0 I-
6Om lUVIW   IrIIAL                            0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     74.5     74.5      74.5 
ru1          1.8  P.A.         -        -        -          0.0      0.0       0.0      6.7    JI.9      70.4    120.6    180.6    180.9    170.9
U vSrs s o                                               M                0.0      0.0      0.0      U.7    192.8 6    m.       49.9    607.5    476.7    265
R.  OF PiM  FM _                               -         n              (U6.-)  (57.1)  (14.0)  (196.1)  (I07.1)  (172.0)  (200.7)  (16.)  (n9.4)  (4.0)



TV.  CIdof mas                                                                        Wvv OF Nam
6TATDES OF26 AV
5udae. lbte:      133.00   -   16       R."6     gig      i41    2.e         O.i      2.960    2.116    gig1     2.ig     gig
1-        Mai-               -~..----------Projected                                -
F? 1W-OS   iqgg agt    w-iiai    69t    iSt    94i    95U gSI?M  gu9-U11  199W-it  IS200-0g
Gm,r'. *..5   PA.                        296.0:    430.    199.     111.    611.17    64.?8   6144    ?"'.i    748.6    730.7       U  71.   no0.7    on.7
Comercial                 511  P.A.      asi.o     sgi     a" I.   Mg. 3         87.  83".     416.6    487.4    46.       411.2    306.8   851.7    56.2
Fee & Chmrge              5M  P.A.        78.0    174.1    80.7    882.2    8t.6    867.8    16.7    406.0   tot.2    446.0    46660   462.2   813.3
Internet,                                 11.4     4.4       8.1      8.   .1      8.1      8.1       8.1      8.1      8.1          8.1  8.1  8I .1
0s,erumosi Grout                         86.6      89.0     89.0     89.0    89.0    89.0    819.0       89.0     89.0     89.0    89.0       89.0    89.0
Totlo                                    648.6     il VY120.   1.817.7  1,861.4  1,446.4  1.518.?  1562.6  I.M.1  I.Ms.6  I.aw.0  1,626.7  9.in.9
Wurk., & lrmeap.t                                                            ; 6.  .  3.  9.  16.1    ANt.   4186.6    431.7    M0.$    631.1    557.7   166.5  1.
P41C shuSib               111.4                    8.9.     67.4     74.2    77.6    61.6       W1.6    9O.1    i4.6        ".4    104.8    109.6    138.0
C....I.1   oewekopmt      56             3110      49.2     31.6     37.8     71.0    74.0      73.8     22.2    41.8      60.6     96.2      WI6    114.6
"imaSIM                   so              11.9     18.8     18.0     14.8    15.0      1.8.     16.3     17.4     18.8     16.2    20.2       21.2     22.2
Cealr.l A Omrel           so             m.6 26.6          8944 .3    484.8    4153.0    4786.    802.7    521.0    384.8    6.0    611.1    641.6   57.7
Commeruial                M              170.4    07.0    18.4    149.0    116.4    164.2    112.4    181.i    I"o.&    166.        m".6    Z0.1   23.1
Laee Cherges,             M              44.0      47.?    48.0      57.1,    56.6     62.9     66.1     69.4     72.6     72.8      80.8     84.8    11.6
ftw.CmS. to aspital       a               11.6     83.0    1o. 1     19.1     20.0     21.1     22.1     28.2    24.4    26.6        26.6     26.2    29.6
lue.w glad,*                             -       --        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -                 --
Total.                         m.3~~~~~~~~~~~021  tIO0  1.100.6  1.211.8  1.212.4  1.M8.1  1,402.0  1,476.0  1,560.6  1,624.0  1.706.2  1I76.4  1,1.0.
SNU3IWICI1 PFM Ft                       15.0     61.1,   100.6    106.6   109.0    112.4    118.9    116.6    12.4    12.8    181.3   1I6.9    141.0
AOIKLA1O 11MA.jWICT               67.6    110.6    194.0    29.0    400.6   80n.6    60.2    736.0    667.#    t1.0  1,103.6  1.24059  1.2?3.6  1.617.5
g-a am              n                                                                                                
AdditionalI lm.m                         -        -        -00                 00       0.0     50.0     50.0     50.0      50.0    80.0      50.0    50.0
Md3Ias.8l Rocarremb Eaprndi lure                                      0.0      .0.0    50.0    400.0    400.0    450.0    600.0    550.0    600.0   600.0
.us,mmcn ~~M FT .kJ                      M        M         -n    106.9   109.0    82.4   (23. 1)  (230.4)  (278.6)  (SM.6)  (866.2)  (418.-7)  (409.0)
811FUSS~J/aBICIT                     112.0      am       a         M       Be       gS        M        M        out      gm        so      OM
CASH1.06 AMUI.SIS
- C Carret 8 1 000 ) 
Domestic Inflation Rate;                 6.06     6.06      5.06     5.01     5.06     5.06     5.05     8.01     5.06
Dohmestic  Price lade.:         no       a0e       11      121       121      mm4      140      147      15       183
5-    Actual --I 1-                         ------  lreoected
Sources of Fee.:                      P7 167-66  166-89  1969-60  1916091  1661-62  1662-68  1998-94  19904-91  1666-U   1466-67  1997-66  Io-1696616-0
9MM)DOWIT FOR PT  aJ(la carrat H6Q             M       us        M      10.3   138.8    Y2.1   (264.0)  (292.8)  (9.)(452.6)  (548.)  (640.6)  (6615.0)                   ID
UIICm  HRg L8MI ao per Coet Uhuelas bJ      -        -                   0.0      0.0      W9I    263.7    606.3    468.4    408.6    27.2    102.6        0.0           3
VA T878L5                                      M       us        M5    106.6    l18.6    111.6    (26.4)   218.0      U.S    (49.1)  (266.6)  (6Wi)  (666.0)
Applicatio of Fuds                      
O0DITU  F A126  as per Ceet Pheoleg b_J  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     89.9    215.7    503.6    465.4    408.2   276.2    102.6        0.0
!E umvWK    nmucw*i                         0.0       0.0      *.0W     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    102.6    102.3    102.6                M
999=         181.111 P.A.     -         -        -0.0               0.0      8.4      40.8    126.7    171.5    206.0   249.7    249.7    218.8             co C
VA TOTAW.                                      M       us       an       0.0      0.0     48.2    296.0    616.2    687.0    629.6    62.7    4155.2    316.6
FLAW GF -U   FR FT                             M       uso      an      106.6    13.8.     U.7   (124.8)  (402.2)  (541.4)  (872. 9)  (296.5)  (668.1) (1.M0.4)



V.  Taw of Ladies..                                                                 Tom OF UJOOENA
STATSUffS OF ADFAVI
C1991 caaImat K -000)
Sadxrnaga Rate:    16100O    *   3K      2.961    2.96     2.961    2.96     2.96     2.96     2.96      2.964    2.961    2.96
Wrflw MODJrt:
I---        Actual ----I  I-------------                       Prioected          --
F?  MAN-8   1966-69  1969-90  I9909   1991-92  1992-92  1993-94  1994-9   19969   1"96-97  1997-116   MS9-99  I999-2000
Omer's sao 6(9~8                                            72.2    64.0    216.0    226.6    23.1    290.0    26.5    275.7    269.6    803.9    319.1
Comerclol                 a3 (9"I)           -             -         5.5    110.2    1310.7    148.6    180.?    116.8    19.2    174.5    11.2    192.4
Fo A Chars"               8  ("61"4      29 .      668.8    45.6     11.0    71.6      26.7     26.0    29.4      80.9      82.4     84.0     86.7     By.$
Zatoreat                                  9.0      0.1       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7
bagroaat armst                           25.0      25.0     891.9    2.6.    178.6     29.8     29.6    29.6      29.3      29.6    29.6      29.6     29.0
TotleS                                    84.6     68.4    150.4    187.0    896.8    420.7    440.2    460.7    482.2    804.8   GM.        50.4    W79.8
Vackas b TreeApet         an cmw94)        1.9      1.2     11.9      9.0   .275.6    M7O.   1661.0    197 .a    207.2    217.6   92M.5    2391.9    231.9
PhIli S.Hmitla            a  (96a4        6.4       6.6     21.0     15.2     20.1     82.0     66.6    85.6      87.1      36.9     40.19    42.91    45.1
CinaaIt1 oavolepmab       a  p98/9)        1.8      2.2      4.1     81.2    26.6      29.5     80.9     82.S     84.1      35.8     ".       89.5     41.4
WecaSim-                                          -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        --                         -
C.sotra  & Omag,Sa        U  (961W)    66.8        44.5     94.4    116.2    106.6    114.0    119.7    123.a    181.9    136.5    145 .4    1821.7    180.4
Camorcial                 a    ., I)   -                     0.6    69.7      69.7      4.2     96.9    1-06.     109.0   114.5    120.2    126.2    112.6
Laws, Geree-                                               -          0.7    19.      200.0    2.0    S00.0    800.        800.0     00.0    800.0    800.0
nowa,Cst. be Cota                           .6                                                                                                 
Tftala                                   51.6      54.    186.8   289.9    647.7    64.6    721.1    796.6    619.8    64.8    M7.6    901.2    981.8
SWUSAjWIT FM  FT8.2                                  8.7      20.2   (68.0)   (62.4)  (292.0)  (no0.9)  (833.19)  (887.2)  (340.6)  (844.1)  (3476)  (851.7)
A0086AA1  UtMjaM/Mci               0.0      8.2      11.9     32.1   (80.9)  (106.2)  (Ili1.2)  (612. 1)  (948.0) (1.268.2) (1.62.7) (1.967.6) (2.818.7) (2.W11.4)
A844111mg Ilcme                                                       0.0      0.0      6.0     15.0    18.0      18.0     15.0      18.0    15.0      18.0
Additlet Ramrr.st Eagpwdlturo                                         0.0      0.0      6.0     18.0    20.0    80.0       60.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
UN.L5IDEWICIT FM FT ikj                     so       Be         -     (68.0)   (52.4)  (2M.0)   (290.9)  (31M.)   (332.2)  (6.)(404.1)  (407.0)  (411.7)
~~868AT00 U~~~A5j0WlC1T ~0.0       MO       M                   O       M         O       MO       MO       MOE-     MO     EMO         -       M
CASHi.Wk .NeLYSIS
- (Corrast M OC OOO)-
fiumell.  isficnas Rates                 9.03     6.06      8.06     5.06     6.06     5.05     5.06     1.06     5.016
Osmorntic Pri*Ice ld..          100      109       116      121      127     1to       140      147      1n       16n
9-- Actual -I   I--                                            Projectd                ~- .-                        I
lwerce. of Puads:                    PT 1967-60  1966-69  169-90  190,91  199-9   199298  I199-01  1996-96  1996-964  1,           1997-9   196-9   19962000
S.OrLMjW1CIT FM PT  a_/(is carrest IO         M        MO       MO      (.0   (67.1)  (236.4)  (840.6)  (031.3)  (471.0)  (8o..S)  (595.9)  (6315)  (86.41)
NOW  A  - LBOS ae pr Coat Ftai.g bj         -        -                   0.0      0.0      0.0     86.7    266.6      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0          6
0110 =Ms                                      on       -M       em     (851.0)   (57.1)  (26.4)  (26.1)  (196.9)  (471.0)  (641.5)  (59.9)  (681.)  (6694)
AppSliction of Fuadat
10C711T86 GP ASI179 a. po Coat Ninmelee 6     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     66.7    M.e        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0           I
OW6 IIIIIIM    MDINIPI6.                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     14.7     14.7    14.7
DIIT         la18.16 P.A.     -                  -0.0               0.0      0.0       7.7     69.6    69.6    89.6       87.6    86.7    68.7
PA TIIrA.I                                    M        M        Mof      0.0      0.0      0.0     64.2    26.5    69.6    W9 a         52.1     90.3    45.4
NLW OFP HIS  FM FT                            -        MO        M     (613.0)   (6T. 1)  (23.4)  (80.4)  (47.4)  (610.7)  (161.1)  (646.21)  (681.6)  (717.6)



VI.  16    District Camel I                                                   uro*u HURICT aC1nL
SyAlmui OF WFffAI
-  C I m  Cm&  s 'gm0) -
Ebsoe. 169.       161.00   -   I6      2 2.9   2.91    2.LW      2.9     2.       2.91    2.9       2.9     L.       29
Ff 1017-6t  *19664   1969-9   190-1  1"91-   1"9-U   1911-94  11W-IS  199-91   Mf-97  1697-6  1991-99  1909-2M0
F.. a 0msea              U               6.?    2.2    Jl.2   441.6    41.1   437.1   511.8   137.0   56.9    6.1   M2.?    59.3                M.4
laterook                                4.4      4.4      4.3     4.6      4.8     4.3      4.3      4.3      4.8      4.3     4.3      4.3      4.S
onvmt m   0mu4                         2W.3    27.3      U..2    21.3    27.5    21.3    2T.J    27.1   27.3    21.3           .1.    21.3    21.D
T70l-                                  m1.a 1    o.$   416.7   473.4   49.5   516.7   543.1         6.?    3.5    6.?   656.a    94.4   717.0
Ih9.ugi  _ rm            6             -         1.1      1.9      2.0     2.1      1.2      2.3     2.5      2.6      2.7     2.6      3.0      3.1
Wok s  Ta empt                          31.2    3.0      6.9      6.0     6.2      9.7    46.4    6l6.3   161.3   113.9   111.6   12.6   231.
1ublic Kitl6                           67.6    00.6   111.6   11T.4  1i2.3   129.4   11.9   142.7   141.6   157.    166.2   173.4    1.1
Cimitp D      m          U             36.6    21.4    36.4       U.2    40.1    41.1    44.2    41.4    46.7         U.2     U.?      U.4      3.2
Win9-..                                  1.3     1.9      1.6      1.7     1.7      1.3      1.9     2.0      2.1      2.2     2.3      2.4      a a
C_.t1 a 3m.,1            U             10.0   117.7   16.    170.9   119.4   18.4   197.6    27.7    2.1   221.0   240.4   26.4   26.1
L*s                      U              3.6      3.1      2.3      2.6     2.6      2.9      3.1     3.2      S.4      3.5     3.7      3.9      4.1
T.0.l5                                 m.a   .401.1   367.9   417.7   43.6    40.6    4.0   307.6    3.2    59.a    867.6   617.2   666.1
a.WUMPWICIT 59 PF                        (5.69    3.2    20.3      8.7      U.9      8.2    86.3    40.9    62.3        ".9     6.3    67.2       ".0
A           U W                 -7    (.? )   (16.5)        4.     8.0   116      . 173       4.    29 .4   367      . 7 431.7    47.1    64.    m.S
UdI6nS lses                            -       -        -         0.0      0.0    10.0    10.0    13.0    22.0    20.0        2.0    10.0    20.0
Aidiobin  _uerrt Exp.mdkce             -       -        -         0.0      0.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    90.0    20.0         2.0    20.0              o
mwuu       u - P1 t M    .1 1j                              M      8.7      U.9    46.2    46.5       U.9    31.3       3.9      6.5    67.2     ".0
AOMAOSWOUAI /009                -.7  1         4El           1                                                                                     tonl   Mt   M  OR1
368.W  MU.W1
-     ( rM9 K4 'tO0 )-
ietcInflation 160.:                 9.36    6.66     5.36     5.36    3.36     6.36     5.36    6.36     5.36
Dang.c PtIe e                  100     106      116      121     127      1n       140      147     in      1i
I -  Ati- I                       t-                          Pvjec                                             I
am _ . . at 1usd                    P1 196  198   16-9   190-91  1-9   Jl-    193-4   1994-9   19169   199-97  I"7-   199-9  1906-210
_UWIJMIWIm  M9  t J(         iamIc cw     16Q -m     - 1             U.7    42.0      U.6    110.0    71.2    66.4    69.?    96.6   104.0    12.1
tun _  LMsm _e  C.. .to Sn                -        -       -          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   472.9      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
JJ  AS                                      M4       M6       M      86.7    62.0     U.$   130.0    14.1       3.4       1.?      1.6   106.0   11U2.
ApplctSeionmf PWI.:…
A f1Sl V MOM as pew C_s P550kg bJ           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   472        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
O67 3V343  6611PM                           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    22.6     29.6    22.0
_UlT         16.11 P.A.      -        -       -          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     a.6     u.o      3.6    60.7    51.1   5*4.a
VA13AL8                                     M6      Be6               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    M6.$    31.6      3.6    64.3    61.1    11.9
M68  7~    PI.    M                            M6      M6       5.7    62.0    66.6    60.0       7.8    19.5    22.9    12.3    22.9    33.1                  o



VIZ.  IUL.A.ISM *9FCOmme.-                                                          .MUV 0Dun""  IcILm
wrmw Frajws              u*in6. Rat.:     151.011  * U          LW294    S."5    LW.       241W     2.410    2.W1     2 1.99   l        S."      2W1
1---  Act.S -           1 I--                                  PrmoJcte  -                                      -
Pt IW1740, 1W3-6941   10119-Is  196041  1191-92  111911-  1968-4   1W4-63  198-W   1966-9   1991-4   j994   16-2aO
C.sMIuI         U             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46. U. 813    8.         .7     8.       8.8      4.       4.4      48       47.      8o.2    St.
A. £  ereee                                     ::5.1 39.  196.6    2,17.6 3.5     169       5.       34.8      7.      2,91.9  J062    361.s   w67.
later*"                               S~~~La  .0  a.e      .0      8.:      8.0      8..        .      8.0       .         .       .        .
86.4     86.4     76.6     8.4    86.4    86.4        86.4     8*.4    86.04    420.4     480.4       40.   8.
7.9.5.                                   M6.7    2111.8    W1A.   26.0   83.3         MA.    854.7    869.2   864.5   8610.6    897.        415.1   4231.7
IwbIm a   ecee86                          0.       0.0      I.2      1.2      1.8      1.4      18        1.       16      17        16       19      10
PAtS. A nlmue             U               6.      1.       10.9    36.0    "5.I    14.1        954       5.         .          19.    .     8I. 04.
P-Ijg   move5o5 onU,9VP7                          97.8    39.0    13.       2861.7    1045.    163.9    13.36   1630    17.        163.     16.      04.9
~~I9   SsweI93...  U    ~~~~~~~~~95.3   95.4     81.3    831.1    M48       6.A6.              99      4.       447.0    i6.1    86.3    81.0
E&A"mnU-                                           0.        .        .      06.8      8.8      8.6      8.6      4. 4.*  4.0      40.4     4.7      41.9
~~wsimS  U              41.1     63.9    63.7      8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.3  WA.    87.  89.7  41.7    46.9    86.0  ".8    80.7    63.8
Sam.  mrgms   -U               9.~~~~~~~~~~67  7.6  7.1    8.7      0.4      6.1      5.3      8.5      8.1      4.9      4.7      4.8      4.2
7.9.1.                       ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~116.9    173.4  MA3.  64.7   M7.?    M3.7   4103.8    4113.4    4491.8   471.2    494.8   826.8    5441.0
inaruApwxir 39 PI                     (18.11)    (4.9-"    .) (97         6.) (6.) (89                7.) (47    (40.6)   (60    154    108
33868A19 SU86UUnUWKI              8.       6.) (30    11.)(7.)(18                        4)(154    478              18    639    (39.28)  (823.2)  (148.4)
vm-   -                                                - - - -                                   -(,-S)           -(O-"- -
AddlIlmI Jansen                                  -                   0.0      0.0     10.0     60.0    95.0    95.0    95.0        10.0    13.0    95.
UditImI bine.mt ~~~~~~~~~.adI9me.  -  -  - ~~~~~~~0.0        0.0    30.0      10.9    10.0    10.0    30.0        10.0    10.0    10.0
eJiruW1CIT  M Pt  i-                                 3                5.) (41) (39               6.) (92    (74.7)   (60.6) (3.) (                      O.                       s
- (Carr..l OK 000o) -
Small. 1.9 IoU.. ~~~~~~~~I.    0~.06    SAl5    5.01      8.01     506      8.06     5.059    8.05     8.0
RameeSle Prig. laMu:  160      109~    ~~~~ tie  11        2       184      186      147      18       i16
6...... .8 Find.:          WV 1107-63  IWS-09W'   1W9-10  1910-91  119143  196-IS 13-41949    95 19096-071997-_                   939916-0
UJS~~~IC11~~     39 Fl   J(me moormt U)                      3     697    (69.)   (79.6)   (77.8)   (6.1   (105.0)  (118.2)  (123.1)-  (144.)  (188.)
L   - pc 64.9 I9.S.e bJ  -   -    -         ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~~0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    294.7  0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
33ThAL8                                                              (39.1)   (99       7.) (78           0.      100    182    131    146    136
Awl mII at Paudas
11flUM  W5 863 so W  Came fS.el  bJ         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    134.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3llll UI       301P.               a         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     14.7    14.7    14.7
VA  RAS    I31111       3.63 PA.        -        -        -0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0    69.0    89.0       6.   8.6          86 .3    1111                    t
U lUTAS                    33                        ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~~~       ~~~~~0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    8314.8  We.    69.0    63.8    60.5    86.4
RN IF NEWS M733                                        -(5.7                     99    (79.6)   (77.8    176)(6.)  (18.6)  (30.0)  (16.3  (311.)                                C
- -   - - - -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~coC



Will.   WimDV  TOM  cuUCIL                                                           W.MI4 TOWN CW.CIL
STATBOI1 OF ASPAW
-     16 constant   161 CO) 
Eacbaa9 bt.o:      USSI.00   -   16      2.96     2.96     2.96      2.96     2.96     2.96     2.96      2.96     2.96     2.96
--Actual-               ---                     -          Projected --- ---------- --
11CMIL      ASKWF  1078   16669199.W    99-1 191-12  1992-49  1998-9   1994-96  1996-9   199-97  1997-98  199-"9  19992000
Awini Coepowbd
34*..                     55              58.0     60.8      64.2     79.7     6a.6     07.6      92.2     96.     101.7    106.7    112.1    117.7    126.6
Cingrelso                 as              79.2    119.5    12.8    160.5    166.5    177.0    18.6    198.1    204.9    216.1    225.9    267.2    249.0
Fee a Ohmsar.6                           114.6    168.7    191.8    217.6      =.S    269.9    251.9    264.5    277.7    291.6    306.2    821.5    337.6
inteinet                                  19.4      2.4      18.5     18.5     18.5     18.5     18.5      18.8     18.5     18.5     18.5     18.5      18.5
34,era.gt Gam*                            10.9      10.9     27.6     10.9     10.9     10.9      10.9     10.9     10.9     10.9     10.9      10.9     10.9
Tftal.                                   217.1      56.61   4N.8    402.2   8106.1    929.1    554.8    860.        061.7    68.9    666.      700.     734.6
WorksA T Ireaqrt                          70.1     90.4      62.5     66.6     90.9     95.5    100.8    105.8    110.5    116.1    121.9    126.0   1I4.
Puibl Is NibUsf           660.6                    60.8      69.4     12.9     76.6     60.4     64.4      66.6     98.1     97.7    102.6    10.?    118.1
cuinaltw ooelopnmtk       a6              12.9      18.0     18.9     19.6     26.6     21.      28.0      26.1     26.8     26.6     27.9     29.8      80.6
Cust,al A O.Aera          a6              11.2    815.1      90.2     94.7     99.     104.4    109.6    118.1    120.9    126.9    138.8    189.9    146.9
C ar.im                    a6             70.4    116.7   I1.4.5    180.7    187.      144.      151.8    186.9    146.61   175.2    M6.$    198.1    20.0
"memo. Cmotributk         6               34.1     30.0    25.0       g6.*     27.6     26.9     80.4      81.9     811.6    86.2     86.9      We.    40.7
W~ ter  uk.6                               1.1       1.0      2.1      2.2      2.0      2.4      2.5       2.7      2.6      2.9      8.1      8.2       8.4
Totaa                                    800.     816.16   412.6    48.1    454.9    477.6    501.5    826.        82.      560.     609.     60.       672.1
o.3w WICIToq     FM v                      (5.-5)  '(29.7)    18.7      49.0     60.21    51.5     92.6     64.8      55.8     57.8     80.0     60.7     62.5
AC86LA1M W I~SUWICT                66.7     45.1     15.6     29.8      76.2    126.4    179.9     n.      267.0    841.      400. 1    459.1    51.      62.8
0  0~~~~~
AddftIonl Eastrrnmt Eanlue--00                                                   .       00      8.         50       50      7.        50      7.        75.0             o
61wjOWBmrCX  Fat 7 aJ                        an        -        -       49.0    60.2      41.5     82.6     44.8      65.6     67.8     69.0    70.7      72.5
AC.6SA166 SiNAUjDWIC                6.   -a           8   -M   -M    -m                     -   -;- --                                    E-  -0            M
CA11RM ANALYSIS
--  Current MI '000 ) -
Doumeetl I.E 1.61. 34*.:                  9.01     6.05      .0  5.0    1 .    5.O5     5.05     5.05     5.O5    51.05
NismetIca Price Indem:           100      109      116      121       12       la4      140      147      185       1"
I -~ Actual  -          j 1-                       --- -----  Projected -  -------------I
Soute.. of Fuwd.:                     FE  W-O    1-"4   18969.    1990-9   199-9   199-98  199-94  1994-96  199-6   1996-97  1997-90  199-99  1999-2000
SVJV1Sj0BWI     NE FE  oJQ* currnto H6Q                 an       go      49.0     64.7      47.9     89.      86.      66.0      94.6    101.7    109.5    117.9
PSAMI .F. LOME a. per Coat Phaelep bj        -        -        -0.0                0.0       0.0    621.       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
U 7114.                                       M        M                49.0     54.7     47.9    W6.7      86.4      815.0    94.6    101.7    109.5    117.9            9
ASJIS1VI OF AUU  a. per Coa tAmlraei l,j       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    627.9      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
0551   VIws    MUIcIPA                         0.6      0.0      *10      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      26.      26.4     26.4
IN11T        la.66 P.A..       -        -                   0.0      0.0      0.0      71.8     71.81    71.8     71.8      67.7     54.1     60.6
OA TOTALS                                      -        on        -       0.0      0.0      0.0    599.2      71.8     71.8      71.8     94.1     90.5     "7.
nm IF rim  NE FE                                         -        M      49.0     54.7      47.9    (81.4)   (14.9)    16.7     968A       7.6     l8.9     80.9



ID.  1L1J DIMIIUC   clU                                                         3NJC. DISIRITC  COIIL
5rATSOYSM OF AFFIR6
- C 191 Cnatet 3  0g00 )
Seckx A   Rat:    361.00   a   M6       2.9      2   2.96     2.911    2.9           2.9      2W      2.W      2W       2.W11
WIlHIW PJET 
Atual -- -Al--------- Projected -
Ft 19117-0   19649   119910   19W041  1-t2  1992-S  19*44   19949   1995-"   19"-97  1997-9   19-9   199-2000
Dalll!: ~       nma cosa
WI
Rates                                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Comrcial                                  0.-0     0.-°0    0.-°0    00       0.0      0.0     0-.       0.0     00       0.0      00       00        0.
Fa & Ohar3o               8             153.4    184.6   248.4   814.7   850.4   84.9.   84.8    862.5   401.6   421.7   442.6   454.9   466.2
interet                                   1.5      1.6      1.6      1.6      1.:      1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6      1.6      I.6      1.6
amernmUnt or.st                          28.8    2S.8    50.s    28.3    28.8         2S.8    28.3      25.3    28.3    25.3    28.8    28.3    28.3
Towle                                   176.J   209.0    296.6    89.6       5.4    87.9    89.2    407.5   426.6   44.7    467.6   489.9    518.1
thal Resource.            a               0.8      0.4      0.9      0.9      0.9      1.0     1.0       1.1      1.1      1.2      1.8     1.3      1.4
Wke h  Troet                              5.      32.0     8.7       6.3      9.2     62.1     6.2      6.5      71.9    75.5    79.8      3o.2     6.4
Public hath               81 85.3    46.7    54.2    86.9    59.6    62.0                      6.9      69.2    72.7      7.      60.1    84.1      8.3
Commltu D.lop.est         8              25.4     21.1    32.5    04.1    86.6    37.6    39.4          41.4    48.5    45.7    47.9    60.8    10.9
milm0st.7                                          .1       1.0      1.1      1.1      1.2      1.2      1.8      1.8      1.4     1.5      1.6      1.6
C_taul a arl              86             74.2    93.6    116.4    12i.3    126.4    114.    141.5    1.         1.0   16.6    172.0    16.6          .7
Lao  Cherea              -8               6.9     11.6    10.6    10.0        9.5      9.1   * .6       6.2       7.6     7.4      7.0      6.7      6.3
Rem. Cmtributin           8               0.0      0.0      6.0      6.8      6.6      6.9      7.2      7.6      6.0     6.4      6.6      9.2      9.7
,TOtI-                                   161.2   218.8    275.1    2e7.0   601.2    818.8   830.2    848.9   862.8  s89.7    897.9    417.1   437.8
SUB/OWClT FR Pt                           (2.9)    (5.5)    20.4    51.6      4.      56.6    59.0      61.6    64.8    67.0    69.6    72.0    75.6
ATWLE1T0D UJCLUBOFICT             -19.8    (28.2)   (25.7)    (5.2)    U.6    100.7   157.3   216.3    277.9   842.2   409.1    49.0    551.6   62W.6
VIM PUOJET
Additional lacosa                       -        -        -         0.0      0.0    25.0    20.0    80.0    70.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0                   U
Additional Recurrent Epnditrer.         -        -        -         0.0      0.0    20.0    60.0       60.0    60.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
6116/MIIT FM P q_/ EaM                                        M      51.6      4.1      1.46    49.0     51.6     ".8    5s.o    59.6    62.6         6.6
A83LATfW  AlI/DEICIT             -19.2      M       E                                                     -        E-        M       E        - 
CASR.  AML?SIS
( Current M 'OOD ) ----
Dometic Inflation Rt.e:                  9.05     6.06    5.06      6.06    6.06     5.06     5.06     5.06s    5.0
Damoutic Price Ild.x:           100      109      116     121       127     184      140      147      166     1i
I           Actul ---    1-- -- _________- -  Projected ----I
sorces of Fund.                      Ft 19676  1966-6   1919-0  199-1  19-942  1992-98  199894  194-95  19I6-96  199U-97  197-96  1996-99  199-2000
LIMI   I FIT HR    *JOT q_rim current 36)    M        M        MU     51.6    59.0    71.1       s.5      U.7    72.6    6o.0        6.2    97.2    107.0
LC M   55s per Cos Phasiop bJ  -        -        -         0.0      0.0      0.0    28.7      28.7   188.4       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
U  UTMS                                       9                 M      51.6    59.0    71.1       3.2      o9.5   206.0    60.0      6.2       97.2   107.0         00
ApplIaties of Fund.s
AZSITI OF 8111f as e Cost nha.ie bJ       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    28.7      28.7    18.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Oar1 IVI0L PRIIM                  -          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     9.1      9.1       9.1        O0 
DIDT         13.8  P.A.       -        -        -         0.0      0.0      0.0      8.2      6.4     24.7    24.7    28.5    22.2    21.0
a i^Ui.                                      i         -       i-       0.0      0.0      0.0    25.9      60.1    160.1    24.7    32.6    31.4    80.1             as Go
r     P I   M Pt                                       M       M       51.6    89.0    71.1    50.8    59.3    47.          55.4    56.6    465.       76.9
- -        -       -       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~OM  -SUMMON-                                              -     



106                            Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
A.    Introduction
The project has been screened and given a Category C' rating.
Components would not result in significant environmental impact and thus
a full Environmental Analysis has not been deemed necessary.
Nevertheless, the respective city/municipal councils either In-house, In
the case of Lilongwe, and through consultants (Blantyre and Zomba) have
carried out brief environmental assessments for the major components
included in the project within the respective cities. A sumary of
these assessments follows.
B.   Lilonaw
1.   Component - Sites and Services and Squatter Upgrading Scheme,
Phwetekere.
Positive Innacte
*    Zasing pressure (reducing population densities) on the
existing THA's and thereby improving the standard of living
and social and environmental conditions experienced in the
areas,
*     Provision of a safe water supply and improved sanitation
facilities should minimize the spread of disease in the
squatter settlements and contribute towards better general
health and environmental conditions.
Achievement of a higher degree of pollution control through
the provision of pit latrines and a solid waste management
progranme.
*     Squatter dwellers will benefit from access to city and
community services currently denied to them.
Increase in the city's ratable base following plot
development should lead to an improved level of service
delivery in the TEA's (Annex 4, para 7). (A policy decision
has been taken that all rates collected in the TEA's will be
spent on financing TEA upgrading).
*     Long term lease arrangements will be granted for each plot
in the squatter areas. Evidence suggests that once this is
granted, residents will actively seek to improve their
shelters and hence their general living environment.



107                            Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
Negative Impacts
Alteration of the drainage pattern of the area due to the
imposition of the project's infrastructural network.
Increased erosion potential of dambo areas due to alteration
in the pattern of natural run off water.
On-site sanitation may resulf in leaching into the ground
water and lead to subsequent pollutlon problems.
The increase in sullage water if not properly managed may
create health hazard (eg. stagnant pools).
Increased waste generation to be accomodated both within
the sLte and the city.
Loss of cultivable land may cause economlc difficulties for
the resident squatter population.
*     Legalization of squatter plots and squatter huts currently
constructed to standards that do not meet the building
regulatLons currently existing for forml housing in Malawi.
Kitization Proposals
The following measures have been identLfied and incorporated into
the project's design to reduce potential adverse envlronmental impacts:
*     ProvisLon of V.I.P. plt latrines in every plot, which vwll:
-     be emtyable and as such negate the requLrement for
neo pits to be dug on site when full.
-     be ventilated, thereby mltigating health problems
assocLated vlth more basic on-site sanitation.
-     reduce the numbers of persons using each plt latrine
thereby reducing incLdence of overflowing pits and the
subsequent !'alth risk and nvLronmental degradation.
Suak aways will be provLded on each plot taking the water
'hook up* option. Thli requirement should help alleviate
potentLal drainage problems.
Vacuum trucks to be provided (under waste management
component) in order that a tlely and affordable latrine
emptying service will be avaLlable.
*    A new refuse tlp will be provLded wlthin the city boundary
to accomodate for existing and future solld vaste
generatLon from the sLte.



108                            Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
*     Engineering studies will be undertaken to identify means of
minimizing potential erosion problems. Such means will be
incorporated in the project component during implementation.
*     Environmental health education programme will be
established to promote improved use and maintenance of pit
latrines, solid waste disposal facilities, and drainage.
*     Implementation of a Building Materials Loan Programme (Annex
4, para 4) to financially assist plot holders to construct
or improve homes to minimum standards.
*     Regularized squatter plots will generally be larger than new
plots in order that cultivation would still be possible on
the majority of plots.
2.    Commonent - Solid Waste Manaszemnt
Positive ImPacts
-     The provision of the new landfill site will considerably
ease the pressure on the existing exhausted landfill site
(Annex 4, para 8 and 16). Operation of the new landfill
site in a controlled sanitary manner and closure of the
existing site, which is presently operated as an open
dumping site with little control, will significantly reduce
health risks and environmental degradation risks.
*     Extending the refuse collection service to include TUAs and
unplanned housing areas will reduce some of the
environmental health problems associated with on-plot
disposal.
*     The refuse collection process will become more hygienic, as
there will be a reduction in handling of refuse compared
vith present arrangement.
*    Adoption of the twice weekly collection service will reduce
the health risk attributable to unattended refuse being left
uncollected for up to one week and longer.
*     Encouragement of an improved latrine waste disposal program
will contribute to a reduction in surface water pollution
and associated environmental health problems.
Negative IN?acte
*     Higher concentrations of solid waste (at the new landfill
site) may contribute towards pollution of the water table.
*     Loss of small pockets of cultivable land at new landfill
site.



109                             Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
Potential smells arising from the landfill site could
present a nuisance.
Mitigation Proposals
The following measures have been identified to reduce potential
adverse environmental impacts and sustain satisfactory environmental
conditionst
*     A code of practice has been developed for use at the
landfill site.
The Ministry of Works has already undertaken a soil survey
into the suitability of ground conditions at the site (plus
the future northern site). Both sites were found to be
suitable for use as landfills.
-     Landscaping treatment of the landfill site will help ti
screen the site from view. Planting of a 9 meter sisal
barrier will contribute to security of the sites.
*     The permanent presence of a security guard at the landfill
site will minimize the risk from scavengers.
*     Ground water testing at the landfill will be mounted at
regular intervals to check pollution levels.
*     Compensation will be granted to city dwellers for loss of
cultivable land at the landfill site.
Monitoring
In order to ensure the successful running of the component, the
following measures will be implemented on an on-going basist
*     Ground water testing at the landfill site.
*     Site inspections of the landfill will be carried out
periodically by senior management to ensure satisfactory
landfilling practices are being upheld and that the site is
maintained in good condition.
*     All plant and equipment will be inspected regularly for
breakage and wear and tear. Repairs will be made as
required. Workshop improvements are being supported under
the project to ensure an adequate repair and maintenance
capability for landfill site plant.



110                            Annez 9
Page 5 of 6
3     ComoPnQt - TEA Uparadnta. Kawale
Positive ThDacts
Provision of improved water supply, drainage, and sanitation
facilities will reduce the incidence of spread of disease
and contribute towards better health and living conditions.
Achievement of a higher degree of pollution control through
the provision of pit latrines and a solid waste management
program.
Improved quality of living environment to residents due to
district wide improvements in TEAs (°g., improved primary
and secondary drainage).
Increased ability to effect house improvements (BMLP) should
lead to a higher standard of housing and hence environmental
conditions.
lemative Imacte
?    Disruption to residents during construction phase.
*     Tenants may be forced by plot holders to pay higher rents
due to imposition of a development charge required to offset
cost recovery (Annex 4, para 7). This additional
expenditure on rent would result in a further reduction in
income spent on basic needs. (ie., standard of living could
deteriorate). 1/
Kitiuation Proposals
The following measures have been identLfied to reduce potential
adverse environmental impacts and sustain satisfactory environmental
conditions.
*     Provision of new pit latrines in 75Z of plots which will
-     be emptyable and as such negate the requirement of new
pits to be dug on site when full.
-     be ventilated, thereby mitigating health problems
associated with sub-standard on-site sanitation.
*     Implementation of a BMLP to financ ally assist plot holders
to effect home Improvements (Annez 4, para 7).
1/    This may however encourage renters to locate to the proposed sites
and services scheme in Area 36/1, Phwtekere, (less than 2Km
distance) resulting In reduction in plot densities (currently 15
to 20 persons per plot) at Kwale.



111                            Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Zstablishment of an environmental healhh education program
(use and maintenance of pit latrines, use of solid vast.
disposal facilities, and basic drainage care). 21
Monitoring
In order to ensure the successful implementation of the project,
the following measures will be carried out on an on-going basis:
*     Sensitive enforcement of planning regulations, health and
construction bye-lavw. Improvements to dwellings will
require both planning and building control approvals.
Inspections will be carried out at regular intervals by both
health and building control inspectors.
*     Pit latrines will be inspected on completion, ensuring that
minimum standards of construction are upheld.
*     Regular maintenance of roads and drains will be carried out
to ensure continuing satisfactory performance.
21    The 3ity Council has recently established 2 new health education
units, one for environmental health care and the other for primary
(personal) health care. These units are funded by the Council in
its attempt to mount a preventative health care program,
particularly in T&A and squatter areas.



112                           Annex 10
Page 1 of 9
MALAWI
Local Government Development Project
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
1.    Economic rate of return (ERR) calculations have been carried out for
those project components where the associated benefits can be quantified in
a meaningful way. In total, ERR was calculated for 11 of the project
components. The cost for the 11 components correspond to US$17.25 million,
or 52 percent of total project (base) costs. Project costs are based on the
cost estimates in Annez 5 and include base costs and physical
contingencies. Switching values have been calculated to measure the
sensitivity of the ERR to variations in benefits and costs. The switching
values show the percentage change in benefits and costs that would result
in the ERR being IOZ. A summary of the results of the ERR calculations and
the associated switching values is provided in the table below.
MALAWh LocW OovenneMs Dsvslopmsm Pmi*M EononVo Evakualion
Proied Coona,            ERR   Perm mfo  Swb*ft vikss: EPA -
f1 oou      10 pnx t t
1: C4paoets fw ~h ERR b caoAWd                     ensfi  Com go W:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ~~~go   down: _ _ _
A.- ULngws$W lsad Sem Componn     147%     18%       11%       13%
IL Ubogs Upradn oponent            14%      7%       15%       17%
C: ULlonw Man    Road    kVUpgd    21%      2%      21%        31%
D: lango Waste M|mgsnt Component  17%      8%       10%       13%
El :np Market kyxvrwnusr compone   11%      4%       4%         39
F: SW" OnB ad No   bes C aop       30%      3%      41%        71%
0:_ Uln  Upradn CompOhl            13%      1%      24%        33%
H: 8hner  Rood UpgradIn            13%      2%       10%       19%
Lg mwW    Marhgemalt Compon       17%       6%       11%       14%
J: Zoaft Market kronernerieipx to  14%      1%      14%        16%
K: Zlnmb So ftopalpro h_Swmn op   13%       1%      11%        13%
subww                              10%     52%       14%       13%
2: oomjsd anipo  is wNh no ERR cLtuklon  n.a.    48%  n.&       n.A
g Totel pr                          na i 100%        n.e.       nAL



113                          Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
2.    The In calculations for each of the 11 project components are
presented below.
As Lilongwe Sites and Services Component
3.    Rey assumptions: Benefitst The vlllingness to pay for each of the
3,200 plots produced is estimated at US$350 per yearl/. Costs are base
costs plus physical contingencies, and maintenance costs assessed at 42 of
the investment cost p.a.. The economic life of the investments are
estimated at 20 years.
Yew           No. ofdrw pks    Value a, aIpI   h_eubt caeo   Net beeW, 192
P.s.1 952  US                _   _  _u_ _   US$
1             95            295,50         161,700         132,0
2             320           124.,00        530.000        4.225
3             GSIto   a1s  10              1e7et  d.o   7
4             SW             GUAM#J0       1,347,50        M.8z9
a          e             7meco          1.347.50       * 70.,010
6             a"             WM      ,    oie,= 0   1.1M
'   ?b2~~0  !-E                                  L=
4.    Resultat ZRRo 13 t
8wLtchlng values (MM - 10%)s        B n flts down:   11%
Costs up:         13%
3: LLIoncwe Upqradinp Component
5.   Key assumptions: Benefits include willingness to pay for the
increasd standard the upgrading would provide for the 2,250 plots. Based
on soco-economic surveys, the increased value of each plot is estimated at
US$150 per year. This is the expected increase in rent that a landlord
could be expected to charge for the standard increase. Investment costs are
as ln Annex 4 and maintenance costs are estimated at 4 pe_c-nt p.a. of the
investment cost. The oconomlc life of the lnvestments are estimated at 20
years.
1/ The estimated WTP of US$350 is based on the following calculations
The plotholder builds a house for US$1,000. Such houses rent at about
US$500 per year. Opportunity cost for the construction is about 15,
i.e. US$150 per year. The plotholder's maximu willingness to pay for
the plot would therefore be US$350 per year.



114                           Annez 10
Page 3 of 9
Year          No. of         Value of all  Investment    Net
upgraded       upgraded      costs, 1992   benefits,
plots pa.    plots, 1992   US$               1992 US$
1             75             11,250         59,070         - 47,820
2             250            48,750         196,900        - 150,512
3             500            123,750        393,800        - 280,288
4             625            217,500        492,250        - 300,740
5             375            273,750    _  492,250         - 264,180
6             425            337,500        334,730        - 62,600
7-20    °    o               337,500        0              258,740
6.   Resultat ERA: 14 %
Swiching values (NBM - 10%): DBenefits downs    15%
costs Up:         17%
C: Lilongwe Malanaalanaa Road UipgradLna
7.    Kev assumptions: Benefits are based on a trafflc count which
concluded that about 15,000 people uso the road daily (of which about
10,000 by foot and 5,000 by car or truck). As no exact measurement of
benefits were available, a "reasonable" assumption of valuing the
improvement of the road to US$O.015 per person and day was assumed. Costs
are as in Annex 4 and include physical contingencLes. Maintenance costs ar-
5 % of the investment costs and the economic life of the investments are
estimated at 20 years.
Year          No. of         Value of the  Investment    Not
persons        improved      costs, 1992   benefits,
using the     road per       US$             1992 US$
road per day  year
1             15,000         0              19,503         - 19,503
2             15,750         0              65,010         - 65,985
3             16,535         95,070         130,020        - 39,175
4             17,365         99,820         162,525        -73,428
5             18,230         104,815        162,525        -76,563
6             19,145         110,055        110,517        - 27,440
7-20          20,100 to      115,556 to    0               83,053 to
* ___________ 39,800          217,900       _  .... .. _   185,397



115                           Annex 10
Page 4 of 9
8.    Results: XRR: 21 %
SwLtchLng values (IM - 10%)s        Benefits downs   21%
Costs up$         31%
D: Lilonawe Waste Nanaa_ment Component
9.   Key assumptions: Implementation of the program would enhance the
solld waste collectlon coverage to 100 % of the populatlon. Benefits are
assessed at US$4.0 per Lncremental m3 collected (or US$12.0 per ton).
Malntenance costs are assessed at US$2.0 per m3 collected (or US$6.0 per
ton). Costs are as in Annex 4, and a life span of 20 years for the
Lnvestments is assumed.
Yoar          Incr eme ntal   Value of     investment    Net
r3 of solid   lncremental   costs, 1992   benefLts,
waste         collected      US$            1992 US$
collected     solld waste
1             50,000         200,000       75,800         - 75,800
2             100,000        400,000       252,670        - 152,670
3             150,000        600,000       505,340        - 305,340
4             170,000        680,000       631,675        -331,675
5             170,000        680,000       631,675        - 291,675
6             170,000        680,000       429,539        - 89,539
7-20          170,000        680,000       0              340,000
10.  Reaults: MRR  17 %
Swlchlng values (ZRR - 10%)t Beneflts downs    10%
Costs up.         13%
B. Blantyre Market Imorovem_nts Component
11.  Key AsumDtlonsr  Beneflts include lncremental revenues the councll
will collect from thre markets that would be improved. The Lncremental
revenues have been asesed by Blantyre City Councll staff takLng lnto
consideration the larger number of vendors and the improved level of the
facilities. Costs are as ln Annex 4, and maintenance costs are assessed at
2% of lnvestment costs. An economic llfe of 20 years is assumed.
Year          Incremental   Incremental   Investment    Net
rev*nues     j revenues      costs, 1992   beneflts,
Limbe market   Likabula and  US$            1992 US$
markets



116                           Annez 10
Page 5 of 9
0             0              37,950         - 37,950
1             50,000         13,000        126,500        - 62,259
2             70,000         17,000        253,000        - 169,289
3             85,000         19,000        316,250        - 250,599
4             100,000        20,000        316,250        - 210,924
5             120,000       20,000         215,050        - 96,049
6             145,000        20,000        0              139,700
7-20          145,000        20,000        0              139,700
12.   Results: IRRs 11 %
Switching values (ERR - 10%):       Benefits downs    4%
Costs up:         3%
Ps Blantyre Sites and Services Component:
13.  Key assumptiona:
Benefts The willingness to pay for each of the 980 plots produced
is estimated at US$250 per year2/. Costs are base costs plus
physLcal contlngencies, and maintenance costs assessed at 5% of the
Lnvestment cost p.a.. The conomic llfe of the Lnvestments are
estLmated at 20 years.
Year          No. of new    Value of all  investment    Net
plots p.a.    plots, 1992   costs, 1992   benefLts,
______________   _________ _    USS        USU           1992   US$
1             29             7,350         27,324         - 19,974
2             98             31,850        91,080         - 60,596
3             196            80,850        182,160        - 107,230
4             245            142,100       227,700        - 100,628
5             245            203,350       227,700        - 50,763
6             67             245,000       154,836         52,365
2I The estimated WTP of US$350 is based on the following calculations
The plotholder builds a house for US$1,000. Such houses rent at about
US$500 per year. Opportunity cost for the construction is about 15Z,
i.e. US$150 per year. The plotholder's mazium willingness to pay for
the plot would therefore be US$350 per year.



117                          Annes 10
Page 6 of 9
7 to 20      l              245,000       l                199,460
14. Resultas ERRs 30 %
Switching v&lues (ERR - 10%):       Benefits down:    41%
Costs up:         71%
Ga Blantyre Upgrading Component
15.   Key assumptionst Benefits lnclude wlllingness to pay for the
Lncreased standard the upgradLng would provlde for 520 plots, 138 plots Ln
Chilomoni THA, and some 382 unplanned plots ln Nkolokoti). Based on socLo-
economic surveys, the lncreased value of each plot is estimated at US$110
per year. Thli is the *xpected Lncrease ln rent that a landlord could be
expected to charge for the standard Lncrease. Investment costs are as ln
Annex 4 and malntenance costs are estimated at 4 percent p.a. of the
Lnvestment cost. The economic llfe of the Lnvestments are estimated at 20
years.
Year          No. of         Value of all  Investment    Not
upgraded      upgraded       costs, 1992   bonefits,
plots p.a.    plots, 1992   US$             1992 US$
________ ___  ___ ____  USs        _
1             16             1,716         8,679          - 6,963
2             52             7,436         28,930         - 21,841
3             104            18,876        57,860         - 40,488
4             130            33,176        72,325         - 42,968
5             130          I 47,476       I 72,325       I - 31,560
6                             s  57,200    49,181         - 1,586
7-20                         57,200             _          45,678
16.   Results  ERR: 18 %
Switching values (RR - 10%):        Benefits down:    24%
Costs up$         33%
H: Blantyro Road Uporadina
17.   Key assumptLonst Beneflts for the upgrading would consist of: (i)
dlversLon of trafflc from LndustrLal estates ln the areas away from the
city center, (LL) an alternative route for trafflc between Lllongwe/Chle-ka
road and Zomba/LLmbe, and (LLL) encouragement of commercial and residential
development of tho South Lunza area. Approximately 6,850 persons are
expected to use the road dally of whlch 1,850 ln cars and 5,000 by foot.
The Lmproved road would have an estimated value of US$0.02 per person usLng



118                           Annex 10
Page 7 of 9
the road. Costs are as in Annex 4, maintenance costs are 5S of the
upgrafding costs, and the economic life of the upgrading is 20 years.
Year          No. of        Value of the  Investment    Net
persons       improved       costs, 1992   benefite;
usiLg the     road per       Us$            1992 US$
road per day  year    .
1             1,945         0              15,543         - 15,543
2             2,040          8,957         51,810         - 43,629
3             2,140          23,876        103,620        - 83,111
4             2,250          44,062        129,525        - 94,011
5             2,360          66,207        129,525        - 78,342
6             2,480          83,755        88,077         - 25,822
7-20          2,605 to       87,940 to     0              62,038 to
____________ -4,675          132,664                       139,926
Results: RM: 16 %
Swltching values (NRR - 10%):       8enefits down:    16%
Costs up:         19%
I: Blantyre Waste Manaagment Component
18.  Lea assumPtLons: mplementatlon of th. program would enhance the
solid waste collectLon coverage to 100 % of the populatlon. 3enefits are
assessed at US$4.0 per lncremental m3 collected (or US$12.0 per ton).
MaLntnance costs are assessed at US$2.0 per .3 collected (or US$6.0 per
ton). Costs are as ln Annex 4, and a life span of 20 years for the
investments s assumed.
Year          Incremental   Value of       Investment    Not
d3 of solld   lncr m_ntal   costs, 1992   benefLts,
wasto         collected      US$            1992 US$
collected     solid waste
1             50,000         200,000       75,800         - 75,800
2             100,000        400,000       252,670    _ - 152,670
3             1S0,000        600,000       505,340        - 305,340
4             170,000        680,000       631,675        -331,675
5             170,000        680,000       631,675        - 291,675
6             170,000        680,000       429,539        - 89,539



119                           Annez 10
Page 8 of 9
7-20         I 170,000     I 680,000      I 0            1340,000
19.  Resultss ERR: 17 %
Swltchlng values (ERR - 10%)s       BenefLts down:    10%
Costs up:         13%
J: Zomba Market ImDrovement Component
20. Key AssumptLons: BenefLts include incremental revenues the councll
will collect from the improved market. Revenues will incerase due to a 58
percent Lncrease ln rented space/vendors, and du- to a 50 percent lncrease
ln rent due to the improved facLlitLes. Costs are as in Annex 4, and
maintenanco costs are assessed at 2% of investment costs. An economic llfe
of 20 years is assumed.
Year          Incremental   Incremental   Investment    met
revenues,     revenues       costs, 1992   beneflts,
new vendors   rent           US$            1992 US$
increases
1             0              0             - 7,650        - 7,803
2             1,650          3,005         - 25,500       - 21,508
3             4,950          6,670         - 51,000       - 41,063
4             16,500         13,470        - 63,750       - 36,737
5             16,500         20,800        - 63,750       - 33,983
6             16,500         22,450        - 43,350       - 9,500
- 7           16,500         22,450        0              33,850
8-20         I 16,500      I 22,450         0  .         33,850 __ .
21.   Results: ERRs 14 %
SwlchLng values (=RR - 10%): Benefits downs   14%
Costs upS         16%
Ks Zomba Due Dioot UVDrading
22.   Key Assumptlonos Benefits lnclude incr_mental revenues the councll
will collect due to the improveents of the bus depot. The rented space
will lncreas by 100 percent and rents would also be lncreased by 20% to
recover costs for improved faclitlis. Costs ar* as ln annex -, and
maintenance costs are asoossd at 2% of invostment costs. An economic life
of 20 years s assumed.



120                           Annez 10
Page 9 of 9
Year          Incremental   Investment    Not
revenues      costs  1992   benefits,
.___ _ _ _ _ _ _   US$   1992  US$
1             0               4,587  -      - 4,816
2             2,410           15,290        - 13,873
3             9,640           30,580        - 23,462
4             18,075          38,225        - 24,584
5             21,690          38,225        - 22,880
6             24,100          25,993        - 9,538
7             28,920         0              21,275
8-20          28,920         0              21,275
23.   Results: NRR: 13 %
Swiching values (ZRR - 10%)s Benef$ts downt    11%
Costs up:         13%



121                           Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    The specific policy reform and institutional development nature of
this project calls for specialized monitoring, particularly in the
start-up stage (years one and two). The policy reform activities --
studies, drafting legislation, advocacy and implementation workshops
(which would bring together key policy makers to reach consensus on
actions) -- would need to have interventions by and participation of IDA
staff and consultants. Timing and frequency of missions will be a
function of these events. The institutional upgrading aspects of the
project will require close monitoring, as project performance is linked
to how well the restructuring of the MLG is responding to the new roles
of the local governments and the support they receive from it. While
there is no unusual amount nor type of civil works and equipment
procurement under the project, the MLG and participating councils have
not had experience in IDA project implementation, and will require
guidance in the early stages of the process. Similarly a key element of
the institutional building aspect of the project is the large scale
training program. Specialists in local government training will be
needed to oversee the effectiveness of the tracing activities.
2.    Routine supervision missions should include a procurement
specialist and/or municipal engineer, and a financial analyst which
would work with the participating Councils and with the MLG in assuring
that financial reporting and auditing is carried out in a timely manner.
Full missions should include expertise in public finance, training,
urban economics/planning, and municipal legislation.
3.    The number of Bank Group staff weeks required for supervising the
project is 17 for the first year, 15 for the second year and an average
of 12 per- year thereafter. For the start-up phase, missions should be
planned on about four-month intervals in order to cover the special
needs outlined above. Also the bulk of the polLcy reform component
(studies, debate and implementation of changes) are scheduled to take
place in the early part of the project's implementation. Missions
should pay particular attention to the institutional performance of MLG,
particularly with regard to procurement: time required to issue
requests for proposals (RFPs), select winning bids, sign contracts, and
pay invoices; conformity with IDA procurement procedures and with RFP
conditions; and ability to anticipate and deal with cost overruns,
especially in civil works (even though these are the participating
Council's responsibilities). Supervision missions should also
scrutinize the agencies' operating costs.
4.    For this purpose a list of performance indicators will be drawn up
jointly by representatives of the participating agencies and IDA. An
assessment of performance by indicator will be attached to the quarterly
progress reports which each agency would be required to forward to IDA
no later than one month after the end of the quarter. Quarterly



122                            Amnex 11
Page 2 of 3
missions vill need to compare invoices paid to subcontractors for works
carried out at the site.
5.    Regular meetings of the project implementation team  will be
scheduled to coincide with the IDA supervision mission schedule. The
team would present to the IDA missions reports on the financial
contributions by beneficiaries (cost recovery); and the Councils'
contributions to the project.
6.    The Borrower and the Association shall no later than August 31,
1995 conduct a mid-term proiect implementation review in order (a) to
monitor progress in carrying out the project and performance of the
Government wnd the executing agencies under the respective agreements;
(b) to agree on (i) studies and programs identified during project
implementation; and (ii) procurement and financing of the rest of such
studies and program; and (c) to propose coordinated solutions to any
current issues. To enable such a review, the Borrower shall cause MLG
and the councils to employ independent consultants on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA to carry out an evaluation of activities
completed by December 31, 1994. Not later than August 31, 1994, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and comments
the report prepared by consultants, including coments of the executing
agencies and the Borrower in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request includings Mi) an evaluation of progress achieved in
project implementation by the by the Borrower and the executing
agencies, in particular in accordance with their respective agreements;
and, (ii) a draft action plan covering the period through project
completion. The draft action program shall cover the following: (a)
program of works, (b) detailed procurement program; (c) detailed
technical assistance and training; and detailed financing plan including
cost recovery measures and government counterpart financing. Promptly
after completing the mid-term review, those recmmen dations coming out
of said review as agreed by the Borrower and the Association shall be
carried out. It was agreed at negotiations that this mid-term project
implementation review would be carried out under conditions and on the
proposed dates detailed above.



123                           Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
IDS Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
e ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     I  =
|                             _~~~~~~I
1 s4Won n b p 1 _"n 9*~sm                               a
dqhred d_
Wmbd Pe Wqe-mm                                   Pmcsmwnkt bkuMwd
wde b~* *owur  dfl di ~  m
h,        d  aWt4p   -     f%%rd  _
pro~asnint. .mpali pmagsw               TU
aw"" lbu MItM ~d o*fg progm edwl      atd  G"Otmn
Ub"                   1 e,dmsum ID *w prod pro IV   A a  onmmiua
OmmWyw   pmd an f kwdrbr winka  ma wW i   mid
Susri pw im sriw#mwwkamnaM*mftsw"d edwW                   m~
_TAnT w-. RsWswpppasd hud._
h¶pd   An w9ups hi                     e_ mmri  -.  amm-
F om9un   I iuid mp m I Pu kpr hi pdky    bmw w.i gim w0
m4wN atce _tS a
rn                                                       12
| ay d Ts  c  R    p   _*~~~~~~~~~PA



124
Annex 12
MALAWI
LOCAL GOVERNMENS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents on Prolect File
SELECTED DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILE:
Malavi Government: Local Government Development
Project (Volume 1 Main Report and Volume 2
Appendices), April. 1991.
Lilongve City Council: Project Submission for World
Bank, Local Government Development Project, Hay 1991.
Lilongve City Council: Integrated Development
Strategy, AUgust 1991.
City of Blantyre: Loc;l Government Development
Project, Blantyre Project Proposal. September 1991.
City of Blantyre: Malavi City Councils Town Clerk's
Project, Policies and Projects.
Municipality of Zomba: Local Government Development
Project, Zomba Project Proposal, September 1991.
Government of Malawi: Report on the reviev of local
government legislation, February 1991.
Malavi Government, Ministry of Local Governmenti
Manpower and Training Needs Assessment, December 1991.
Government of Malavi, Ministry of Local Governments
Report on the Review of Local Government Legislation,
February 1991.



IBRD 23560
3il        TOz Dar Es St                              43
10                                                                                                                            o
This aop has ben  nmparsd
ex dndee          . a i  f                                    \          LOCAL GOVERNMENT
16feonl dwe nofi T. wddBonk                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
andS Ihe bounrdones  holwn I     
ony h1smmon on                                        I
enrdo nt orf
uu    1 boundor   h
vich b.un*ri"                                        0 X i   ,)O  PROJECT SITES
Lake                 -         PRINCIPAL ROADS
eJ    r  }?-bi ;UZuitlih      \           °~~ TOWNS
*     DISTRICT CAPITALS
Mzkin        1'X'   Wf        /         |         *      NATI'- 4AL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA           J     r           r     /                    t  '                 -     REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
{ .   ,,  0tX Ma lewi  KI nLOMETERS   0   20  40  60  80  100
Ch.l.                                                                   '    ILSO 2  40  6
MOZAMBIQUE
To Lusaka            ddli I m4 
-14'                            \t                                           1      f \ \                                    14'.
MOZAMBIQUE-                                                                        hhv
z4n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Apil 1992



