Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2379 MAI
              (Local Government Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 2, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2379 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
Page  2
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
      (b)   "DFLA" means the  Development Fund for Local Authori-
ties;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Local Authorities pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "LGSC" means the Local Government Service Commission;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 16, 1990, June 12,
1990, August 1, 1991 and September 23, 1991 between the Borrower and
the Association;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Local Authorities" means the City Councils of Lilongwe,
Blantyre and Mzuzu, the Municipality of Zomba, the Town Councils of
Salima and Luchenza and the District Councils of M'Mbelwa, Ntcheu
and Nsanje; and
      (h)   "Central Bank Rate" means the lending rate to commercial
banks determined by the Reserve Bank of Malawi from time to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 17,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in a commercial Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
Page  3
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MLG
and the Local Authorities with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial administrative and local
government practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall on-lend to the Local Authorities an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $18,500,000 out of the
proceeds of the Credit to finance the infrastructure and services to
be carried out under Part C of the Project under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association and which
shall include: (a) repayments of principal (i) not exceeding 25
years, including five years of grace, for infrastructure invest-
ments, and (ii) not exceeding five years for other loans; (b)
interest rates that are linked to the Central Bank rate as follows:
Central Bank rate less 1% for infrastructure loans, and Central Bank
rate plus 1% for other loans; (c) repayments of principal and
payments of interest to DFLA to be used by DFLA for financing local
authorities' infrastructure and other investment needs; and (d) the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of DFLA, the Local Authori-
ties and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
Page  5
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   DFLA has been established, and staffed with at least one
accountant and has furnished the Association with evidence that it
has opened a treasury payment account with the Reserve Bank of
Malawi;
      (b)   MLG has caused the study on grants and payments in lieu
of rates referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
to be commenced;
      (c)   detailed design and engineering, and bidding documents
for the infrastructure works to be carried out in Lilongwe, Blantyre
and Zomba under Part C of the Project have been completed;
Page  6
      (d)   Project accounts, satisfactory to the Association, have
been established in MLG and the Local Authorities; and
      (e)   all steps required for the transfer of unencumbered land
to the councils for sites and services and upgrading components
under Part C of the Project have been completed.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Capital City
            Lilongwe 3, Malawi
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINANCE                   44407 MI
                  Malawi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                        By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ F. J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Page  7
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works:                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
      (a) for sites and          3,780,000      85% of local
          services and                          expenditures
          upgrading under
          Part C of the
          Project
      (b) Other                  2,750,000
(2)  Waste Management            3,230,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Vehicles and                2,300,000      100% of foreign
     Equipment                                  expenditures
(4)  Studies and                 1,290,000      100%
     Consultants'
     Services
(5)  Training                    1,030,000      100%
                        Amount of the
                      Credit Allocated         % of
                       (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Incremental             330,000       Calendar Year 1992
     Operating                             100% SDR 25,000
     Expenditures                          Calendar Year 1993
                                           70% SDR 45,000
                                           Calendar Year 1994
                                           60% SDR 75,000
                                           Calendar Year 1995
                                           45% SDR 75,000
                                           Calendar Year 1996
                                           35% SDR 45,000
                                           Calendar Year 1997
                                           and thereafter
                                           25% SDR 65,000
(7)  Refunding of            860,000       Amounts due
     Project                               pursuant to
     Preparation                           Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                               of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated           2,030,000
                          __________
     TOTAL                17,600,000
                          ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating expenditures" means
expenditures incurred for salaries, travel and subsistence
allowances, fuel, lubricants, maintenance of vehicles and office
supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 25,000
may be made in respect of Category 6 on account of payments made for
expenditures incurred before that date but after January 1, 1992;
and (b) expenditures in respect of Category 1 (a) unless the
Association has received evidence that policies on cost recovery,
compensation and plot allocation have been adopted pursuant to
paragraphs 7 (a) and (b) and paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to enhance the financial and
administrative capacity of the local government system to: (a)
provide and maintain municipal services and infrastructure at a
level consistent with the affordability, size and growth rate of the
population; and (b) finance such activities mainly with locally
generated funds, and improve the financial management of such funds.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Policy Reforms
      Implementation of legal and institutional reforms through a
series of policy studies, workshops and implementation of associated
work plans including: (a) a comprehensive review of all basic and
subsidiary legislation regulating the urban sector; (b) delineation
of the functions, duties and responsibilities of district adminis-
tration and local authorities; (c) improvement of the fiscal
performance of MLG and local authorities; and (d) improvement of
human resources management including a study to define the role of
the LGSC and the personnel system of local authorities.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of the operational capacity  of MLG and selected
local authorities including provision of vehicles and equipment, and
modifications of MLG's staffing and organization.
2.    Training of staff of MLG and local authorities.
3.    Strengthening MLG's technical capability.
Part C:     Infrastructure and Services
      Strengthening selected local authorities' capability to
improve and expand infrastructure and services and to operate and
maintain existing investments and equipment, including:
1.    in Lilongwe: (a) provision of surveyed sites and supporting
Page  9
infrastructure for one new traditional housing area; (b) upgrading
and rehabilitation of one squatter settlement and one traditional
housing area; (c) civil works, vehicles and equipment to increase
efficiency of solid and liquid waste management; (d) upgrading of
work depot, one access road and parking facilities for a market
area; and (e) provision of a geographical information system for the
city council;
2.    in Blantyre: (a) civil works and the provision of equipment
and vehicles for enhanced operations and maintenance and for
improved solid waste management; (b) provision of surveyed sites and
supporting infrastructure for one new traditional housing area; (c)
upgrading of one traditional housing area and two markets; and (d)
provision of one geographical information system with supporting
computer equipment;
3.    in Zomba, upgrading of two markets and the bus depot and
provision of vehicles and equipment; and
4.    upgrading work and provision of maintenance vehicles and
equipment to the urban councils of Mzuzu, Salima and Luchenza and
the district councils of M'Mbelwa, Ntcheu and Nsanje.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and
equipment shall be grouped in packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works contracts in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including public opening of bids, specific criteria for bid
Page  10
evaluation, including the evaluation of post qualification criteria
and award of contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower and the Local Authorities to
carry out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    (a)   MLG shall be responsible for monitoring the implementa-
tion of the Project and coordination with the various councils and
agencies involved in the carrying out of the Project through a
Project Coordinator assisted by MLG's management assistance team
comprising the Deputy Secretary of MLG as Chairman, the Project
Coordinator as secretary, the four resident advisors and key MLG
staff as members. The Project Coordinator shall ensure that the
agencies responsible for implementing the various components of the
Project shall prepare quarterly and annual progress reports, and
shall prepare and furnish the Association with consolidated annual
reports.
      (b)   The Borrower and the Association shall jointly review
progress made in the implementation of the Project by not later than
August 31, 1995, and to this end, shall commence preparatory work
for such review by August 31, 1994. The Borrower shall take such
corrective measures, satisfactory to the Association, as may be
necessary as a result of such review.
Page  11
Part A of the Project
2.    MLG's management assistance team shall monitor the timely
implementation of Part A of the Project with the assistance of four
advisors specializing in municipal management, maintenance/
engineering, human resources and financial management. The Project
Coordinator, with the assistance of MLG's management assistance
team,shall prepare and furnish the Association with annual progress
reports in accordance with paragraph 1 above.
3.    MLG shall: (a) carry out the policy studies and workshops
required to implement the legal and institutional reforms under Part
A of the Project in accordance with an action plan satisfactory to
the Association; and (b) after a joint review with the Association
of recommendations made under such studies, implement the agreed
actions, in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association.
4.   MLG shall cause studies to be carried out to assist the
Borrower in determining appropriate mechanisms to support local
authorities after the current practice of grants in lieu of rates to
local authorities is discontinued.
Part B of the Project
5.    The training program for staff shall be conducted at the Staff
Training College at Mpemba, the University of Malawi and the Malawi
Institute of Management, in accordance with a plan satisfactory to
the Association.
Part C of the Project
6.    In order to strengthen MLG's capability to provide local
authorities with prompt and effective assistance the Borrower shall:
(a) take the necessary measures to reorganize MLG in accordance with
a plan satisfactory to the Association; and (b) ensure that
appropriate budgetary allocations are made in each year of Project
implementation, to enable MLG to cover the increased operational
expenditures to be incurred as a result of the reorganization
referred to in (a) above.
7.    MLG shall ensure that Lilongwe City Council and Blantyre City
Council will furnish the Association with satisfactory assurances
that, while implementing the sites and services and upgrading works
to be carried out in their respective jurisdictions, they will: (a)
apply appropriate cost recovery measures; and (b) implement
appropriate plans, satisfactory to the Association, to compensate
any claims from parties that may be adversely affected by the
implementation of such works.
8.    MLG shall furnish the Association with a satisfactory action
plan, to ensure that sites and services to be developed and
upgrading works to be carried out under Part C of the Project will
take place on unencumbered land.
9.   MLG shall furnish the Association with a satisfactory plot
allocation policy for the traditional housing areas in the cities of
Lilongwe and Blantyre.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
Page  12
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
Page  13
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
