Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15233
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3356-PH)
JANUARY 31, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Peso P
Rate of Exchange (average Peso Per US Dollar)
Appraisal Year 1991 =      27.479
1992 =    25.512
1993 =    27.120
Completion 1994 =    26.443 (estimate)
Land Bank of Philippines
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
ACPC           Agricultural Credit Policy Council
ALF            Agricultural Loan Fund
ARF            Agrarian Reform Fund
BSP            Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (the Central Bank)
CARP           Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CFI            Countryside Financial Institution
CLF            Countryside Loan Fund
DA             Department of Agriculture
DENR           Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF           Department of Finance
EMB            Environmental Management Bureau
GFI            Government Financial Institution
GOP            Government of the Philippines
LBP            Land Bank of the Philippines
NEDA           National Economic & Development Authority
PCIC           Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation
PCR           Project Completion Report
PDIC           Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation
PFIs           Participating Financial Institutions
QGFB           Quedan Guarantee Fund Board
QUEDANCOR      Quedan and Rural Guarantee Corporation
RBs            Rural Banks
SRTF           Special Revolving Trust Fund
WAIR           Weighted Average Interest Rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                    January 31, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Rural Finance Project (Loan 3356-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Philippines Rural Finance project (Loan
3356-PH, approved in FY91), prepared by the East Asia & Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower prepared
Part II, which agrees with and adds to Part 1.
The principal objectives of the project were: (i) to expand the volume of commercial credit for
rural development, particularly medium- and long-term credit; and (ii) to improve the policy and
institutional framework of the rural financial sector. The Bank's loan, for US$150 million, was committed
in its entirety to the Countryside Loan Fund (CLF) administered in an apex capacity by the parastatal Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP). Government and LBP were committed to policy, institutional and
regulatory reforms.
The Bank's loan was fully disbursed in three years, half the projected period. Real lending rates to
the participating retail banks and rural sub-borrowers were positive and market determined, and recovery
rates have been excellent. The project helped consolidate the new market-oriented rural credit policy
established by an earlier project. Government passed the agreed regulatory measures. However, many of
the expected institutional reforms were not achieved during the shortened implementation period. The
outreach of the CLF was modest. The number of sub-loans was 30 percent of the target, because the
average sub-loan was three times bigger than under the preceding project. The Rural and Thrift Banks
which serve the smaller commercial farmers did not significantly increase their participation in the program.
There is also a possibility that a significant amount of the project funds onlent by the LBP substituted for
shorter tern funds previously provided to traditional clients by the commercial banks. The issue of
additionality was mentioned in the cofinancier's (USAID) impact study of the preceding project, OED's
audit report of that project, and the Staff Appraisal Report for this project, but the PCR does not raise it. The
PCR provides a good description of the project from the perspective of the CLF. Its treatment of
additionality and incremental impact of the sub-loans on farms and enterprises is, however, inadequate.
Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The consolidation of rural credit policy in a market
framework is a notable achievement, as is the good performance of the portfolio. The failure to expand
coverage, and the possibility that some project funds were substituted for traditional lending, are worrisome
features that call for further study. Institutional development during the shortened implementation period is
rated as modest, in recognition of the improved competence of LBP to manage the lending line, reasonable
progress with strengthening the finances of many Rural Banks and training of their staff, offset by the slow
growth in the participation of Rural and Thrift Banks in the program and lack of progress with two
guarantee funds. Sustainability of the medium- and long-term lending lines through official and private
sources is guaranteed during the operational period of a follow-on loan and is rated as likely. The
performance of the Bank in implementing the CLF was satisfactory. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFmCLAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3356-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . . . . . . .                           1
A.  Project  Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
B. Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         1
C. Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . .                         1
D.  Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        2
E. Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         3
F. Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         5
G. Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           9
H. Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        10
I. Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        10
J.  Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       10
K. Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        11
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . . . . .                          12
A. Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        12
B.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       13
C. Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        15
D. Analysis of the Project    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        22
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          25
1. Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        25
2. Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        26
3. Project Cost & Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        26
4. Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        27
A. Disbursements by Category   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       27
B. Estimated and Actual Disbursements over Time    . . . . .                       27
5. Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        28
6. CLF:  Interest Rates,  Inflation and Onlending   . . . . . . .                      29
7. CLF Balance Sheets & Profit & Loss Accounts    . . . . . . .                        30
8. Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        31
9. Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        34
A.  Staff Inputs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      34
B. Missions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       34
MAP:  IBRD 27553
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3356-PH)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Finance
Project in the Philippines for which Loan 3356-PH in the amount of US$150 million
was approved on June 21, 1991. The loan was fully disbursed on June 8, 1994,
substantially ahead of the original closing date of March 31, 1997.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Department I,
East Asia and Pacific Region, and Part II by the Borrower.  The PCR is based
inter alia on a Completion Report from Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) dated
August 26, 1994; the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 9563-PH) dated May 30, 1991; the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements dated July 11, 1991; Bank Supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and
field work by a Bank mission in May 1994.
The Bank wishes to thank the management and staff of the Land Bank
of the Philippines for their cooperation and assistance in preparing this PCR.






Hii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3356-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1.          The project's main objectives were to expand the volume of commercial
credit, particularly medium- and long-term credit, for rural development in the
Philippines and to improve the policy and institutional framework of the rural
financial sector. The Bank loan provided funds totalling US$150 million over a
two and one half year period for short-, medium- and long-term credit through the
Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) Countryside Loan Fund (CLF). In parallel a
number of steps and measures were taken to institutionally and financially
strengthen the rural banking system; to strengthen agencies supporting rural
finance, particularly the Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation (PCIC) and the
Quedan Guarantee Fund Board (QGFB), as well as LBP itself; to undertake policy
studies on rural finance; and to provide training for staff of LBP, Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) and Co-operatives.
Implementation Experience
2.          The loan was fully disbursed more than two years ahead of schedule
despite a delay in loan effectiveness brought about by slow fulfillment of
conditions concerning branch liberalization and approval of the Rural Banks
(RBs') capitalization program both of which were under the responsibility of the
Monetary Board.   LBP, the borrower, performed well under the project.   The
monitoring of individual sub-loans and associated investments was, however, weak
and this aspect of the CLF Unit needs strengthening. Relationships between LBP
and PFIs were generally good, but relationships between LBP and Agricultural
Credit Policy Council (ACPC) were poor, and as a result the studies which were
to have been undertaken under the project were only partially completed. The
implementation of PCIC's development program was inhibited by a Government
imposed freeze on insurance premiums payable by farmers in parallel with a cap
being placed on the sum paid to cover premium subsidies. This has resulted in
PCIC being able to collect only a part of the total preimums due.
Results
3.          Overall the project succeeded in meeting its principal objectives.
It provided much needed medium- and long-term credit for rural investment which
is chronically under-funded in the Philippines from formal sources. Investments
supported by the project were greater than envisaged at appraisal due to higher
contributions by both PFIs and sub-borrowers. In total, 687 borrowers benefitted
from project funded investments. Altogether, 411 of CLF loan amounts went to
agro-processing, 31% to agriculture and aquaculture, 15% to manufacturing and 13%
to services. The project was reasonably diversified geographically but still



iv
concentrated on the more developed rural areas. Commercial Banks handled 72% of
total loan funds; Thrift Banks 17%; Government Banks 4%; and both Non-Bank
Financial Institutions (NBFIs) and Rural Banks (RBs) 3% each. Sub-loans averaged
P7.1 million (about US$270,000) and 85% of sub-loans were for expansion of
existing enterprises rather than new businesses. Less than 10% of total funds
were lent short-term, about two thirds of investments were in fixed assets, and
one third working capital. Loan recoveries under the CLF program have been very
good with past dues to LBP amounting to only 0.02% of their outstanding loan
portfolio. Rates charged under the project to sub-borrowers were positive in
real terms and rates charged by LBP to PFIs were market oriented.
4.          Sub-borrowers, PFIs and LBP have all benefitted financially from the
project. Average FRRs on sub-project investments were estimated ex ante at about
30% and average ERRs at 35% compared with the average real cost of funds of about
10%. The lending spreads which were 3* for NBFIs, 3.7% for Commercial Banks,
4.4% for thrift banks and 8% for rural banks were sufficient to make the use of
CLF funds attractive to them. LBP benefitted both directly through its operating
spread (it earned an incremental US$2.7 million net in 1993 as a result of CLF)
and from the assistance which the loan covenants gave it in establishing itself
as a viable self-supporting institution. Depending on long-term movements in
exchange rates between the World Bank's pool of currencies and the peso, the
foreign exchange guarantee fees collected by the Government may not be sufficient
to cover the foreign exchange risk. As of 31st August 1994, the "unrealized open
loss" to Government for the project, after adjusting for the value of re-invested
guarantee and foreign exchange fees, was about US$5 million.
SustainabilitY
5.          The CLF program will continue to be sustainable provided LBP is
successful with continued resource mobilization (both internal and external).
But as markets develop, the interest rate setting mechanism needs to become more
sophisticated, in particular, the system of setting fixed rate loans, which are
considered by the PFIs as a very important feature of the CLF program.
Strengthening of the RBs should help to increase the amount of funds (which are
still small) channelled through them to the rural areas.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.          The project has made a significant positive contribution towards
developing the rural credit sector in the Philippines. In particular, there has
been substantial institutional development in the RBs and in LBP itself. The
rural financial sector is now much more market oriented and has lower
intermediation costs than in 1991.  The following are the main lessons to be
drawn from the experience of implementing this project:
(i)   the level of investment lending in the rural area was substantially
higher than envisaged at appraisal. This was mainly due to the use
of market determined interest rates and the private banking system
which resulted in additional resource mobilization both from PFIs
and sub-borrowers.
(ii)  the mechanism for dealing with interest rate adjustments needs to be
more sophisticated and rates changed more readily in line with



v
market requirements. A market-related mechanism for setting fixed
interest rates also needs to be introduced.   As interest rates
become more finely tuned, more active marketing of CLF would be
required including LBP's adjusting its own spread to reflect
commercial conditions and the risks associated with specific PFIs;
(iii) those project components which were not directly financed by the
Bank were, in general, not successfully implemented. If actions are
to be included within projects, it is important to have financial
leverage and to provide the necessary resources for their
implementation;
(iv) the system whereby Government is bearing the foreign exchange risk
for a fee still exposes Government to potential risks. Mechanisms
whereby foreign exchange risks should be borne by the financing
institutions or borrowers rather than the Government need to become
part of future projects once the macro-economic environment allows
it; and
(iv) it may have been better to concentrate institution building under
the project more directly on LBP rather than to try to support
several other agencies.   Particular areas where this could have
taken place would have been firstly, in strengthening the capacity
of the CLF Unit with respect to individual sub-loan monitoring; and
secondly, in supporting the mobilization by LBP of medium- and long-
term resources. Although the project did mobilize some medium- and
long-term funds, these came entirely from the sub-borrowers and PFIs
and not from LBP.






-.            PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3356-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Name                           Rural Finance Project
Loan Number                    3356-PH
RVP Unit                 :    East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country                        Philippines
Sector                         Agriculture and Natural Resources
Sub-sector               :    Credit
B.    Background
1.01 Commercial Banks which concentrate on fully collateralized short-term
lending have traditionally dominated the Philippines financial sector. Lending
to the rural sector had been particularly limited due to perceptions that risks
were high; rural real estate collateral was generally considered unacceptable by
banks; resources for medium- and long-term investments were severely limited; and
in general the Rural Banks (RBs) were in weak condition. Private institutions
were further discouraged from rural lending by unfair competition from subsidized
credit under Government funded schemes.   Consequently, participation of the
banking system in long-term rural financing has been limited. Furthermore, as
a result of the financial crisis in the Philippines in the late 1980s there was
a real contraction in bank lending between 1984 and 1989.
1.02 From the standpoint of the real economy, however, there is a clear need for
medium- and long-term credit in the rural sector - at the time of appraisal
(1990), this was estimated to be at least US$1 billion per year annually of new
funding. The satisfaction of this latent demand was seen to require improved
market based incentives to induce financial institutions to better serve rural
needs. In addition, measures to enhance the access of rural borrowers to formal
credit also needed to be developed.  The Bank had already started to address
these problems through its Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2570-PH) under which
it had established an Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF) of over US$100 million for re-
discounting commercial loans to the rural sector.   The primary aim of this
project was to carry forward the achievements of the Agricultural Credit Project,
building on the institutional changes which had been initiated under it.
C.    Project Obiectives and Description
1.03 The main objective of the project was to expand the volume of commercial
credit for agriculture and rural development in the Philippines and to enhance
the policy and institutional framework of the rural financial sector by:



-2-
(a)   supporting the development of the ALF re-discounting facility which
was by then administered by LBP, with an additional US$150 million
Countryside Loan Fund (CLF), thereby providing additional (mainly
medium- and long-term) resources to finance increased private
investment in the agricultural and rural sectors; and
(b)   institutionally and financially strengthening the rural banking
system, the Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation (PCIC), the Quedan
Guarantee Fund Board (QGFB) and LBP in order to facilitate better
access to formal credit and banking services in rural areas.
1.04 Funds were originally intended to have been provided over a period of up
to five years for:
(a)   Credit to finance private investments in agriculture and other
viable rural operations.   This credit which was to be provided
through the banking system at commercial rates was intended to be
non-directed and was to include a small pilot scheme (US$1 million
equivalent) to be channelled through selected co-operatives which
would act as financial intermediaries to support long-term
investments by their members;
(b)   Policy and Institutional Development including:
(i)   Further liberalization of banking policies including more
rural branching and the implementation of programs to
encourage re-capitalization of rural banks; and
(ii) Strengthening of existing insurance/guarantee funds with the
intention that their services would be available at market
prices; and
(c)   Studies and Training including:
(i)   Policy related studies on both formal a±          'rmal rural
sector  credit  restraints,  particularly  te    Lending  and
resource mobilization; and
(ii)  Training  for  staff  of  LBP,   Participating   Financial
Institutions (PFIs), and co-operative members and management
to enhance their ability to handle credit operations.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
1.05        The project was designed to provide continuing support for GOP's move
away from direct subsidized credit and towards a more sustainable rural financial
sector.   Initial project design work, which was started while the previous
Agricultural Finance Project (Loan 2570-PH) was still under Central Bank of the
Philippines'  (CBP)  control,  was undertaken by CBP's ALF  staff.    It was
specifically intended that new re-discounting funds would complement existing ALF
funds and so ensure continuous availability of long-term re-discounting funds for
the rural sector.   However,  largely as a result of the delays in moving
responsibility for the management of ALF from CBP to LBP, preparation of this



-3-
project was a drawn out process.   However, once the new ALF administrative
arrangements became clear in mid 1990, detailed design for the credit element of
the project was finalized by LBP with assistance from Bank preparation missions.
The financial thrust of the project was to expand the ALF re-discounting
resources by the introduction of the CLF. Both of these funds were to be managed
by a specialist unit set up in LBP. The new CLF resources were to re-discount
individual sub-loans by accredited PFIs covering up to 75% of project costs - at
least 15% being provided by beneficiaries and 10t by PFIs.
1.06        The policy and institutional development aspects of the project were
designed by Philippine Government agencies with assistance from the Bank.
Specifically implementation of changes in banking policy came under the control
of CBP (now Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)), while the Philippine Deposit
Insurance Corporation (PDIC) was the agency responsible for developing the rural
bank strengthening program, known as The Countryside Financial Institution
Enhancement Program (CFIEP). Proposals for the strengthening of both PCIC and
QGFB were developed by the agencies themselves, with some support from the Bank.
Policy studies under the project were to have been undertaken by the Agricultural
Credit Policy Council (ACPC) while training for CLF and PFI project staff was
designed to be implemented by LBP. Overall, the main project implementing agency
was LBP who was the borrower and through its President had the responsibility for
assuming overall project coordination. Linkage between LBP and other project
implementing agencies was through the CLF project steering committee which
included not only the President of LBP but also the Under Secretaries of the
Department of Finance (DOF), Department of Agriculture (DA), Deputy Governor of
the Central Bank, the Executive Director of ACPC, the Director of Agricultural
Staff of the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and representatives
of the PFIs.
E.    Prolect Implementation
1.07 Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Loan 3356-PH was signed on 11th
July 1991. Effectiveness was declared in November 1991 and the first drawn down
under the project, the transfer of US$10 million into a special account was
applied for on 30th December 1991. Implementation commenced on 2nd January 1992.
The main reason for the gap of nearly six months between the loan agreement and
the start of implementation was the delay in project effectiveness which resulted
from slow fulfillment of loan conditions concerning the further liberalization
of banking policies including:
(i)   liberalization of branching regulations in rural areas; and
(ii) approval of the RBs' capitalization program.
Fulfillment of both these conditions were within the province of the Monetary
Board, but the direct cost of the delay, reflected through commitment fees was
borne by LBP. The third condition of effectiveness concerning the approval of
and putting into effect the revised policy manual by LBP was met in a timely
fashion.
1.08 Implementation Schedule. The project was initially scheduled to start 1st
October 1991 and be completed by 30th September 1996 with an expected closing
date of 31st March 1997. Although it started three months late, it was completed
substantially ahead of time with the final draw down on 8th June 1994 being



-4-
reimbursement for sub-loans rediscounted by LBP prior to 31st March 1994. The
proposed co-operative sub-project component, however, under which US$1 million
equivalent were to have been channelled through selected co-operatives was not
implemented. Funds due to have been used by this sub-component were absorbed by
the main CLF. The main reason for this sub-component not being implemented was
that during the project period, the interest rates offered to co-operatives under
CLF were higher than the fixed rates directly offered by LBP to farmer co-
operatives under its "normal" co-operative lending program, which has access to
ARF and other below market resources.
1.09 The implementation program for the loan set out in the loan agreement which
required (i) no retailing of ALF or CLF funds by LBP; (ii) the recycling of
initial short-term credits into medium- and long-term sub-loans; (iii) the
operation of CLF on a commercial basis with profits being retained within CLF;
and (iv) the issuance of a policy manual as agreed by the Bank to be changed only
with prior concurrence of the Bank, had been adhered to. However, with respect
to (iii) above, the profit retained within CLF according to its financial
statements does not include the imputed income earned as a result of the project
which by June 1994 amounted to P142 million or about US$5.5 million.
1.10 Procurement. As this was a credit project, most procurement was done by
prudent local shopping overseen by the PFIs. CLF conducted verification surveys
of the purposes for which funds were used on a sample basis.  No significant
procurement problems were encountered under the project, and LBP end use surveys
confirmed that funds were generally used for their intended purposes.
1.11  Project Investment (Cost) and Financing.  At appraisal, an estimate of
investment to be supported by the project was made on the basis of the first use
of the funds, that is, within the credit component the US$150 million of proposed
World Bank financing was leveraged up by contributions from PFIs and sub-
borrowers. No account was taken of the fact that returned funds would also be
re-lent. In addition to this, an estimate was made of the cost of training and
studies to be provided under the project using LBP and ACPC funds. Calculated
on this basis, total project costs came to an estimated US$203.5 million (sub-
projects US$200 million, studies etc. US$3.5 million).
1.12 The actual investment in (cost of) sub-projects funded under the project
up to the end of March 1993 amounted to US$269.5 million (Table 3 Part III),
however this was based on total contributions of IBRD funds (both initial and re-
cycled use) of US$155.5 million. If this figure is scaled back to the US$150
million of new capital provided, so as to give a direct comparison with the
appraisal estimate, total project supported investment (costs) for the credit
component were US$260 million. This indicates that the Bank Loan supported 301
more investment than envisaged at appraisal. The main cause of the difference
between the actual achievement and the appraisal estimates was that the
contributions both by the sub-borrowers and PFIs to project investments (costs)
were considerably greater than envisaged. Sub-borrowers contributed 1621 more
than the projected amount and PFIs 57% more. As to type of credit, 12% was for
short-term and 88% for medium- and long-term compared with appraisal assumptions
of 33% and 67% respectively.
1.13 Disbursement. Disbursements of the loan 3356-PH are given in Table 4 Part
III.   The total loan was disbursed in substantially less than three years



compared with an appraisal estimate of six years. Although disbursements started
slightly slower than planned due to a delay in effectiveness, the rate of
disbursement was substantially faster than envisaged. By the end of the first
semester of FY93, 49% of project funds had been disbursed compared with an
appraisal estimate of 33% and a standard distribution profile figure of 14%. By
the end of FY94, the 100% actual disbursement figure compared with 60% estimated
at appraisal and 50% using a standard profile. At appraisal, allocation of loan
funds included US$50 million for short-term loans (Category 1) and US$100 million
for medium- and long-term loans (Category 2). Actual disbursements for short-
term loans amounted to only US$13.9 million. This resulted in the need for a
reallocation of loan funds and a total of US$36.1 million was switched from
Category 1 to Category 2 on November 24, 1993 and March 3, 1994.
F. Proiect Results
1.14 Overall the project was successful in meeting its objectives which were to:
(a)   assist in financing such productive facilities and resources in the
Philippines as will contribute to the economic and social
development of the country; and
(b)   to enhance the policy framework governing the rural  financial
sector.
1.15 Credit. The flow of long-term funds for development in the rural areas
which resulted from the project added significantly to the scarce long-term
resources available for investment. By 31st March 1994, 687 sub-loans had been
supported under CLF giving rise to investments of P7,006 billion (US$269
million) 1'.
1.16 Funds onlent by LBP to PFIs were initially adjusted quarterly, based on the
weighted average interest rate (WAIR) of 61-90 day certificates of time deposits
issued by the ten major commercial banks two weeks prior to the start of each
quarter. Subsequently, as a result of a drastic drop in interest rates on time
deposits, the formula was changed (from the third quarter of 1993) and the
variable rate was based on the WAIR on 91 days Treasury Bills prevailing during
the second month of the previous quarter. Borrowers were allowed to switch to
fixed interest rates at a pre-determined premium above the variable rate
depending on maturity of the loan. The levels of these premia were also raised
from the third quarter of 1993 from l%-2% to 2%-3.5%. The difference between the
nominal FX borrowing interest rate from the World Bank and the peso onlending
rate from LBP to PFIs composed a 2% LBP administration fee, a 1% guarantee fee
to Government, LBP's gross receipts tax payable to Government, and a variable
balance which was absorbed by Government as the foreign exchange risk cover fee.
Over the period January 1992 to March 1994 the lending structure of variable
loans has been approximately as follows: rate to sub-borrowers, 17.5%; LBP's
pass on rate to PFIs, 13.5%; net cost to LBP, 11.5%; gross receipts tax, 0.5%;
guarantee fee, 1%; foreign exchange fee (variable), 2.2%; cost of World Bank
funds, 7.8%.
1/    At an average rate of P26 = US$1.



-6-
1.17 Despite relatively high real interest rates, averaging almost 10% to sub-
borrowers, project funds were drawn down rapidly. Clearly, because CLF's rates
were set quarterly, but the market was constantly readjusting, the CLF interest
rate was sometimes higher, and sometimes lower than the T-Bill rate. The volumes
of lending confirmed the market's sensitivity to this. In the three quarters
when the CLF rate was above the T-Bill rate, volume averaged P200 million at P5
million per loan while in the six periods when the CLF rate was below the T-Bill
rate, an average of P573 million at P6 million per loan were disbursed.
1.18 Average maturity of loans under the project was about four years and
average sub-loan size P7.1 million (US$ 270,000), or more than three times larger
than the average loan under the previous ALF program. The average PFI interest
rate spread was 4.0%.   The rural banks had the smallest average loan size,
borrowing an average of P483,000 (US$19,000) per CLF loan from LBP, but the
largest interest rate spread, averaging 8.0% on a volume weighted basis. Average
borrowings from LBP and spreads for other institutions were: commercial banks,
P15.1 million (US$580,000) and 3.7%; thrift banks P3.2 million (US$120,000), and
4.4%, Government banks P5.2 million (US$200,000) and 4.4%; and NBFIs P28 million
(US$1.1 million) and 3.0%.
1.19 As of March 1994, 97 PFIs were accredited for CLF funding. Of these, 20
commercial banks, 1 government bank, 12 thrifts, 16 rural banks and 2 non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) were making use of the program at that date.
Among the PFIs, the commercial banks had made most use of CLF (72% of total LBP
loans), followed by the thrift banks (17%), government banks (4%) and both NBFIs
and rural banks (3% each). Compared with ALF, the share of thrifts fell, but
that of all other institutional types increased.
1.20 Much of the finance under the project was for expansion of existing
businesses, although the proportion of new projects (19% by number, and 15% by
value) was greater than under ALF (13% by number, 5% by value) .  Of the 687
project loans, 568, or 83% were for small-sized businesses projects with assets
that totalled less than P20.0 million before financing.   These businesses
accounted for a significant proportion (22%) of CLF financing. Nevertheless, the
bulk of the funds went to larger scale businesses - 30% to 96 projects for
businesses with assets between P20 and 200 million (US$ 0.8 and 7.6 million) and
48% to 23 firms with assets of P200 million and above (US$ 7.6 million and over).
1.21 Food and agro-processing absorbed the largest share (41%) of total CLF loan
amounts; followed by agriculture and aquaculture with 31t, manufacturing 15% and
services,  13%.   Among  the processing loans,  grain millers and associated
businesses were major borrowers, with beer, alcohol and sugar also important.
The main types of investment in primary production were for livestock,
particularly poultry and pigs and sugar. Manufacturing covered a wide range of
products, from aluminum foil to textiles and construction materials, while 80%



- 7 -
of services projects in were transportation. Overall, about two thirds of the
total sub-loans were for fixed assets and one third for working capital.
1.22 Lending under the project, which was determined by market demand, mainly
focussed on the more developed rural areas. Region IV (Southern Tagalog) had
both the greatest number of sub-loans (40%) and amount disbursed (28%). This was
followed by Region III  (Central Luzon)  - 201 of loans and 13% of amount
disbursed, Region VII (12% and 14%) and Region VI (8% and 18%).  Very little
investment was made in Regions I (Ilocos), V (Bicol), VIII (Eastern Visayas), XII
(Central Mindinao) and Cordillera (in total, 9% of loans, and 5% of amounts).
1.23 Because the project is only two and a half years old, there has been no ex
post evaluation of sub project profitability.   As a guide however, ex ante
financial rates of return have been reviewed on a sample2l of those loans for
which FRR calculations were made.   These indicated expected rates of return
averaging around 30% in real terms - well above the cost of money to them, which
has averaged about 10% in real terms. Economic analysis was only undertaken by
banks for projects to which sub-loans exceeded US$1 million. Reported ex ante
ERRs averaged 35% on the projects in the sample reviewed (in total, loans to
these projects amounted to about 45% of total loans). Analysis of the sample
also indicated that the sub-loans were projected to support total investment per
job averaging P2.5 million (US$95,000) for rediscounting amounts of over P50
million; P850,000 (US$33,000) for rediscounting amounts P5-50 Million; and
P340,000 (US$13,000) for rediscounting amounts below P5 million.  Overall, an
estimated 9,000 new jobs are now anticipated to result directly from CLF funded
projects.   This number excludes both  (i) the jobs created as part of the
investment process, e.g. in the construction industry; and (ii) indirect
employment, e.g in industries supplying project investments, such as feed milling
in the case of livestock investments. This estimate of job creation is below the
appraisal estimate of 25,000 new jobs. The main reason appears to be that the
larger borrowers, which absorbed most of the funds have tended to invest in
capital intensive projects, including some investments, for example in the
textiles sub-sector which were aimed specifically at labor saving.
1.24 The project involved a substantial number of PFIs and was not highly
concentrated. Consequently, CLF's impact on most individual PFIs was relatively
modest. A review undertaken by LBP indicated that the CLF had a positive impact
on the profitability of all eleven PFIs reviewed; it accounted for less than 1%
of net income in the case of commercial banks, 2-8% with thrift banks, 3% for the
NBFI reviewed, but considerably more for rural banks. The average spread of 4%
which PFIs have been able to make on CLF loans has been attractive to them
provided they are able to use CLF to expand their loan portfolios.
1.25  The financial impact of CLF on LBP can be deduced from Table 5.  In the
full financial year 1993, LBP earned P76 million from CLF, after taking account
of imputed income before allowing for incremental staff costs. The latter are
thought to be about P4 million giving a net contribution to LBP profit of just
over P70 million. This is quite significant and is equivalent to about 8% of
2/    The sample comprised all sub-loans of over P50 million (US$1.9 million),
and 33% of sub-loans P5-50 million (US$0.2-1.9 million).  For sub-loans
below P5 million (US$0.2 million), from which a 10% sample was taken FRRs
were not estimated during sub-loan processing.



- 8 -
LBP's 1993 net profit.   Figures for the first six months of 1994 indicate a
likely greater profit contribution with net benefits for the last year amounting
to over I80 million.       Collection of CLF supported loans by LBP has been
excellent. Of particular significance is the very low level of past due loans.
These represent only 0.02% of the outstanding LBP CLF portfolio. The covenants
under the project limiting Government's outstanding payables to LBP, and the
agreement with the Bank seeking redefinition of LBP's relationship with agrarian
reform land ownership, bonds and mortgages have helped LBP become a more self-
sustainable institution and have assisted in protecting it from political
interference. The one negative effect of CLF on LBP has been LBP's exclusion
from retailing CLF resources.   This has resulted in some client loss,  as
businesses which had been LBP's clients, but which wished to borrow long term for
rural investments have accessed CLF resources through LBP's competitors. This
has tended to curtail development of LBP's commercial rural lending.   It is
intended to address this problem through establishment of a separate Retail
Co-financing Fund which will be available for LBP to lend to its own customers
under the proposed second rural credit project.
1.26 The potential cost to Government of the Agricultural Credit Project is the
foreign exchange risk. It will not be clear whether or not the guarantee fees and
the foreign exchange risk fees which it levies will be sufficient until the loan
is fully repaid, in 2012. By 30th June 1994, Government had earned P102 million
(US$3.9 million) in foreign exchange risk fees and P53 million (US$2.0 million)
in guarantee fees or a total of US$6 million. However, at that date, the peso
had devalued to P27.00 = US$1 compared with an average when the loan was drawn
down of P25.83 = US$1. The effective potential cost to government as a result
of devaluation of the peso against the dollar by 30th June 1994 was therefore
about US$6.5 million. In addition, up that date there had also been a potential
loss on cross currency risk of US$9.7 million, resulting in an 'unrealized open
loss', net of fees collected of about US$10.2 million2l. To date the open loss
has not involved any cash outflow - indeed, from a cash flow standpoint, GOP has
benefitted from the project directly by the US$6 million of fees collected.
Furthermore, the 'open loss' is a volatile figure and by August 31, a hardening
of the peso against the dollar4l together with the collection of fees during
July and August had reduced the "unrealized open loss" net of fees collected to
about US$5.7 million21.   Besides the direct impact of guaranteeing foreign
exchange on GOP's cash flow, the project has considerable indirect benefits to
GOP's cash flow. These include: (i) the gross receipts tax collected on interest
both from LBP and the PFIs totalling perhaps US$1.5 million annually; (ii) the
incremental income tax on the incremental profits of the financial institutions
wholesaling project funds; and (iii) the incremental tax on the economic activity
generated as a result of the project.
1.27 Policy Impact. Enhancement of the policy framework governing the rural
financial sector has been brought about by the liberalization of branching and
strengthening of rural banks through additional capitalization and debt
reduction. Overall, the financial position of the rural banks was substantially
3/    These figures do not take account of the benefit to Government of income
resulting from the investment of fees collected which by these dates would
have been worth less than US$1 million to them.
4/    Exchange rate on September 2nd 1994 was US$1 = P26.34.



-9-
stronger in March 1993 than in September 1991.  In September 1991, of 773 rural
Banks, 32% were classified as unsatisfactory, 35% as needing improvement and 33%
as good performing Banks, by 1993, the relative proportions had improved to 19%,
45% and 36%. Over the same eighteen month period, Total Capital had increased
by 40% from P2.352 million to P3.273 million. The impact of the project on PCIC
and QGFB has been minor. Although it is managed by professional and competent
staff, and there has been a significant improvement in administrative efficiency
between 1989 and 1993, (average premium collected per staffer rose from P270,000
to over P600,000) PCIC remains a weak institution. This is largely because of
continued non payment of GOP's share of crop insurance premia and a Government
imposed freeze on premium rates. Together these government interventions have
prevented PCIC from implementing its policy of becoming financially self
supporting and have resulted in a serious deterioration of its prudent insurance
capacity. The former QGFB was converted to a corporation, QUEDANCOR in April,
1992. However, it has not yet raised its guarantee fee rates to levels which
would be self sustaining, nor has it established a grain trading center as
envisaged during project preparation.   Overall, no major enhancements to the
rural finance sector have stemmed from these institutions during the project
period.
1.28  Under the project, training was to be carried out by LBP to include:  (i)
training of project related staff within the borrower and participating financial
institutions; and (ii) training of selected co-operative staff and management.
A specific area of concentration was concerned with environmental aspects of sub-
projects. Six environmental seminars/workshops which were attended by LBP staff,
government agencies and local and foreign consultants were organized under the
project and involved some 322.   Training specifically on the CLF program
guideline policies and procedures was given to PFIs loan officers and to LBP's
own employees. A total of 263 participants attended nine seminars both in Metro
Manila and the regions. LBP has also developed a two year management development
program for training of RBs in the key areas of credit process, internal control
and operations management. This two year program which started in July 1993 aims
to enhance the internal capability of 216 RBs. As of 30th June 1994, 100 LBP
assisted RBs were trained involving 398 participants nationwide. Considerable
resources have also been put into co-operative training by LBP over the project
period.  A series of five training modules have been developed and 103 local
training teams established nationwide in co-ordination with LBP's field offices
and partner NGOs. Training was given to 3,886 co-operatives in 1992, and 3,259
in 1993. However, despite the heavy training input to co-operatives, the quality
of LBP's co-operative loan portfolio has deteriorated over the past three years.
1.29 It was envisaged at appraisal that ACPC would carry out policy studies.
After some delay, it was agreed that studies (i) to look at the informal sector
for rural finance; and (ii) focussed on the demand for term credit in the rural
sector, would be prepared.   These were not adequately undertaken during the
project period, largely as a result of lack of financing. The original agreement
had been for ACPC to provide the professional manpower but for LBP to underwrite
the other costs of the studies.   The two agencies failed to come to a sound
working agreement on this.
G.    Project Sustainability
1.30 The CLF model of re-discounting of loans to the rural sector is certainly



- 10 -
a sustainable activity. The project has been operated at real interest rates
with excellent credit recovery.   LBP has developed a sound wholesale lending
operation which  is capable  of being  substantially expanded.    To achieve
expansion, or even to stay at the present real level, however, will require
mobilization of additional medium- and long-term funds. These are envisaged both
through a further bank follow-on project and mobilization of domestic resources
through the bond market or sale of loans. The policy of setting interest rates
substantially in advance and having fixed spreads between variable and fixed
interest rates is a poor approximation to market conditions. As the Philippine
financial markets develop, it will be important to set variable rates more often
and more closely in line with movements in the market place and to set fixed
rates based on market conditions rather than pre-determined formulae.   The
potential, but unrealized, net subsidy to be provided by GOP through covering
foreign exchange risk for a fee has resulted mainly from the recent devaluation
of the dollar against the Banks' currency pool. Only after the loan is fully
repaid will it become clear whether GOP actually has provided a cash subsidy to
the project.
H.    Bank Performance
1.31 Bank performance under the project was satisfactory. Timely and adequate
supervision missions were conducted to ensure the program objectives were
achieved and response/approval of loans beyond LBP's free limit were handled
expeditiously. Some minor problems were experienced at the end of the loan draw
down period when deductions were made from draw down requests to cover initial
funds in the special account, but the reason for which was not adequately
explained to the borrowers' staff.
I.    Borrower Performance
1.32  LBP, the borrower, performed well under the project with the only minor
criticism concerning lack of effective co-ordination with ACPC over the studies
which were to have been funded by them.   The continued comparatively high
concentration of loans in the more developed rural areas may partly result from
under-funding of the CLF unit within LBP and difficulties in retaining skilled
personnel because of the restriction on LBP salaries. With the single exception
of one small Rural Bank which had been previously accredited under the CB-ALF
program LBP's  monitoring and review of PFIs, which constitute their direct
clients, and therefore risk, was extremely thorough. However they could usefully
have concentrated more resources, had they been available, on the monitoring of
individual  sub-loans.    The  important  issue  of  strengthening  CLF  through
increasing staff numbers and professional skills and expanding its budget is
currently being addressed within LBP as part of the preparation of the Second
Rural Credit Project.
J.    Project Relationship
1.33  With respect to the Credit Component, the project relationship between LBP
and PFIs was generally good. However, the change in interest rate policy during
implementation of the project was properly viewed by the PFIs as undesirable in
that their clients, who had signed up for loans assuming that interest rates



- 11 -
would be linked to one indicator, found that the indicator had changed adversely
as far as they were concerned. Despite this, however, most PFIs continued to
remain involved with CLF loans. The lack of effective financial linkages between
either the Bank or the borrower and other intended project participants, PCIC and
QUEDANCOR may have caused less than satisfactory performance in the strengthening
of these two agencies. The LBP, ACPC relationship was less than satisfactory
under the project, but a new agreement has been drawn up between them to provide
for better co-ordination in future.
K.    Documentation and Data
1.34 The loan agreement was adequate. The staff appraisal report provided a
useful framework for both the Bank and LBP to follow, and LBP prepared a
comprehensive Part II of this report in a timely fashion. Quarterly reports from
LBP to the Bank were generally on time and contained sound data on lending and
training operations.   The main area in which project data was  less than
satisfactory, concerned the financial and economic performance of sub-projects.
This is largely a result of the rapid disbursement of funds under the project and
therefore most of the results of project investments not yet being clear. The
recommendation made in the PCR of the preceding Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2570-PH) that in future economic analysis needs to be based on continuous in
depth monitoring of a sample of project sub-loans was not taken up by the CLF
implementation unit. However, within the proposed Second Rural Finance Project
this issue is being addressed with additional economists and financial analysts
being allocated to the CLF unit.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE1
BACKGROUND
1.          The Rural Finance Project I (Loan 3356-PH) was intended to expand the
volume of commercial credit for agriculture and rural development, and to enhance
the policy and institutional framework of the rural financial sector in the
Philippines.   The project was to:  (a) channel funds through LBP to finance
private investments and seasonal production credit in agricultural and other
viable projects in the rural areas through qualified retail PFIs; (b) induce
financial institutions to attend to the credit needs of the rural areas more
efficiently, and to facilitate better access to private banks in rural areas; and
(c) enhance the access of rural borrowers to formal credit sources. The project
facilitated a wider participation in rural lending of financial intermediaries
which included commercial, thrift, rural banks (RBs), specialized government
bank, as well as selected non-banks performing quasi-banking functions (NBQBs).
2.          The project, originally intended to be implemented over a period of
five years, was composed of the following components: (a) Credit to finance
seasonal production and for investments in fixed assets and incremental working
capital.   Credit would be provided through the banking system for a broad
spectrum of agri/aquaculture, food and agro-processing, manufacturing and
service-oriented rural investments. Under this components, US$1.0 million would
be made available to selected cooperatives under an Experimental Pilot Plan to
support  the  long  term  investments  of  their  members.    LBP  would  be  the
implementing agency of the credit component; (b) Policy and Institutional
Development which included: (i) further liberalization of banking policies
concerning the opening of new branches in rural areas, merging of banks in rural
areas, ceiling on the maximum shareholding of a single investor (to be
implemented by BSP) and other inducements to banks in good standing to
recapitalize rural banks with equity deficiencies (to be implemented by PDIC);
and (ii) strengthening of existing insurance/guarantee funds, so they will be in
a sound position to provide farmers and banks with adequate insurance and
guarantee facilities at market prices (to be undertaken by PCIC and QGFB); and
(c) Studies and Training which included: (i) policy related studies on (formal
and informal) rural credit constraints, with special emphasis on term lending and
resource mobilization (to be implemented by ACPC); and (ii) training for CLF and
PFIs project staff and for cooperative members and management to enhance their
ability to handle credit operations (to be implemented by LBP).
3.          Apart from the basic loan covenants,  the Loan Agreement and the
Guarantee Agreement provided for a number of special covenants relating to:
short-term credit; institutional strengthening programs (LBP, PCIC, QGFB, and
RBs) policy studies to be undertaken; staff training; accounts and audit; sub-
loan approval; the CLF Policy Manual; interest rates; PFIs accreditation
1/    This is a summary of the Project Completion Report dated August 26, 1994
prepared Jby the Program Lending Department of LBP.   The full document
(about 45 pages long), which provides a comprehensive historical account
of the project, is available in the Project File at the Bank's Asia
Information Center.



- 1 3 -
criteria; monitoring and evaluation; and the Special Account. By and large the
performance criteria were complied with satisfactorily, except for one study
which was not undertaken mainly due to lack of financing.
IMPLEMENTATION
The Credit Component
4.          CLF Operating Policies and Procedures.  CLF operations were strictly
carried out on the basis of policies and procedures established in a Policy
Manual of Operations, which were previously approved by the Bank and LBP's Board
of Directors. Policy revisions during program implementation were made whenever
necessary to respond more effectively to significant developments which would
affect the successful implementation of the program. All major policy changes
were duly approved by LBP and the Bank, and reported to the CLF Steering
Committee.
5.          Eligibility Criteria.  CLF provided funding to seasonal production
sub-loans of up to one year (up to 18 months for sugar) ; and medium or long term
investment financing for the establishment of new enterprises or expansion of
existing  ones  for  incremental  capacity  to  be  generated.    Projects  in
agri/aquaculture, food or agro-processing, manufacturing and service-oriented
economic ventures were qualified for CLF financing provided they were located in
and were directly beneficial to rural areas.
6.           Interest rates.  Two interest rate options were made available to the
sub-borrowers and the PFIs, i.e., variable and fixed rate. All short term loan
availments with tenures of one year or less, had interest rates on variable basis
only. for medium to long term loans, the PFIs and the sub-borrowers were given
a choice to select one of the two interest rate options and a one time chance to
convert from variable to fixed, but not vice versa. Initially, the pass-on rate
to the PFI for the variable rate option was defined as the Weighted Average
Interest Rate (WAIR) on 61-90 day Certificate of Time Deposit (CTD) of 10 major
commercial banks (prevailing during the week, two weeks prior to the start of
each quarter) as published by the BSP. For the fixed rate option, the pass-on
rate was the WAIR prevailing on loan booking date or the conversion date from
variable to fixed, plus a premium determined as follows:
Term                           Premium
Over 1 year to 5 years         +1.0%
Over 5 years to 8 years        +1.5%
Over 8 years                   +2.0%
7.          However, a subsequent review and amendment of the pricing structure
was necessary with the drastic drop in interest rates of time deposits.   A
continued usage of the CTD WAIR as basis for pricing would mean that LBP would
be operating at a loss since the applicable WAIR would not be enough to cover the
basic cost of borrowing. Effective the third quarter of 1993, the variable rate
was based ont he WAIR on 91-day Treasury Bills prevailing during the second month
of the preceding quarter. Premia for the fixed rate option were likewise revised
as follows:



- 14 -
Term                           Premium
Over 1 year to 3 years         +2.0%
Over 3 years to 5 years        +2.5%
Over 5 years to 8 years        +3.0%
Over 8 years                   +3.5%
8.          The pass-on rates to the sub-borrowers were negotiated between the
PFIs and the sub-borrowers. The spreads retained by PFIs on CLF-assisted sub-
loans were not regulated so as to allow flexibility in providing an acceptable
return commensurate to the credit risks taken by these financial intermediaries.
9.          Foreign Exchange Risk.  LBP onlent the loan proceeds exclusively in
pesos and the entire foreign exchange and cross currency risks were assumed by
the Government against a market-based variable fee paid by LBP. The FXRC fee was
computed as the difference between the pass-on variable rate and premium to PFIs
and the sum of the Bank's lending rate, 2% LBP administration fee, 1% guarantee
fee payable to the Government, and applicable Gross Receipts Tax.
10.         PFI  Accreditation  Criteria.    The  accreditation  of  financial
institutions under the CLF was undertaken by LBP's Financial Institutions
Department for the commercial banks, specialized government bank, non-bank
financial institutions and Metro Manila based thrift banks. LBP's Countryside
Financial Institutions Group, on the other hand, handled the accreditation of
rural banks and thrift banks with head office based in the provinces. The PFIs
solvency, profitability, reputation of owners and competence of management, and
quality of assets particularly their loan portfolio were the main areas of
consideration in the accreditation process. Compliance with various regulations
of the BSP in the case of banks and of the Securities and Exchange Commission for
non-banks were also taken into account in the evaluation.
11.         At the start of the program, land Bank initially accredited 67 PFIs.
As of March 31, 1994, a total o 97 PFIs were already accredited - 25 commercial
banks, 16 thrift banks, 5 non-bank financial institutions, 49 rural banks and 2
government banks.
12.         Financing Mix.  The CLF could finance up to 75% of the subproject
cost.  For each subproject, the PFI would finance at least 10% of the financing
package from its own funds and the sub-borrower would provide at least 15% of
total project cost. The sub-borrowers provided more than the required 15% equity
participation with P2,117 million or 30% of the total project cost. The PFIs
also exceeded the minimum 10% financial contribution by providing P845 million
which is 12% of the total project cost. Thus, the CLF/IBRD funding contribution
was significantly reduced to 58%- of the total project cost.  Moreover, the actual
investment, under the project (total project cost) , substantially increased from
the projected P5,213 million (US$200.5 million at an average exchange rate of
US$1:P 26) to P7,006 million, or an excess of P1,793 million or 34%.
13.         Environmental Protection. Sub-borrowers were required to comply with
existing  environmental  rules  and  regulations.    Proof  of  application  for
Environmental Exemption Certificate (EEC) or Environmental Compliance Certificate
(ECC) with the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) of the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources or copies of EEC/ECC if already issued were
required prior to any CLF loan release.



- 15 -
14.        . Disbursement.   A Special Account with Citibank,  New York was
established and an initial deposit of US$10 million was made by the Bank into the
Special Account. Each withdrawal from the Special Account was fully accounted
for by sub-loan disbursements eligible under the project. Withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures.
15.         Procurement.  Procurement of goods, works and services financed with
loan funds were strictly on the basis of procedures customary for development
finance operations. However, as there were no applicable purchases or contract
above US$5 million for any subproject, procurement by International Competitive
Bidding was not exercised during the project implementation.
16.         Monitoring, Reporting and Audit.   Based on agreed formats,  LBP
regularly submitted to the Bank quarterly progress reports on project
implementation. Also, the Financial Statements of the CLF, the Special Account
and Statement of Expenditures were audited annually ny the Commission on Audit
and the Bank was furnished with a copy of the audit reports.
17.         LBP Supervision of PFIs.  PFIs were continuously monitored to keep
tab of developments on their operations and their performance was gauged against
the industry standards. Risk monitoring for PFIs included the semestral analysis
of financial performance in which key financial indicators based on
interim/published financial statements were analyzed. PFIs were likewise asked
to submit Aging of Loan Arrearages to assess quality of their loan portfolio.
The CLF credit lines of PFIs were reviewed and renewed annually as part of CLF
credit administration and supervision of PFIs.   Indicators based on latest
financial statements plus all risk monitoring activities were periodically
evaluated and depending on the outcome of the annual review, the CLF line was
either maintained, increased, reduced or at worst, terminated/cancelled.
PROJECT RESULTS
A. The Credit Component
18.           LBP was able to fully disburse the fund in record two and a half
years ahead of schedule. This could be attributed to the aggressive marketing
efforts of the CLF Unit Staff who capitalized on the attractive features of the
program such as the wide coverage of eligible projects, the simplified loan
documentation and processing requirements, the availability of medium/long term
repayment and fixed pricing option. Moreover, the program ran parallel, if not
surpassed, the features of the other wholesale lending programs in the market.
20. Socio-Economic Impact. The program addressed the financing requirements of
687 projects with loan amount aggregating P4,043 million. The CLF promoted the
development of small and medium enterprises. Most of the subprojects financed
by CLF (568 accounts or 83%) belonged to small-asset size sub-borrowers with
assets before financing amounting to P20 million or less. Data further showed
that there were 583 sub-loans each amount to less than P5 million while there
were only 10 sub-loans amounting to more than 50 million each. The program also
successfully encouraged medium and long term investments that expanded productive
capacity in the agricultural and rural sectors. Seventy six percent of the Fund
(P3,074 million) went to 536 medium term projects with loan tenor of over 1 year
to 5 years while 15% (P599 million) financed long term projects with maturity of
over 5 years. Only 9% (P370 million) went to short term loans with maturity of



- 16 -
one year or less. As to purpose of loan, 55% or P2,204 million went to fixed
asset acquisition, 18% or P741 million went to a combination of fixed asset
acquisition and working capital.  The remaining 27% (P1,098 million) went to
incremental working capital.
21.         CLF improves the access of agricultural and rural borrowers to formal
credit  sources.   The program also promoted financial  institutions  active
participation in providing a wide range of banking services in the rural areas,
including credit and resource mobilization. The rural banks and the thrift banks
were very instrumental in channeling the CLF funds to the countryside. of the
total subprojects financed, 242 were coursed through the RBs, followed by thrift
banks with 214 accounts. However, based on the amount released, P2,922 million
or 72% were disbursed through commercial banks. This reflected that loans to
large companies with bigger financing requirements were packaged by commercial
banks who have the financial resources and technical capabilities to service the
financing needs of large sub-project.
22.         CLF data also showed that most PFIs preferred to lend to companies
with established track record of profitable operations.   Of the 687 projects
financed, 556 expanded their existing capacities while only 131 were newly
established or start-up business ventures. Based on total loan amounts, P574
million or only 14% went to start-up projects while P3,469 million financed
expansion projects of existing business establishments. also, it was noted that
generally, new projects started with relatively small resources, mostly with an
asset size of less than P20 million.
23.         There was no pre-determined allocation of the fund according to
industry nor geographical location of subprojects. Results, however, showed that
CLF financed more accounts belonging to the agriculture and aquaculture industry
with 53% of the total accounts, followed by food/agro-processing (20%), Services
(18%0 and manufacturing (9%). But based on the total amount released, food and
agro industries captured the biggest share of P1,646 million (41%).
24.         All the twelve regions and the Cordillera Autonomous Region were
benefitted by the Program. Region IV (Southern Tagalog) captured the highest in
terms of number (273 sub-projects) and amount of loan (P1,119 million).  This
could be attributed to the comparative advantage of lodating the production site
near the main market, which was Metro Manila and the progressive status of
economic activities in said area. The next region was Region 6 (Western Visayas)
- P713 million (18%), followed by Region 7 (Central Visayas) - P581 million (14%)
and Region 3 (Central Luzon) - P517 million (13%).
25.         A sample of 100 sub-borrowers2, representing 15% of the accounts
financed and 54% of the total loan granted, was surveyed to form the basis for
reporting the socio-economic impact of the project. The samples were distributed
as follows: 60 sub-borrowers with CLF loan upto P5 million, 30 sub-borrowers
with CLF loan of more than P5 million up to P50 million and 10 sub-borrowers with
CLF loan of more than P50 million. The sample was composed of 41 agri/aqua, 20
food/agri-processing, 13 manufacturing and 26 service oriented subprojects. From
this sample alone, 2,648 new jobs were indicated to have been created, dispersed
2/    The socio-economic impact of the subproiects were not captured in the
existing CLF I database. We are currently collating our data to increase
the sample of the subproiects financed.



- 17 -
all over the different regions of the country.  The relatively low increment
could be explained by the facts that (i) most of the subprojects financed
involved expansion of existing operations with minimum requirement for additional
labor inputs;  (ii) most of  the new projects were not labor intensive  (e.g.
transportation facilities, piggery, ricemilling).  Nevertheless, the new jobs
indicated referred only to direct employment.   Thousands of jobs indirectly
related to the project were also created during the various phases of
construction/installation of fixed assets financed by the program thereby
contributing to the poverty alleviation program of the government. Based on the
same sample, additional government revenues amounting to P1,350 million per annum
were expected to have been generated from the projects financed by CLF.  The
amount may be quite substantial as available data included revenue generation
attributable to other factors (e.g., increase in projected sales and improved
production efficiency of existing capacities).
26.         CLF Financial Performance.   In a record time of two years, CLF
resources expanded over seven fold. From P532 million in February 1992 (start
of CLF I loan releases), total resources grew to as much as P4,113 million as of
March 31, 1994 (full disbursement of US$150 million equivalent) largely due to
the expansion of the CLF loan portfolio and the full utilization of the US$150
million CLF loan from IBRD.   From February 1992 to December 31, 1992, loan
portfolio grew by as much as 3273%. This was further sustained in 1993 whereby
loan portfolio increased by almost 100%. The tremendous growth could be largely
associated with the fast rate of CLF utilization by the PFIs given the attractive
features of the program and the aggressive marketing efforts of the CLF Unit.
Correspondingly, total liabilities increased with the additional drawdowns to
finance relending, i.e., from P540 million as of February 1992 to P4,106 million
as of March 31, 1994.  For the year 1992, CLF's income barely coped with the
program's expenses as there was substantial payment for commitment fee on the
undrawn loan balance. Income dramatically improved in 1993 to as much as P76
million as the loan portfolio doubled form the previous year and the commitment
fee payable to the World Bank decreased by more than 50%.
27.         Financial Impact on LBP.  The CLF Program provided LBP with more
loanable funds to finance projects consistent with its social mandate of
countryside development.   Borrowings from IBRD as of December 31, 1992 and
December 31, 1993 amounted to P1,860 million and P3,340 million, respectively
which represented 3.75%  and 3.73% of LBP's total resources.   As to loan
portfolio, outstanding CLF loan balances as of December 31, 1992 and December 31,
1993 amounting to P1,648 million and P3,168 million represented 8.8% and 10% of
LBP's total loan portfolio, respectively.
28.         Financial Impact on PFIs.   The financial impact of CLF on the
profitability of 11 PFIs, most of which were leading availers, was assessed from
1992 to 1993.  The samples included 6 RBs, 2 Commercial Banks (KBs), 2 Thrift
Banks and 1 Non Bank Financial Institution (NBFI).  In general, all 11 PFIs
benefitted from the program but the incremental effect on the net income was
greater for smaller sized PFIs.   The percentage of CLF income vis-a-vis net
income is less than 1% for KBs, 2t to 8% for thrift banks, about 3% for NBFI and
2% to 65% for RBs. Likewise, contribution of CLF loans to total loan portfolio
was higher for smaller sized PFIs such as RBs (3% to 14*), NBFI (more than 10%)
thrift banks (2% to 5%) than KBs (about l*).
29.         Cooperative   Sub-Component.        Under   the   Cooperative   Sub-
component/Experimental Pilot Plan, US$1.0 million equivalent would be channeled



- 18 -
through selected cooperatives as financial intermediaries to support the long
term investment  of their members.    This  sub-component,  however,  was not
implemented in view of the following: (a) small farmers could hardly appreciate
variable pricing vis-a-vis fixed pricing; (b)The interest rates offered by CLF
were higher than the fixed rate (e.g. 12% p.a. + 2* supervision fee) directly
offered by LBP to farmer cooperatives.
B. Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component
30.         Policy Actions.  Further liberalization of banking policies in the
rural areas as outlined under the project were carried out satisfactorily by the
central bank. These include the following policy issues: (i)the liberalization
of bank branching policies under BSP Circular No. 1390 dated May 19, 1993
virtually eliminated the bank categorization by service area by focussing on the
unimpaired paid-in capital position of the institution as basis for bank
branching; (ii) the merger of rural banks as a means of strengthening countryside
financial institutions was being encouraged through the grant of incentives such
as counterpart capital infusion and other financial assistance. However, there
was a precondition for such incentives, i.e., the merger or consolidation should
involve at least one undercapitalized bank. In the case of thrift banks, it was
necessary that the main operations of the merging banks should be in the
countryside; and (iii) on the limits on the maximum shareholdings of a single
investor in a distressed RB, no ceiling was imposed on the amount that may be
infused in such a bank.
31.         Rural  Bank  Strengthening  Program.    The  countryside  Financial
Institution Enhancement Program (CFIEP) was formulated to help improve credit
delivery in the rural sector through a capital build-up program for banks in the
countryside.   Under the Program, RBs were granted incentives by the three
implementing institutions, BSP, LBP and PDIC under three modules: (i) under
Module I, BSP provided an effective 50% discount on eligible debts redeemed. The
Two-For-One Module of the CFI Enhance Program attracted a total of 144 complete
applications of which 86% or 124 was approved by BSP resulting in debt reduction
in the rural banking sector of at least P237 million plus cash collection by BSP
in accrued interest of P31 million. RB debt redemption was expected to slightly
increase with some of those with recently approved and pending application s(20
of them) likely to take advantage of the automatic 90-day extension from receipt
of BSP approval to apply for additional incentive to fully redeem their eligible
debts with BSP; (ii) under Module II, LBP provided an equity investment matching
the amount infused under the Program. This module was quiet popular, particularly
among the more successful RBs.   This provided incentives to RBs to increase
capital including those which have no eligible past due loans with the BSP. LBP
approved 141 applications under the program involving P214 million in fresh
private capital. Assuming approval of the 29 pending applications said amount
is expected to exceed P300 million as LBP's P300 million appropriation for the
program has been almost fully allocated. RBs which availed of Module I but did
not apply under Module II were either not comfortable with having an LBP
representative in their Board of Directors and/or not in need of additional
loanable funds; and (iii) Module III provided through PDIC a loan facility for
merger or consolidation of RBs. Out of the ten (10) applications received under
the Mergers and Consolidation Module, only one, the Davao merger (Network Rural
Bank of Southern Philippines or Network Bank) involving 6 RBs secured all the
necessary approval s from BSP, LBP, PDIC and SEC.  Said merger fully retired
their collective arrearages with BSP amounting to P16 million.   LBP equally



- 19 -
matched the irdeemed amount through investment in preferred shares. On top of
this, the merged bank infused an additional P3 million. Of those with pending
merger applications, only three (3) consisting of seven (7) RBs ere deemed likely
to materialize, entailing an aggregate financial assistance of approximately P50
million, excluding that for Network Bank. PDIC felt that rural bankers are not
inclined to diluting their ownership as evidenced by the low turnout of
applicants for Module II and the very slow compliance with application
requirements. PDIC reported that they have yet to agree with BSP on the terms,
particularly the interest rate, of the relending fund in order to effect the
initial release of P114 million out of the Special Fund for the Mindanao Network
Bank.
32.         The program gained general acceptance among rural bankers.  However,
based on the PDIC report, a substantial number opted to pass off the incentives
under CFIEP as they were looking forward to the debt-to-equity conversion
provision under the Rural Banking Act of 1992 (RA No. 7353) as a "cheaper
alternative" to increasing capital. The Rural Banking Act of 1992 provided RBs
a 5-year tax exemption, an expanded coverage of allied undertaking, and, to those
qualified, the authority to offer demand deposit and to accept local government
deposits. Said law also provided for the conversion of RB past due loans with
BSP into equity of a GFI to be matched by private capital through staggered
infusion over a 15-year period, beginning on the fourth year.
33.         Quedan and Rural Credit Guarantee Corporation (OUEDANCOR) formerly
Quedan Guarantee Fund Board (QGFB). Two of the five basic elements constituted
the  QGFB  strengthening  program  were  fully  implemented.    These  are:  (i)
modification of its legal status to that of a stock corporation with the ability
to mobilize private equity for the expansion of its operations and to provide
credit guarantee facilities for a wider range of economic activities (including
production inputs, farm equipment, post harvest facilities, working capital and
inventory). This was fully completed with RA 7393, approved on April 13, 1992;
and (ii) the implementation of a satellite warehouse pilot project and the
expansion of its support to small farmers through additional use of National Food
Authority (NFA) storage facilities and other leasing arrangements. This has been
carried out through a satellite warehouse project which is being implemented
under the program called Carp-Barangay Marketing Center.   The other three
elements of the program have not been implemented for various reasons. These are
as follows: (i) Quedan support "for small farmers through additional use of NFA
storage facilities" was covered by a new NFA program called Grains Inventory
Financing Technique (GIFT) whereby NFA receives farmers' palay deposit, issues
a warehouse receipt (quedan) to serve as collateral for a 6-month marketing loan
with LBP; (ii) the reason for not increasing QUEDANCOR guarantee fees to fully
cover, by 1994, its operating costs and expected losses is that QUEDANCOR would
be out of the market if its charge more than the newly created guarantee programs
(new NFA GIFT program and DAR-GFSME guarantee program for CARP Landlords); and
(iii) the proposed Grains Trading Center was disapproved by the previous
Department of Agriculture Secretary. The concept might be implemented through the
Cooperative Trading Center (CTC) being spearheaded by the Federation of Free
Farmers,  Inc.   QUEDANCOR is encouraging its client s(farmer coops and rice
retailers) to link up with CTC.
34.         Philippine  Crop  Insurance  Corporation  (PCIC).    Three  factor
constituted the PCIC strengthening program, as outlined in the following
paragraphs.



- 20 -
35.         Modification of its premium structure by adopting a variable rates
by regions, reflecting empirically determined variable risks, and gradually
increase in its premium level toward full cost recovery by farmers and the
respective lending institutions and elimination of all subsidies by end of 1995.
The premium restructuring was approved by the President of the Philippines on
July 25, 1990 for implementation over five years starting 1991 until 1995. Under
the five-year (1991-1995) phasing out program for government premium subsidy for
rice and corn, the share of government in the premium is being gradually shifted
to participating farmers until such share is completely phased out by end of
1995. This means that by 1996, there shall be no more government premium subsidy
and that the entire premium in the range of 8.2%-16.5% of amount of cover for
rice and 8.5%-22.1 for corn shall be shouldered by the farmers (and lending
institutions in the case of borrowing farmers) . However, as early as 1992, there
was already a strong clamor from concerned sectors for the rollback of the
premium share of farmers to the 1990 level (i.e. prior to the implementation of
the phasing-out program) or at the very least freezing said share of farmers at
1992 level to keep crop insurance premium affordable to them. Based on this,
PCIC requested Malacanang for the freezing of the regional rates for rice and
corn at 1992 level. Said request to freeze the regional rates at 1992 level was
approved by the President of the Philippines effective until 1994 along with the
directive to provide avenues for reducing the cost of insurance to affordable
levels by small farmers with only a minimum amount of government premium subsidy.
36.         The introduction of insurance options to cover both uncontrollable
(typhoons, floods, and droughts) and controllable (pests and diseases) risks, the
latter at higher premium levels. A proposal to repackage the existing multi-risk
cover for rice and corn crops to a standard cover against natural calamities only
and an extended cover against limited pests and diseases of epidemic proportion,
was submitted to the office of the President in 1993.  The idea was to give
insuring farmers options to purchase only protection for risks that are not
manageable and thus, provide them means for insurance cost reduction. Under the
repackaged cover, the total premium rates for the standard cover (ranging from
4t-7t of amount of cover for rice and 6%-11% for corn) and the extended cover
against pests and diseases (ranging from 0.5%-1t of amount of cover for rice and
0.56-2.25% for corn) are lower than the would-be phased-out rates when the
premium freeze shall have expired. Nonetheless, some form of premium subsidy is
still necessary to keep the crop insurance within the reach of target clientele.
Conservative estimates put the amount at P50 million per annum. Said figure may
be viewed as a trade-off between the cost to the government of providing crop
insurance program to the economy in terms of increased productivity, particularly
as regards staple crops (rice and corn) which are the main sectors serviced by
the program. PCIC's crop insurance cover for plantation-type high value crops
was envisioned to generate surplus reserve to cross-subsidize the small-farmers
portfolio over the long term. This will obviate the need for indefinite subsidy
under the program. In the meantime, however, PCIC reportedly needs additional
capacity (higher capitalization) to write risks under the commercial portfolio.
According to PCIC, the Department of Finance has given word that it is endorsing
the proposed repackaged cover subject to resolution of certain issues revolving
around the amount of government premium subsidy under the new scheme.
37.         Maintain a prudent ratio of total risks to liquidity assets. PCIC
would obtain from LBP P250 million in preferred shares and from the Government
of the Philippines about P220 million of overdue contributions to crop insurance.
The latter would be provided by the conversion of Special Revolving Trust Fund
(SRTF) earnings into Governments equity investment.   PCIC has an authorized



- 21 -
capital stock of P750 million divided into P500 million common stocks and P250
million preferred stocks.   From a paid-up capital of P250 million in 1991,
capitalization increased to P500 million in 1992 with the conversion of the SRTF
into equity and further to P600 million in 1993 with the infusion of an
additional  P100  million  in  preferred  shares  by  LBP.    The  increase  in
capitalization favorably brought down leverage from 7.8 in 1990 to 3.6 in 1993.
C. Policy Studies and Training Component
38.         This component includes two sub-components: the studies to be carried
out by ACPC and the training program under the responsibility of LBP .
39.         The Studies Sub-component.  Out of the two planned studies only one
was completed and the other one would be expanded and carried out during 1995.
A study on the agricultural term lending was completed. The findings and policy
implications of the study included the following: (i) rural term lending remained
weak. Macroeconomic environment was not conducive enough to develop term lending
in  the  Philippines.    Recommended  policy  reforms  included  reduction  of
intermediation costs and enhancing the attractiveness of agricultural lending as
an investment option for banks; (ii) specialized government banks and private
development banks participated in term lending only to satisfy their social
mandate, while RBs support it due to available seed fund facilities. Private
commercial banks utilized more of their funds for short term credit and tied up
funds from special financing programs for longer term projects; (iii) seed fund
facilities could serve as "stimulus" in pushing the development of term lending
in the country but should be treated only as a stop-gap measure which can
temporarily address the immediate requirements of the sector; and a follow-up
study on agricultural term lending market should be undertaken focussing on
improving the estimation of supply and demand for term lending and on the
profitability of medium and long term lending of banks vis-a-vis short term
agricultural loans and other investment options. To the extent possible, a macro
level analysis should be done to estimate the magnitude of medium and long term
agricultural financing and its various patterns.   The comprehensive study to
generate formal basic data to determine the relative role that the informal
financial sector is playing in terms of credit supply and resource mobilization
in rural areas has not been carried out. ACPC stated that a proposal entitled
"Policy Related Studies for the Rural Finance Sector" was submitted to LBP for
possible funding of some portions of the study but no agreement was reached
between LBP and ACPC on the matter. On the informal credit sector, a study on
"The Efficiency of NGOs as Financial Intermediaries" was started with the
construction and pre-testing of survey questionnaires. however, the conduct of
the survey and writing of report has not yet been implemented. Recently, LBP
indicated to ACPC that the funds for the Policy studies are now available. In
this regard, a Memorandum of Agreement between LBP and ACPC is currently being
finalized. Also, the terms of reference for the Policy Studies is being revised
to account for what has not been earlier accomplished and for more recent
concerns in rural finance.   The revised Policy Studies will consist of the
following components: (i) profitability analysis of the medium and long term
agricultural loans; (ii) extent and efficiency of informal credit market system
and linkages; (iii) extent of agricultural lending activities of NGOs and
cooperatives; and (iv) evaluation of LBP's agrarian lending.



- 22 -
The Training Sub-component
40.         This sub-component was satisfactorily implemented by LBP.  Various
training in the form of lectures and/or seminars were conducted to address skill
gaps  of project-related  staff  in LBP and the PFIs.   Annex M  lists  the
environmental seminars/workshops participated by LBP-CLF officers and staff as
well as representatives of the PFIs.   These seminars provided the necessary
technical know-how on environmental management and environmental impact
assessment of sub-projects.  Aside from briefing the participants on the CLF
program, guidelines, policies and procedures, the PFI account officers were
likewise clarified on the preparation of cashflow, financial projections and ERR
and FRR computations. In addition to formal lectures, the CLF Unit, as part of
its intensive market efforts, conducted periodic calls to PFIs wherein major
policies and requirements were explained during one-on-one discussions with PFI
account officers.   The CLF Unit also actively attended various conventions/
confederation meetings of RBs and promoted the active utilization of the program.
41.         For the training of RBs, a two-year Management Development Program
has been developed by the LBP Countryside Development Foundation Inc.   The
training program aimed to systematize and strengthen the operational processes
of RBs to enable them to function as viable conduits of countryside credit. It
also aimed to strengthen the RBs' overall internal capability and improve their
solvency, profitability and liquidity positions through establishment of required
and appropriate systems in the areas of credit process, internal control and
operations management.   The monitoring and evaluation component gauged the
effectiveness of the technology transfer through monitoring of the operation of
the different systems and procedures. This two-year program, which started in
July 1993, aimed to enhance the internal capability of 216 RBs. As of June 30,
1994, 100 LBP assisted RBs were trained involving 398 participants from various
regions nationwide.
42.         LBP Assisted Cooperatives (BACs) Training Program was conducted to
provide capability building intervention schemes and help strengthen cooperatives
nationwide with which LBP has various loan exposures. In 1992, five (5) training
modules were developed and packaged, namely: Basic Coop Bookkeeping Course, Basic
Coop Operations Management Course, Advanced Coop Bookkeeping Course, Advanced
Coop Operations Management Course and Orientation Course for Board of Directors.
To carry out the needed training programs on all the target BACs, LPB-Cooperative
Development Assistance Group (CDAG) recruited, established and trained 103 local
trainers teams nationwide in coordination with LBP Field Offices and NGOs. The
teams provided training to 3,886 BACs in 1992. BAC training was not confined to
the formal classroom type.  Officers and employees of selected primaries and
federations were exposed, through exchange programs and study tours, to actual
operations of successful cooperatives to acquire hands-on knowledge and skills
in projects that were deemed suitable in their respective areas.   LBP-CDAG
facilitated and implemented in 1992, coop exchange programs benefitting 155
primaries and 15 federations.   In 1993, 3,259 BACs were trained in various
modules earlier mentioned. Ten (10) coop congresses were facilitated involving
257 BACs and eight (8) exchange programs were conducted involving 93 BACs.
ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
43.         Bank's  Performance  and  Lessons  Learned.    The  Bank's  overall
performance was very satisfactory. Timely and adequate supervision missions were
conducted to ensure that program objectives would be achieved.   Queries and



23 -
clarification on various aspects of program implementation were promptly acted
upon by Bank's program manager.  Moreover, response/approval of loans beyond
LBP's free limit were made within a very reasonable time frame.
44.         There were, however, minor problems encountered concerning loan
drawdowns.   In some cases wherein there were heavy releases on CLF loan,s
internal funds temporarily financed CLF loan releases as reimbursements were made
in pesos which was subject to documentary stamp tax payment, an expense which
could be avoided should the Bank have a shorter processing time on applications
for replenishment. Also, during recovery of the seed fund, LBP was not fully
reimbursed based on the expected rate of recovery of submitted expenditures. LBP
would have highly appreciated to be informed on the reasons for any reduction in
the requested reimbursement of fund.
Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned.
45.         Aside  from  the attractive  features  of  the program,  the  full
disbursement of the Fund three years ahead of the original schedule could also
be attributed to the intensive marketing efforts of the CLF Unit. Documentary
requirements, evaluation and approval procedures were streamlined so as not to
replicate the credit evaluation conducted by the PFIs as the credit risks were
already addressed by LBP's strict accreditation process.
46.         Despite the successful implementation of CLFI, there are some areas
of improvement for better implementation of a similar program identified from the
experiences from CLF I, namely:
a.    There were significant policy changes announced midstream of
the   project   implementation   which   slowed   down   fund
disbursement.   These included policy changes such as  (i)
limitation to working capital financing; (ii) suspension of
relending to large asset-size sub-borrowers; and (iii)
revision of pricing formula. These policy changes adversely
affected the marketing efforts and loan packages of the PFIs
as some projects suddenly became ineligible for funding
despite the no pre-determined market allocation policy of the
Program. These should not have happened if certain parameters
had already been set at the program start to address CLF's
financing limitations. Also, specific safeguards should be
incorporated in the pricing formula (e.g. floor price) to
ensure the viability of the Program.
b.    The CLF Unit operated on a very lean staffing.   As the
promotion of the active utilization of the CLF lines,
processing of loan applications and disbursements were
prioritized, some operational requirements were set aside.
Manpower limitations constrained the coverage of more project
end-use verifications/inspections. Even the training of CLF
Unit staff were very limited as the continuous operations of
the Program had to be ensured.
c.    The Management Information System (MIS) of the CLF needs to be
strengthened and improved. Experience showed that most of the
data/information necessary for the preparation of CLF reports
to IBRD were sourced from various departments within LBP.



-24 -
Likewise, data requirements of PFIs and other government
agencies were coursed through the other departments concerned
since the data was not yet readily available within the CLF
Unit.   Also,  CLF data/information was not updated since
reports were done on a weekly/monthly basis.   Thus,  an
improved/upgraded MIS is necessary to provide accurate system
of sourcing information in various forms as a tool of
management in forming critical decisions.
d.    LBP and the PFIs are generally committed to comply with
environmental requirements.  however, there was an apparent
lack of technical expertise both from LBP and the PFIs on this
field.   Thus, even simple matters regarding environmental
requirements had to be referred to the Environmental
Management Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.  Such actions delayed project implementation and
fund disbursement as well.   A training program should be
conducted for LBP unit personnel who shall implement certain
technical aspects such as environmental screening of
subprojects applying for CLF financing.
47.         Effectiveness of Relationship Between IBRD and LBP.  The working
relationship between IBRD and LBP was very satisfactory. The smooth relationship
with the Bank definitely contributed to the successful implementation of the
project.



- 25 -
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
PROJECT                                           PURPOSE                             ORIGINAL  YEAR OF STATUS/COMMENTS
AMOUNT APPROVAL
(USSS M)    FY
RuraL Credit I        Medium- and long-term credit to improve farm machinery and    5.0           1966   Completed Loan was
(Ln. 432-PH)          to develop smaLl private irrigation systems.                                        fully disbursed.  PCR
data not available.
Rural Credit II       Mediun- and long-term loans for modernization of farm             12.5      1969   Completed Loan was
(Ln. 607-PH)          machinery and irrigation equipment, including fisheries                             fully disbursed.  PCR
equipment and small boats.                                                         data not available.
Rice Processing       Development and modernization of the rice and corn                14.3      1971   Loan was fully
(Ln. 720-PH)          processing industry through Long-term credit.                                       disbursed.  PCR
issued 10/19/82.
Livestock             Livestock development program through agricuLtural credit          7.5      1972   Loan was fulLy
(Ln. 823-PH)          administered by DBP.                                                                disbursed.  PCR
issued 09/29/77.
Fisheries Credit      Improve national fish production through improvement of           11.6      1973   Loan was fully
(Ln. 891-PH)          capture and culture fisheries.                                                      disbursed.  PCR
issued 07/22/80.
Industrial            Finance direct imports for medium and relatively large            50.0      1974   Loan was fully
Investment and        industrial projects in manufacturing, agro-industrial.                              disbursed.  PCR
SmaLIhoLder Tree-                                                                                         issued 03/27/84.
Farmers Project
(Ln. 998-PH)
Rural Credit Ill      Continuation and expansion of Ln. 607-PH, including               22.0      1974   Loan was fully
(Ln. 1010-PH)         development of fisheries, livestock, cottage and agro-                              disbursed.  PCR
industries.                                                                        issued 01/23/78.
Livestock It          Increase domestic production of livestock products.               20.5      1976   Loan was fully
(Ln. 1225-PH)                                                                                             disbursed.  PCR
issued 02/17/83.
Grain Processing II  To assist in modernizing and expanding Philippine grain            11.5      1976   Loan was fully
(Ln. 1269-PH)         processing industry through providing long-term credit.                             disbursed.  PCR
issued 01/14/85.
Fisheries II          Same as Fisheries I above.                                        12.0      1976   Loan was fully
(Ln. 1270-PH)                                                                                             disbursed.  PCR
issued 10/12/85.
Rural Credit IV       Medium- and Long-term credit through participating banks          36.5      1977   US$3,500 was
(Ln. 1399-PH)         to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm                                 cancelled.  PCR
mechanization, livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-                          issued 12/19/85.
industries.
SmaiLholder Tree      Continuation of LN. 998-PH with additional components in           8.0      1978   USS3.8 M was
Farming               large-scale plantation, forestry research and planning.                             cancelled.   PCR
(Ln. 1506-PH)                                                                                             issued 04/28/87.
Small Farmer          To increase agricultural productivity and expand rural            16.5      1979   US$0.78 M was
Development           employment opportunities among small-scale farmers.                                 canceLled.  PCR
(Ln. 1646-PH)                                                                                             issued ??????
Third Livestock/      Same as in Loans 891-PH, 1270-PH and increase in meat             45.0      1981   US$21.48 M was
Fisheries             production.                                                                         canceLLed.  PCR
(Ln. 1894-PH)                                                                                             issued 08/26/88.
Agricultural Credit  To assist in enhancing the ruraL financial sector and              100.0     1985   Loan fully disbursed.
(Ln. 2570-PH)         provide funds for term credit to agriculture through the                            PCR issued.
banking system.



- 26 -
2. Proiect Timetable
ITEM                                   DATE PLANNED      DATE ACTUAL
Identification                       11/89            11/06/89
Preparation                          02/90            02/18/90
Preappraisal                         09/90            10/22/90
Appraisal                            01/91            02/24/91
Loan Negotiations                    05/91            02/24/92
Board Approval                       07/91            06/21/91
Loan Signature                       07/11/91         07/11/91
Loan Effectiveness                   10/01/91         11/07/91
Loan Closing                         03/31/97         06/08/94
Project Completion                   09/30/96         06/08/941
1/    Loan was fully disbursed with the last disbursement made on 8th June 1994.
3. Project Cost & Financing (US$ million)
Actual    Ea.uivalent 1/   Variance
SAR Est    to Mar 94   no RecyclinQ    C from A
A            B             C
Project Cost
Short Term Credit               66.7          31.5          30.4         -54%
Medium & Long Term Credit    133.3           238.0         229.6          72%
Total Credit                   200.0         269.5         260.0          30%
Training & Studies               3.5           3.5           3.5           0%
TOTAL                          203.5         273.0         263.5          29%
Financing
IBRD                           150.0         150.0         150.0           0%
Recycled Funds (net)                           5.5
Sub-Borrowers                   30.0          81.5          78.6         162%
PFIs                            20.0          32.5          31.4          57%
LBP                              3.4           3.4           3.4           0%
ACPC                             0.1           0.1           0.1           0%
TOTAL                          203.5         273.0         263.5          29%
I/    As Project cost at appraisal was estimated on 'first use of funds'
only, project investment over the period to March 31, 1994 is scaled
down proportionally so as to leave out loans supported by net    recycled
funds.



4. Disbursements (US$ million)
A. Disbursements by Category
Loan                 Actual
Agreement
Estimate
Part A(M) - Short-term loans                             50.0                13.7
Part A(2) - medium- and                                100.0                136.3
long-term loans
TOTAL                                                  150.0                150.0
B.  Estimated and Actual Disbursements over Time
Cumulative Z of
Cumulative             standard
Bank Fiscal                                       Cumulative            Disbursement as         Disburs Bent
Year/Semester              Disbursement           Disbursement          % of the loan           Profile-'
SAR Est  Actual          SAR    Actual         SAR    Actual
Est                   Est
FT92
First                          16.0      10.0         16.0     10.0          10.7      6.7               0
Second                         20.0      18.3         36.0     28.3          24.0     18.9               6
FY93
First                          13.0     45.2          49.0     73.5         32.7      49.0              14
Second                         14.0      39.0         63.0    112.5         42.0      75.0              22
FM9
First                          14.0      17.4         77.0    129.9         51.3      86.6              34
Second                         13.0      20.1         90.0    150.0         60.0    100.0               50
Fms
First                          13.0                  103.0                  68.7                        62
Second                         14.0                  117.0                  78.0                        78
FY96
First                           9.0                  126.0                  84.0                        82
Second                          9.0                  135.0                  90.0                        94
F197
First                           7.5                  142.5                  95.0                        100
Second                          7.5                  150.0                  100.0
3/       At appraisal, loan effectiveness and closing dates assumed to be October 1, 1991 and March 31, 1997;
actual date of loan effectiveness was November 7, 1991 and closing
For all regions agricultural credit projects as of April 1990.



- 28 -
5. Project Implementation
Indicators                          Appraisal Estimate   PCR Estimate to June
during Drawdown       1994
Period
1.  Outstanding Loans to PFIs at  P4.1 billion            P3.35 billion
end of Disbursement Period          Equiv US$115 million Equiv US$124 million
2.  Cumulative Provision for Bad  R10.25 million          P0.01 million
Debts at end of Disbursement
Period
3.  % CLF held as cash or other   15%                     15%
liquid investments at end of         (US$20.3 million)     (US$20.4 million)1/
Disbursement Period
4.  Number of sub-loans made (to
end March 1994)
- Total                             Not estimated         687
- Short-term                        Not estimated         111
- Medium-term                       Not estimated         536
- Long-term                         Not estimated          40
5.  Annual Impact of CLF on LBP   P40-P50 million         P69 million in 199.3
profitability
6. FRRs to Sub Borrowers?1
- Proportion less than 20% FRR    Not estimated           19%
- Proportion 20-30% FRR             Not estimated         43%
- Proportion 30-40% FRR             Not estimated         14%
- Proportion over 40% FRR           Not estimated         24%
- Average                           Not estimated         30%
7. Average ERRs to Sub
Borrowers2l                         Not estimated          35%
8.  No. of jobs created directly-/ 25,000                 9,000
1/    Net current assets i.e. total cash, less net current liabilities.
2/    Ex ante data taken from analysis of a sample of subloans including 100% of
subloans over P50 million, 33% of subloans P5-P50 million and 10% of
subloans below R5 million.



- 29 -
6. CLF: Interest Rates, Inflation and OnlendinQ
1992    1992    1992    1992    1993    1993    1993    1993   j.194  Overall
G1      Q2       03       04      Q1        a2       Q3       04    Qi
Interest Rate                17.6%   15.4%   13.7%   13.8%   12.9%   10.7%   11.0%   11.2X   15.5%   13.5%
(Pass on to PFIs a/)
T-Bill Rate                  18.6%   15.1%   15.6%   14.8%   13.3X   10.9X   10.9%   14.7%   15.1%   14.3%
Variance (CLF:T-Bill)        -5.5%    2.2%  -12.2%   -6.5%   -3.2%   -1.6%    0.9%  -23.8%    2.8%   -5.5%
QuarterLy Inflation           7.9%   12.0X    9.1%    3.9%    5.4%    9.2%    1.3%    7.9%    9.3%    7.3%
Real Interest Rate            9.0%    3.0%    4.2%    9.5%    7.1%    1.4%    9.6%    3.1%    5.7%    5.8%
(Pass on to PFIs a/)
Volume (million peso)          477       44      603      838      404      575      340      543      219   4,043
Number of Loans                216       31       90       65       51       64       49       81       40      687
Average Subsidiary Loan        2.2      1.4      6.7    12.9       7.9      9.0      6.9      6.7      5.5      5.9
Size b/ (million peso)
a/ Rate to PFI. Rate to sub-borrower averages 4% higher
b/ Amount lent by LBP to PFI. Amount lent by PFI to sub-borrower averages 15% higher



- 30 -
7. CLF Balance Sheets & Profit & Loss Accounts (million pesos)
CLF Balance Sheets
Dec '92    Dec '93    Jun '94
CLF Rediscounted Loans
Short-Term                                     55.86       87.25        16.89
Medium-Term                                 1,130.86   2,433.76   2,670.21
Long-Term                                     457.13      646.95      659.07
Overdue                                         4.84        1.08         0.72
Total Portfolio                             1.648.6    3169.03   3.346.89
Cash                                          235.14      485.19   1,072.14
Other Current Assets                           53.01       77.54       67.39
Current Assets                                288.14      562.73   1,139.53
- less current Liabilities                  (119.37)   (404.89)   (586.90)
Net Current Assets                            168.78      157.84      552.63
Total Assets less Current Liabilities   1,817.47   3,326.87   3,899.52
Due to World Bank                           1,860.77   3,343.78   3,875.01
Fund Equity/Deficit                           -43.30      -16.91       24.51
Equity Adjusted for Imputed Income              1.14       77.35      166.41
CLF Profit & Loss Accounts
Year to    Year to  6 Mths to
Dec '92    Dec '93    Jun '94
Loan Interest                                  60.90      299.72      219.72
Other Interest                                  0.90        2.28        -0.01
MiscelLaneous Income                            1.40        4.02         1.27
Total Income                                  63.21      306.02      220.98
Interest to WB                                 62.13      214.72      118.09
Commitment Fee 1/                              11.22        3.06         0.22
FX Risk Cover                                  25.53       34.24       42.66
Guarantee Fee                                   8.20       27.35        17.70
Misc Expenses                                   0.06        0.26         0.88
Provisions for Losses                                                    0.01
Total Costs                                  107.15      279.62      179.56
Net Income                                    -43.94       26.40       41.42
Imputed Income 2/                              44.44       49.81       47.64
Net Income After Imputation                     0.50       76.21       89.06
Estimated cost of CLF Unit 3/                   5.32        6.94        4.00
IncrementaL Impact on LBP Profit               (4.82)      69.27       85.06
1/  Includes committment fees for Sept - Dec 1991 of P 3.76 MilLion.
2/  Average daiLy cash balance multiplied by short term rate on
Government Securities (Less 20% Withholding Tax).
3/ Based on CLF utilizing equivalent of 20 full time staff and all
LBP's operating costs being pro rata to staff members.



- 31 -
8. Status of Covenants
Section        Covenant                              Status of Compliance
LA 2.02(b)     The borrower shall for the purpose  In full compliance -
of the project open and maintain in accourt opened December 18,
dollars a special account on terms  1991.
and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
LA 3.01(a)     The borrower shall carry out the    In full compliance.
project in conformity with
appropriate practices.
LA 3.02        The borrower shall exclude itself   In full compliance.
from retailing the CLF and relend
the proceeds of the loan to PFIs.
LA 4.01        Maintenance of accounts and           In full compliance.
furnishing them to the Bank.
LA 4.04        The Borrower shall maintain the       Generally complied with.
following ratios: (i) risk assets toIn 1993 liquid assets to
net equity of not more than 7 to 1; short term deposits was
and (ii) liquid assets to short termreduced to 110% as a result
deposits of not less than 125%.      of huge increase in GOP
short term deposit.
LA 4.05        ARF arrears to the Borrowers shall  Complied with.
not exceed 20% of the Borrowers
equity or Peso 1 billion whichever
is lower.
LA Sch.5       The Borrower shall finance sub-loansGenerally complied with,
(1)(a)         on the basis of arrangements          more resources should have
satisfactory to the Bank.            been provided for
monitoring of individual
sub-loans.
LA Sch.5       The Borrower shall exercise its       Generally complied with
(1)(b)         rights in relation to each PFI so   although some investments
that they follow the Policy Manual, funded under the project do
conduct their affairs in accordance not appear to have been
with sound business practices and   analyzed fully along the
maintain adequate record.            lines of the Policy Manual.
LA Sch.5(2)    Eligibility of PFIs, maintenance andln full compliance.
furnishing to the Bank of records
with evidence of eligibility of each
PFI.
LA Sch.5(3)    Principal terms and conditions of   In full compliance.
subsidiary and sub-loans.



- 32 -
LA Sch.5(4)    Procurement of goods and works         Difficult to ascertain
required for the project shall be   whether fully complied with
carried out in accordance with Sch  particularly with
5(4).                                 investment by sub-
borrowers, but appears
acceptable overall.
GA 2.01         The Guarantor declares his            Complied with.
commitment to the objective of the
project.
FA 3.01(a)      The Guarantor shall cause PCIC to   Complied with upto 1993.
carry out its development program   In 1993 a freeze on further
satisfactory to the Bank.             premium adjustment was
imposed on PCIC by the
guarantor. Also the
Guarantor failed to
transfer to PCIC its
insurance premium share.
GA 3.01(b)      The Guarantor shall cause QGFB to   Partially complied with.
carry out its development program   QGFB has become a
satisfactory to the Bank.             corporation with legal
entity, its scope of
activities has been
expanded, and partial
privatization was allowed
but not materialized,
equity increase and
business expansion has not
taken place.
GA 3.01(c)      The Guarantor shall cause ACPC to   Partially complied with.
carry out the two studies as agreed Out of the two studies
with the Bank.                        agreed with the Bank only
one was completed.
GA 3.01(d)      The Guarantor shall cause the         Complied with.
Central Bank to implement
satisfactory criteria and
regulations concerning: (i) the
opening of new branches; (ii) the
establishment of new banks servicing
the rural areas; (iii) mergers of
banks in rural areas; and (iv)
single ownership restrictions.
GA 3.02         The Guarantor shall take all          Partially complied with.
necessary actions to ensure the       The process of issuing the
financial viability of the Borrower agrarian reform bonds by
in a manner satisfactory to the       GOP instead of the Borrower
Bank.                                 has been started but not
yet completed.



- 3 3 -
GA 3.03         The Guarantor shall assume the         Complied with.
foreign exchange risk in respect of
the Loan and charge the Borrower a
fee therefore based on arrangements
acceptable to the Bank.



- 34 -
9. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staffweeks)
Stage of Prolect Cycle                 Planned     Total Actual
Through Appraisal                     181.0          175.2
Appraisal through Board approval    61.0              15.8
Supervision                            33.0           47.4
Completion                              8.0            4.0
Total Staff Inputs                283.0          242.4
Total   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94
Ident./preparation          175.2   35.3   81.6  58.3
Appraisal                     9.7                   9.7
Negotiations/Board            6.1                   6.1
Supervision                  47.4                   1.1 22.6  17.5      6.2
Completion                    4.0                                       4.0
Total                 242.4   35.3   81.6  75.2 22.6  17.5    10.2
B. Mission Data
Staff
Month/  Number of  Days in                Performance   Type of
Year    Persons    Field    Specialty  Rating            Problem
Identification  11/89          5         85      B,C,A,D,E
Preparation       2/90         4         80      B,C,A,E,D
Pre-appraisal   06/90          4         80      B,G,E,C
Pre-appraisal   10/90          5        100      B,E,A,D,G
Appraisal        02/91         3         30      B,E,G
Supervision   9/12/91          1         15      B,F             1           n.a.
2/24/92         1         21      B,F             1           n.a.
9/4/92         1         10      B               1           n.a.
1/6/93         1          6      B               1           n.a.
6/15/93         1          6      B               1           n.a.
2/24/92         1         21      B
9/4/92         1         10      B
1/6/93         1          6      B
6/15/93         1          6      B
Specialty:      A:  Agricultural Economist
B:  Financial Analyst
C:  Agricultural Credit Specialist
D:  Financial Management Specialist
E:  Economist
F:  Environmental Specialist
G:  Legal Counsel



IBRD 27553
115-                       120-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 212-                                                                        1 28-
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY ADMINISTRATIVE REGIONS
I ILOCOS                   VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                                      B.-                            PHILIPPINES
20-           Il=cos Norte                   Akon                                                                                                                                        20-
loos Sur                       Capia
Lo Union                       Antique                                      BATANES
Pangasinan                    lloilo b3                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATIVE           Negros Occidental
REGION (CAR)                        Guimnors                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Abra              VIi  CENTRAL VISAYAS
Kalinga-Apoyao                 Cebu                                                                                         REGION BOUNDARIES
Mountain Province              Negros Oriental
Hfugeo                         Bohol 
Bengae                         SiqBoho)                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
11 CAGAYANVALLEY          Vill EASTERNVISAYAS
Boin-                          Northern Samar                                                                    oNOTE The nUmber of Rogion- ond Provines shown on this m-p
Cegeyon                        Weskrn Somor                                                                         f-, tore [e  rhon the odool tminI How-v-r damn on those boundoty
Isabela                        Eastern Samar                                  CAR                                chonges/odditont woo un--voloble ot the time of prinig.
Nueno Vizcay                   Leyte
Quirino                        Southern Leyte                                             11
III CENTRAL LUZON                       BiiranI
Noena Ecijo        IX  WESTERN MINDANAO
T[rIac                         Zerboanga del Node
Zambalare-                     Zamboanga del Sur
Porpango                      B1sin(J1
Eulocrn             X  NORTHERN MINDANAO                                                                      KILOMETERS  0           100          200          300
Bataan                         Sorigao  del Nodte                                                                         __ _ _ _ __6__ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
-     NATIONAL CAPITAL                     Carigo                                                                              MIE   0          50 /                 iS        2
REGION (NCR) CI-gU;,,                                                                                                    MILES D         50         100       150        200
IV  SOUTHERN TAGALOG                    Aguson del Node            
Aurr                           Misointrs Oriental
Qu-oun                         M-isai Occidental              III                      L          CUZ    N
Rioai                          Bokidcno-n
Cooite                         Ag-son del Sur
Xi SOUTHERN MINDANAO
Laguna                ~~~~~Surigao del Sur
Maoagaun                       D-aao Orientoal                          C
Marindoque  1I                 Da-aa del Norte
M;~c- Ooic..t.I        Danao del Sur                                                                       V
M:ndoro Occidental             Sovot CotabatoL                                                         
Romboon                        Saa ngani /b<CATANDUANES
Palawan  ~             Sargw
V  BICOL                   XII CENTRALMINDANAO
Camorines Norte                Lanao del Norte
Camarines Sur                  Sultan Kodarat
Contanduanes            AUTONOMOUS REGION OF
AJboy                   MUSLIM MINDANAO (ARMM)                    IV
Sor,gon                        Loneo del Sot
Mansooe                        Magucndao.                    MiNDORO
North Cotabato
Sulo                                                                                                SAMAEL
12- Tawitawi                                                                                                                                                Vil                         to
PANAY
LEYTE
-CEOU               
PALAWAN
V I S A Y AS
NEGROS             VIl
Tie baundarleS rotor,, d.nlo .....r..........a-lOrr,..\ 
obd or- oth. rrtorior*v sh-on 
oadaro-lp o- e. ,nrhrat oft
The wanld Eant Gram -an caord-t
on the bp=al status oftany tmerroy or                                                                                         I
ayrendorseeearotasepevrnseotsorh_                                                                                                                      XI
huondarJes                                                                                                      IXX                                                    
CH NA                                                                                                             MIN A               N 
GHONG
KONG,
CAUK
PORT/
PHILIPPINES                                             ARMM
OIET   BRUNEI
tA^YSIA  U\
I N D O NE S5I0
t_ oo-                                                     t-                                                         1o8-
11/8/1995      mm  c       ll                      1ST  E    F









IMAGING
Report No-      15233
Type: PCR



