Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16623
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN 3236 - UNI
June 11, 1997
West Central Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit                  Nigerian Naira
(As of December 1989)          (As of October 1995)
US$1=              7.90                             82.0
Fiscal Year of the Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
NITEL                          =      Nigerian Telecommunications Plc.
FMFED                          =      Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development of Nigeria
MOC                            =      Ministry of Communications
NCC                            =      National Communications Commission
PPF                            =      Project Preparation Facility
SAR                            =      Staff Appraisal Report
DEL                            =      Direct Exchange Line
IRR                            =      Internal Rate of Return
NFA                            =      Net Fixed Assets
MIS                            =      Management Information System
FGN                            =      Federal Government of the Republic of
Nigeria
Vice President                            Jean-Louis SARBIB
Director                                  Yaw ANSU
Division Chief/Manaaer                    Surjit SINGH
Staff Member                              Paul BERMINGHAM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ..........................................
Evaluation Summary ..........................................i
Part I         Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives   .           .........................1
B. Achievement of Objectives              ...............................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project    ...............................8
D. Project Sustainability ...............................8
E. Bank Performance ...............................8
F. Borrower Performance ................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ..............................9
H. Future Operation ............................ ..9
1. Key Lessons Learned ...............................                10
Part II:       Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loan .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated.
and Actual .14
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operations .16
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs .17
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................             18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefis .18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .19-20
Table 1 1:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .22
Appendices:
A: Mission's Aide Memoire ...........................            23-37
B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR .............        .............. 38
C:    M ap           ...........................                 39-40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Federal Republic of Nigeria
Telecommunications Proiect
Loan 3236 - UNI
Implementation Completion Report
Preface
1.    This Report covers the Telecommunications Project in Nigeria, supported by Loan
3236-UNI. The Loan for US$ 225 million was presented to the Board on June 26, 1990,
signed on December 10, 1990 and became effective on June 10, 1991. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1995, the expected closing date.
2.    This report has been prepared by Bank staff based on information available in the
project files and information supplied by Nigerian Telecommunications Plc. (NITEL)
3.    NITEL has not prepared any reports as yet to give its perspective of the design,
implementation and development impact of the project, nor provided comments on the
draft ICR.



i



i
Nigeria
Telecommunications Project
Loan 3236 - UNI
Implementation Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
Back2round
1.    Public telecommunications services in Nigeria are provided by the Nigerian
Telecommunications Plc. (NITEL), a fully Government-owned corporation under the overall
guidance of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FGN).
2.    This was the first Loan for the Telecommunications sector in Nigeria.
Project Obiectives
3.    The main objectives of the project were to support and strengthen the institutional and
policy framework and to facilitate the commercialization of NITEL; improve the access to and
quality of telecommunications services; and improve NITEL's financial performance.
4.    The project included the following:
(a)   an institutional development program including technical assistance to: develop a
long-term network development strategy and realistic investment program; undertake
technical audit of the Lagos network; review NITEL's accounting and financial systems
and procedures as well as its billing and collection systems; implement integrated
Management Information Systems; review tariff levels and structure; revalue fixed
assets; improve project management, financial management, material management, and
network planning; and human resource development for NITEL; and
(b)   a physical development program including: rehabilitation of existing facilities;
supply, installation and commissioning of new exchanges and matching external line
plant in the Lagos metropolitan area and major cities (200,000 new lines); rehabilitation
of the Lanlate satellite earth station; expansion of long distance transmission links;
establishment of the teleprinter and telex module repair center; construction of buildings;
and provision of telephone instruments, vehicles and ancillary equipment.



ii
5.   In July 1987, a PPF advance of about US$ 800,000 was provided to NITEL for 50 man-
months of consultancy for the preparation and design of the project. Most of the institutional
development program was established as a result of the recommendations of the consultants.
Experience and Results
6.    Project implementation suffered continuing delays which ultimately resulted in
cancellation of US$ 198 million (88 percent of loan amount). Signing of the loan documents was
delayed by more than three months because authorization by the Federal Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development of Nigeria (FMFED) and NITEL was not granted on time. Loan
effectiveness was delayed by more than nine months to June 1991 because the employment of
financial consultants, one of the conditions of effectiveness, was delayed until that date.
7.    Although contract awards worth US$ 46 million were cleared by the Bank by November
1991, only two contracts worth US$ 15.5 million had been signed by February 1993.
Throughout the project implementation period little progress was made with the critically
important institutional development component of the project. The consultancy to improve
financial management and accounting systems was awarded after considerable delays and the
assignment was completed in 1994, but realized very little real change in the target areas. The
consultancy for technical services and project management was signed after delays of almost two
years. This assignment played a critical role in achieving the little progress that was made.
8.    Due to the continuous delays, new technology superseded the need for one project
component resulting in the cancellation of US$ 30 million in 1994. As of September 1994, the
project was about two and a half years behind schedule and only US$ 11.7 million had been
disbursed (of which US$10 million was for the special account). In addition to procurement
delays, NITEL breached several of the provisions of the Loan Agreement. By November 1994 it
had become evident that the project development objectives would not be achieved to any
satisfactory standard.
9.    Following a detailed revision of the status of the project and a series of communications
with both the FGN and NITEL, the Bank by telex dated March 16, 1995 canceled a further US$
168 million from the Loan amount. Only US$ 27 million equivalent was retained in the Loan to
cover disbursement related to on-going contracts.
Proiect Costs
10.   The Bank financed portion of the overall project was expected to be US$ 225 million
equivalent. Due to the cancellation of US$ 198 million equivalent, the estimated Bank financed
project cost fell to around US$ 27 million.
Proiect Results



iii
11.   Most of the objectives of the project were not achieved. Very little of the physical
component of the project was achieved because of delays. It is expected that switching
equipment for 30,000 lines will be rehabilitated and external line plant for an additional 39,000
lines will be installed. This compares with SAR targets of 265,000 additional lines to be
connected including switching, cabling and external line plant. Due to the failure to implement
the institutional development components, none of the development objectives were achieved.
12.   NITEL 's financial performance has improved since 1992, but major problems remain.
As a result of the Government converting N5.5 billion of debt into equity, NITEL has become
solvent. Profits have also been recorded since 1992, mainly due to the large tariff increases,
lower interest charges (as a consequence of debt conversion) and the use of the official exchange
rate (which is less than the market rate) for converting foreign currency liabilities. With the
exception of the level of accounts receivable, NITEL complied with the key financial
performance covenants since 1992. However the overall financial relationship between NITEL
and the Government remains unsatisfactory. The Government has been in serious arrears to
NITEL for telecommunications services throughout the period of the project (one of the main
debtors to NITEL). The on-lending arrangements from the Government to NITEL in respect of
donor financing have broken down and like other state-owned enterprises (SOEs) with foreign
exchange earnings, NITEL's substantial cash balances were (and still are) required to be
deposited to the Central Bank or in low interest Government bonds. Even though the audited
statements of NITEL have seldom been qualified, the auditors have not been able to confirm the
balances of deposits or arrears or loan amounts in these cases.
Institutional Performance
13.   Progress on the institutional development program has been unsatisfactory on most
counts. The key objective of commercializing NITEL has failed. Although there were some
signals of commitment to this end, when NITEL was converted to a public limited company and
the Government converted outstanding debt to equity, in reality the Government remained
involved in all significant elements of NITEL's operations. The Government's approval was
required for the award of all contracts over US$ 1.5 million, as well as changes to the tariffs and
salary levels. More importantly, the serious lack of independence from the Government resulted
in serious delays in contract approvals and disbursements. The Government suspended the
entire management of NITEL and replaced it with a sole military administrator. This lack of
independence seriously hampered the objective of commercialization and NlTEL's ability to
implement the project.
14.   The two-year delay in the recruitment of project management consultants combined with
the tragic death of one of the members significantly limited the contribution of the consultants.
Consequently, NITEL with its restricted institutional capacity was unable to fulfill several of the
required institutional objectives. For example, NITEL was unable to develop a realistic long
term network development and investment program; to prepare a human resource development
program; and to prepare satisfactory bid documents. Although consultants for financial
management and accounting services were contracted on time, little was achieved in terms of



iv
establishing a satisfactory accounting and management information system. Billing and
collection systems continue to be ineffectual.
Manpower and Training
15.   The objectives of the project as outlined in the management contract between NITEL and
the Government were: (i) to develop and implement improved personnel management policies
and a staffing plan aimed at streamlining the work force to match job requirements with
appropriate skills and eliminate overstaffing; and (ii) to promote operating efficiency. The first
objective was not fulfilled. No satisfactory staffing policies were put in place, NITEL was
unable to prepare a satisfactory needs list for overseas fellowship training despite intensive help
from the Bank's resident mission.
Proiect Sustainability and Outcome
16.   Telecommunications sector development strategies have changed considerably since the
time this project was prepared. At the time of the project preparation, the key elements of sector
reform centered around commercialization and efficient institutional arrangements. The capital
costs of technology did not at that time warrant developing countries to deviate from a
monopolistic structure for the provision of basic services. However, with the dramatic change in
technologies and prices, the core of sector reform now focuses on competitiveness and private
sector participation. Unless the Government institutes real changes in its policies to include
more service providers and private sector participation, the objectives of the project cannot be
achieved or sustained.
17.   The overall project outcome is highly unsatisfactory. NITEL did not have the capacity or
appropriate institutional environment to implement such a large and complex project, even
though it had sufficient technical staff to handle the technical aspects the project. This is evident
from the constant delays in preparation of bid documents involving several revisions in each
instance; inability to prepare relatively simple documents such as a needs list for overseas
scholarship; inability to prepare realistic business plans even for the following fiscal year. The
Project Management consultancy was included in the project to overcome this constraint and to
developed NITEL's institutional capacity. But by the time the consultants were contracted and
adequately staffed, the project implementation was already delayed by two and a half years.
Also, due to the poor management of the financial and accounting systems, consultants achieved
very little in terms of institutional capacity development. On a broader context, the relationship
between NITEL and the Government was never at arms length as was originally intended and
prescribed in the management contract. Severe delays in approvals for procurement and at times
cancellation of contracts resulted in the ultimate cancellation of most of the Loan. On the whole,
there was a lack of due diligence on the part of both the Government and NITEL and a breach of
several provisions of the Loan Agreement.



v
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
18. The main findings and lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a) Institutional development of monopolies is ineffective in Bank-financed projects in
the absence of Government commitment, or suitable readiness, to an appropriate policy
and regulatory framework and operating environment of the enterprise in the concerned
sector;
(b) Autonomy is not an automatic result of corporatization;
(c) The Bank should consider portfolio remedies when systematic problems occur with
project implementation. Major project reviews should be made about two years of loan
effectiveness in countries where implementation problems are common.
(d) Consultants can play a critical role in project implementation.



I



1
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Telecommunications Project
Loan 3236 - UNI
Implementation Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Obiectives
1.    Project Objectives: The overall project objective as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
and presented to the Board on May 16, 1990 was to support the Government's development
strategy in the sector. The specific objectives were as follows:
(a) to support strengthening of the institutional framework and facilitate full
commercialization of NITEL;
(b) to improve the quality of service and system efficiency through better utilization of
existing facilities, reducing faults and increasing call completion rates;
(c) to improve NITEL's financial performance so as to reduce, and finally eliminate
government subsidies and enable NITEL to be a net contributor to the Treasury; and
(d) to expand available facilities so as to satisfy the most urgent demand.
2.    Project Setting: A major objective of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) during
the mid-eighties was to commercialize the operations of selected public sector enterprises, the
national telecommunications operator being one of them. In 1984, the two main
telecommunications service providers at the time, the Posts and Telecommunications Department
of the Government and Nigeria External Telecommunications Limited were merged to form
NITEL, a single telecommunications service provider. The responsibility for the postal services
remained with the Ministry. In 1985 NITEL was incorporated as a 100 percent Government-
owned joint stock company under the Nigerian Company Law. The Bank, in support of the
underlying agenda for reform, identified a project which would support early stages of
liberalization of the telecommunications sector in conjunction with funding for desperately
needed expansion of telecommunications facilities throughout Nigeria. In a later development
the Technical Committee for Privatization and Commercialization (TCPC) was developed (under
the Presidency) to deal with the commercialization and privatization of selected public
enterprises, including NITEL. The TCPC was converted in 1994 into the Bureau of Public



2
Enterprise (BPE). The Nigerian Communication Commission, the principal body for regulating
the telecommunications sector was established in 1993 as the next step toward liberalizing the
sector.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives: The project objectives were reasonable in the context of the
then prevailing accepted views on telecommunication sector reform. In most countries at the
time they would have been considered appropriate and feasible for the following reasons:
(a)   In the mid-eighties the predominant telecommunications reform strategy was to
privatize the operator. A prerequisite was the creation of a joint stock company.
The first objective, centering around commercialization and efficient institutional
arrangements, was therefore benchmark practice at the time. Even so, this was a
major step forward for Nigeria. Most developing countries, especially in Africa,
were not ready to take the first step toward privatization, and investors were not
ready to buy into a government-owned telecommunications regime. Also, the
capital costs of technology did not at that time warrant developing countries to
deviate from a monopolistic structure for the provision of basic services.
(b)   The second objective was appropriate but not well supported by the project
components. Consultant services focused more on planning and staff
development and less on systems and procedures. Late in the project, the Bank
did, however, commission a study to review NITEL's operations. The findings of
the study would have been used to address sustainability issues if the project had
proceeded.
(c)   Improving NITEL's financial position was a key and appropriate component. The
objective was to make NITEL more responsible for its profitability, assist in
setting appropriate tariffs, and strengthening financial management.
(d)   The investment component of the project was crucial for building Nigeria's
telecommunications facilities. It was fairly straightforward to implement and
would have provided a major improvement in telecommunications services,
which was vital for economic growth. A project of much larger scope (US$3.3
billion equivalent) was initially proposed as part of the Government's Fifth Five-
Year Plan (1986-90). With the Bank's involvement, this investment plan was
reduced to about US$ 680 million equivalent and the program period was rolled
over to 1990-1994. NITEL did not have the project management capability to
implement a project of a larger size, even though it had ample technical staff of a
high skill level who could readily handle the technical aspects of the project.
B.   Achievement of Obiectives
4.    Project Components. The project sought to achieve its objectives through the following
components which were included in the Loan Agreement signed between NITEL and the Bank:



3
Part A: Institutional Development
(a)   Preparation of a long term network development strategy and a medium term
investment program for NITEL; carrying out of a technical audit of NITEL's
Lagos network; and carrying out of a review of NITEL's accounting, financial,
billing and collection policies, procedures and systems;
(b)   Establishment of a Project Management Team;
(c)   Design and implementation of financial management systems and procedures for
NITEL including an accrual accounting system and improvements to NITEL's
budgeting, forecasting, cost control and other operating procedures;
(d)   Improving NITEL's network planning;
(e)   Establishment of comprehensive and integrated materials and storage
management control systems and procedures by NITEL;
(f)    Establishment of a Management Information System for monitoring technical and
financial performance at different levels of NITEL's management;
(g)   Revaluation of NITEL's fixed assets;
(h)   Computerization of NITEL's subscriber records; and
(i)   Provision of training fellowships to NITEL staff.
Part B: Rehabilitation and Expansion
(a)   Rehabilitation of existing switching, transmission, power and air-conditioning
equipment, including the acquisition of spare parts and test equipment;
(b)   Installation of about (i) 143,000 lines of switching equipment in the Lagos
metropolitan area; and (ii) 122,000 lines of switching equipment in the other
major cities;
(c)   Installation of external line plant to match lines of switching equipment included
in (b) above;
(d)   Installation of digital microwave radio systems in high priority areas;
(e)   Establishment of a teleprinter and telex module repair center;
(f)   rehabilitation and upgrading of Lanlate satellite earth station;



4
(g)   Acquisition of about 100,000 telephone instruments and about 8,000 pay phones;
(h)   Acquisition of about 300 motor vehicles for planning, construction and
maintenance works;
(i)    Construction of buildings; and
(j)    Acquisition of ancillary equipment, including software for the Management
Information System.
Part C: Ministry of Communication
(a)   Strengthening the capability of the Ministry of Communications to regulate the
telecommunications sector and monitor performance in the Sector.
5.    Loan Effectiveness and Start-up: To ensure timely implementation of the project,
conditions of effectiveness included: (i) appointment of financial management consultants; (ii)
furnish the Bank with audited financial statements for 1987; and (iii) issuance of letters of
invitation for project management consultants. Conditions (ii) and (iii) were fulfilled by the end
of 1990. However, the appointment of financial management consultants was delayed by almost
a year. The loan became effective on June 10, 1991.
6.    Chronology of Project Implementation: Within one year of Board approval, the project
appeared to be going well. By November 1991, contract awards worth US$46 million equivalent
had been agreed to by the Bank. Thereafter there was a change in NITEL's top management and
very little progress was made in project implementation for three years. By early 1993 only two
contracts for outside plant extension, amounting to US$15.5 million, had been signed and NITEL
was not making any progress on preparing of bid documents for new components. Furthermore,
the project management consultants were not in place. British Telecom Telconsult (BTT)
consultants were appointed in September 1992, but because of the tragic killing of one of the
consultants, BTT withdrew their staff from Nigeria in December 1992.
7.    Therefore, in early 1993, the Bank began a series of measures aimed at getting the project
moving. A high level mission in March 1993 set agreed implementation targets with NITEL and
around this time considerably strengthened its support from the resident mission. However, by
the third quarter of 1993 still little progress was evident. The Bank formed a new project team in
October 1993 to provide renewed focus on project supervision. The team sought to (a) ascertain
FGN and NITEL's commitment to the project and, if that commitment was established, (b)
ensure the consultants resumed work as quickly as possible, (c) set out an agreed ultimate
implementation schedule; and (d) ensure the Bank provided whatever additional support was
needed to help NITEL meet the schedule. The schedule comprised ten key implementation steps
which were to be met by September 1994. It was made clear to FGN and NITEL that the Bank's
ongoing support for the project would be determined on the basis of project performance
measured against this schedule.



5
8.    By September 1994, NITEL had made some progress on the agreed schedule. The
consultants were in place, new bids had been issued and evaluated and NITEL had, at the Bank's
suggestion, canceled US$30 million equivalent from the loan for an item which had been
superseded by a new optic fiber transmission system financed outside of the project. However,
the most critical step, signing of the switching contract, was not done pending government
agreement to the award decision for which the Bank had given its no objection. The project was
now about two and a half years behind schedule. Only US$11.7 million had been disbursed (of
which US$10 million was for the special account), leaving an undisbursed balance of US$183.3
million equivalent, excluding the canceled portion of US$30 million. Overall, it became evident
that the project could not be completed as planned and therefore the project development
objectives could not be attained due primarily to lack of due diligence on key implementation
matters. In addition to the unacceptable procurement delays other problems persisted. For
example, (i) NITEL had not been able to get close to meeting the covenant on the size of
accounts receivable; (ii) although financial management consultants had helped NITEL
strengthen the skills of its financial management group, virtually no progress had been made on
the much needed new accounting and management information systems; (iii) the training
program was seriously behind schedule; (iv) a needs list for overseas fellowships training, due on
May 1994, was still not provided by NITEL; (v) little progress had been made in strengthening
NITEL's planning competencies; and (vi) NITEL had not developed adequate project
management arrangements.
B.1  Institutional Performance
9.    The key objective of commercializing NITEL was partially achieved on paper, but not in
operational reality. In line with FGN's commercialization policy at that time, NITEL was
converted to a public limited company and the Government converted outstanding debt to equity.
NITEL then signed a performance contract with the Government. In reality these steps did not
create the desired level of NITEL independence from Government nor significantly improve
NITEL's operational or financial performance. The government retained considerable day-to-day
managerial and financial control over NITEL. For example; (i) NITEL was required to deposit
substantial cash in low interest government accounts; (ii) NITEL had limited autonomy to award
and sign contracts (amounts over $1 .Om had to be approved by Government) and (iii) in 1994,
the Government suspended all of NITEL' s top management layer pending the results of an
inquiry. A sole administrator was placed in charge but eventually was also replaced. The
appointment of a sole administrator reporting directly to the Minister clearly undermined the
autonomy of NITEL and its Board. The lack of actual independence from Government seriously
hampered any attempts by NITEL to realize true commercialization and in the end constrained
NITEL's ability to implement key aspects of the project. Neither was the Government receptive
to engaging in a dialogue of meaningful sector policies or reform. Government policy was for
NITEL to remain the monopoly provider of infrastructure. The Government did create the
Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC Decree No. 75 - November 1992) with the
objective of facilitating new entry and fair competition. However, although numerous small



6
"provisional" licenses have been issued, new entrants on value-added services were subject to
NITEL's dominant market presence, over which NCC has little control.
10.   The delays in assembling the project management consultant team coupled with NITEL's
limited institutional capacity were one of the major limiting factors in not fulfilling several of the
required institutional objectives. For example, NITEL was unable or unprepared to develop (i) a
realistic long term network development and investment program; (ii) a human resource
development program; and (iii) satisfactory bid documents (e.g. for vehicles).
B.2   Expansion and Rehabilitation - Proiect Implementation
11.   The only physical components of the project to be completed were (a) rehabilitation of
30,000 lines of switching equipment and (b) installation of external line plant to connect 39,000
customer lines.
12.   Although very little of the project was completed, it is important to note that during the
project period, NITEL improved somewhat the quality of service, reduced the fault rate and
increased call completion, and, by using bilateral and other sources of funds, met more than 80%
of the SAR targets on switching capacity and installed lines. All of these achievements with
regard to the physical components were financed by non-Bank loans, Government transfers and
internal cash generation and were not linked to the Bank-financed project. It is apparent that
during the process of setting up the SAR targets, NITEL's plans to implement additional
components were not discussed with the Bank prior to Loan signing. These components
included, among others, a fiber optic ring transmission link in Lagos in 1992-93 and a 20,000
line cellular mobile network in 1993-94. One of the reasons for the successful implementation of
the non-Bank financed components was that most of the physical components procured using
non-Bank funds did not have to follow International Competitive Bidding procedures, whereas,
Bank-financed components followed normal Bank procurement guidelines.
B.3   Technical Assistance
13.   Project Preparation: Under a Bank-financed PPF advance, 50 man-months of consultancy
services were used for the preparation of the project. The consultants' major tasks were to: (i)
review NITEL's investment program and propose a realistic program which would address the
most urgent medium-term requirements; (ii) investigate the specific problems of the Lagos
network and propose a rehabilitation program aimed at removing existing bottlenecks; and (iii)
prepare basic financial data for project preparation and examine NITEL's financial systems. As a
result of the consultants' findings, the original investment program earmarked for the Fifth Five-
Year Plan was substantially scaled down. The consultants provided considerable assistance to
the Government in developing long term sector policy which formed the basis for the Bank-
financed project.
14.   Project Implementation: Consultants were engaged to assist with project implementation
and institutional development in financial management and accounting, and project management
and planning. The objectives of the financial consultants were to: (i) strengthen the skills of the



7
finance group in NITEL; and (ii) review existing financial systems, make recommendations for
improvement and establish a management information system in NITEL. The employment of
financial consultants was a condition of loan effectiveness and was complied with in June 1991.
The consultants, who were NITEL's auditors at the time, made extensive recommendations
based on their prior knowledge and review of NITEL's systems. The consultants made progress
in strengthening the skills of financial group in NITEL but the management information systems
did not improve.
15.   The consultants' main tasks were to assist NITEL in: (i) developing its planning
capabilities; (ii) project procurement; (iii) supervising project implementation; and (iv)
developping a long-term network plan. The consultants provided essential support in preparing
bid documents and assisting with project management. Some progress was made in training
NITEL's planning staff. The consultants' work was hindered on occasions by lack of support
from NITEL. As mentioned above, there was a long delay in fully staffing the project
management consultants due to the death of one of the team members. This delay seriously
hindered project implementation.
B.4   Operational Performance
16.   Technical Performance. The technical objectives of the project in improving services and
expanding the network were not achieved. This ultimately resulted in the cancellation of
US$198 million from the loan. The only items completed were rehabilitation of 30,000 lines of
switching equipment, installation of some external line plant for about 39,000 lines, the purchase
of miscellaneous switching spares, and part of the project management consultancy.
17.   Financial Performance. The accounts of NITEL were audited by qualified external
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Although there have been some delays in presenting audited
financial statements, NITEL eventually met the due dates as required by the Loan Agreement.
NITEL 's financial performance has improved since 1992, but major problems remain. As a
result of the Government converting N5.5 billion of debt into equity, NITEL has become solvent.
Profits have also been recorded since 1992 mainly due to the large tariff increases, lower interest
charges (as a consequence of debt conversion) and the use of the official exchange rate (which is
less than the market rate) for converting foreign currency liabilities. With the exception of tile
unacceptably high level of accounts receivable, NITEL appears to have complied with the key
financial performance covenants. However, the overall financial relationship between NITEL
and the Government remained unsatisfactory. The Government was in serious arrears to NITEL
for telecommunications services throughout the period of the project, the on-lending
arrangements from the Government to NITEL have broken down and all of NITEL's substantial
cash balances were required to be deposited with the Central Bank or in low interest Government
bonds. Even though the audited statements of NITEL have rarely been qualified, the auditors
were not able to confirm the balances of deposits or arrears or loan amounts with the FGN in
most cases.
18.   Even though the financial performance of NITEL improved, the important improvements
to the Management Information System and the computerization of the financial accounting



8
system were never implemented. Consultants undertook detailed studies and made
recommendation regarding these components, but contracts for the recommended systems
were never signed.
C. Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
19. As has been described in the preceding sections, there were several factors which
constrained the implementation of the project.
(a)  Lack of NITEL and Government commitment to the project
(b)  Lack of autonomy by NITEL from Government day-to-day control coupled with a
deteriorating political environment; and
(c)  Institutional and managerial limitations within NITEL as reflected by the delays in
procurement, poor project management and lack of coordination with the consultants.
The Bank could have perhaps moved earlier to address the mounting project delays
and problems, but it seems unlikely that this would have affected the ultimate outcome.
D. Proiect Sustainability
20. Questions of project sustainability apply only to that minor part of the project that was
implemented (switching rehabilitation, outside plant and network planning). As mentioned
early, at the Bank's request and with the agreement of NITEL, the consultants undertook a
review of NITEL's operational practices. The objective was to determine if improvement
would be needed to ensure project sustainability. The report highlighted the need for serious
review of most of NITEL's operational practices. Based on this report, plus the poor service
quality standards of NITEL' s network, the prospects for substainability of the completed
project components are low.
E. Bank Performance
21. The Bank's performance under the Project could have been improved. Throughout the
project period from design through implementation, there was a lack of continuity in the
composition of the team responsible for the project. Between 1991 and 1993, with the
exception of the Task Manager, the composition of the supervision team that visited or
worked on the project changed from mission to mission. This placed an additional burden
on the missions to understand the difficult country, NITEL, and project circumstances. It
also placed an additional burden on the Nigerian counterparts. To make matters worse, the
relationship between the Bank and NITEL's new management deteriorated in 1992/93 due
to disagreement over project issues and this increased delays. It is reasonable to conclude
that strong remedial measures should have been taken earlier in the project, especially in
light of the poor performance of the Bank's Nigeria portfolio. The Bank repeatedly



9
communicated to NITEL that steps to suspend the project would be taken unless
implementation improved, however, very little action was taken in this respect until late
1994. It was from 1993 that the Bank substantially increased its effort to improve project
implementation by strengthening support from the resident mission and forming a new
project team. From then on, the frequency of missions was considerably increased.
22. One of the main complaints of NITEL has been that the Bank procedures and
conditionalities were extremely difficult to comply with. This was most evident during the
preparation of the bidding documents and long term investment plans. In this respect, the
Bank could have provided more support in assisting NITEL to develop these, early in the
project cycle, given that the appointment of the management consultants was delayed by
over two years.
F. Borrower Performance
23. The overall performance of NITEL and the Government with regard to the Project was
unsatisfactory. This was a lack of transparency in procurement. The key drawback facing
NITEL was the lack of adequate institutional capacity in the areas of design, planning and
procurement. Even though consultants were provided for to overcome the constraint and to
eventually rectify them, there were considerable delays in putting into place the consultancy
team. Most of the delays for procurement were caused by the NITEL's inability to prepare
and thereafter evaluate procurement documents to the satisfaction of the Bank. In addition
to this, further delays were caused by the Government's inaction and delayed approval of
cleared contracts.
24. The inaction and inability of NITEL to satisfactorily comply with the conditions of the Loan
Agreement finally led to the cancellation of 88 percent of the loan amount on the grounds of
"Lack of Due Diligence".
G. Assessment of Outcome
25. The outcome of the project was highly unsatisfactory. None of the physical, institutional,
and policy objectives of the project were fully achieved. Both NITEL and the Bank have
spent substantial resources on the project with few tangible results.
H. Future Operation
26. The Bank is unlikely to finance a project of similar scope and size in Nigeria in the future.
The possibility of a Bank involvement in the sector would depend on the commitment and
action by the Government to implement substantial sector reform including liberalization of
service provision coupled with opening up to the sector to private participation.



10
I.  Key Lessons Learned
27. Lesson 1 - Institutional development of monopolies is ineffective in Bank-financed projects
in the absence of Government commitment, or perceptible readiness, to an appropriate
policy and regulatory framework and operating environmentJbr the enterprise in the
concerned sector. International experience has shown that government-owned monopoly
utilities are generally poor performers and very difficult to change through institutional
development projects, even when substantial investment funding is included. In
teleconmmunications, because of advances in technology and the potential profitability of the
industry, liberalization and private participation are much more effective remedies. At the
time of project inception, however, these were not options for a Bank telecommunications
project in Nigeria. Nonetheless, it should be noted that telecommunications projects with
similar objectives and components to this project have been reasonably successful in a
number of other countries. Therefore, there are other lessons to be derived from the failure
of the project.
28. Lesson 2 - Autonomy is not an automatic result of corporatization: A major reason for
failure of the project was NITEL's lack of autonomy to make its own decisions on day-to-
day management. In agreeing to any corporatization, the Bank should carefully study the
details of the corporatization, including the structure and responsibilities of the Board and
the day-to-day autonomy of the management to ensure that proper autonomy and
accountability are embodied in the terms. Also, the Bank should have been alert to the
protracted implementation problems and brought stronger action far earlier than it did in the
project.
29. Lesson 3 - The Bank should consider portfolio remedies when systematic and common
problems occur with project implementation throughout a country. The Bank should the
undertake a major project review within two years of loan effectiveness. Bank-financed
projects in Nigeria in recent years, including during the period of this project, have generally
had serious implementation problems. This project was treated as a stand alone problem
project. The Bank may have had greater success if it had included the project in a portfolio
remedial process - particularly since a major part of the problem rested with the Government
itself.
30. Lesson 4 - Consultants can play a critical role in project implementation. The long delays
before consultants were in place seriously jeopardized the project start-up phase. If the
consultants had been in place far earlier, some of the project components may have been
completed with reasonable success. The Bank should have recognized his and taken action
far earlier. Better still, the appointment of key project management consultants should be
made a condition of loan negotiations.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:          Summary of Assessment
Table 2:          Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:          Project Timetable
Table 4:          Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
and Actual
Table 5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:          Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:          Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:         Project Costs
Table 8B:         Project financing
Table 9:          Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:         Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:         Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Map (IBRD No. 21860)



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of             Substantial     Partial     Ne2Ii0ible       Not Applicable
Obiectives                       (./)          (/)             (1)               ()
Micro Policies                    00                            0 
Sector Policies                                 O               E0  I             0
Financial Objectives              0             El              0                 0
Institutional Development         0             0               I                 0
Physical Objectives               EJ            0               El                0
Poverty Reduction                 0             0               0                 IA
Gender Issues                     0             0               0                 IA
Other Social Objectives    *0                   0               0                 IA
Environmental Objectives          0             0               E                 IA
Public Sector Management          0             0               0                 IA
Private Sector Development        0             0               0                 IA
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                    Unlikely            Uncertain
(V)                          (/)               (V')
0                            I                  0
Highlv
C. Bank Performance          satisfactory                  Satisfactorv       Deficient
(/)                          (/)                (/)
Identification                    El                            IA                0
Preparation Assistance            0                             IA                0
Appraisal                         0                             IA                0
Supervision                       0                             IA                E
Hihhlv
D. Borrower Performance      satisfactory                  Satisfactory        Deficient
(V)                          (/)               (1)
Preparation                       E                             IA                0
Implementation                    E                             0                 IA
Covenant Compliance               0                            E                  El
Hi2hlv      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Ifi2hlv
E. Assessment of Outcome     satisfactory      (1)             (V)          Unsatisfactory
(/) 
El            0                                 IA



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
This was the first loan to Nigeria for the Telecommunications Sector, therefore there are no
related loans or credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
[|   |Steps in Project Cycle          [Date Planned        | Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
1.  Identification                    September 15, 1986   September 15, 1986
2.  Preparation                       1987 - 1988          1987 - 1988
3.  Appraisal                         April, 1989          April 10, 1989
4.  Negotiations                      March, 1990          March 23-30, 1990
5.  Board Presentation                June 26, 1990        June 26, 1990
6.  Signing                           July 31, 1990        December 10, 1990
7.  Effectiveness                     March 10, 1991       June 10, 1991
8.  Project Completion                December 31, 1994   Only a very small part of project had
been completed in December, 1995.
9.  Loan Closing                      December 31, 1995   December 31, 1995



14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ OOOs)
Appraisal Estimate     Actual          Actual as a % of
Estimate
Fiscal Year 1988           200               000                 0.0
Fiscal Year 1989           700               000                 0.0
Fiscal Year 1990           700               000                 0.0
Fiscal Year 1991         20,000              000                 0.0
Fiscal Year 1992         78,000             10,860               13.9
Fiscal Year 1993         166,000            10,860               6.5
Fiscal Year 1994         207,000            11,690               5.4
Fiscal Year 1995 (a)      225,000            14.050                6.2
Fiscal Year 1996         225,000           19.785 (b)            8.8
(a)  US$ 30 million was cancelled from the loan in November, 1994. A further $ 168 million
was cancelled in April, 1995.
(b)  An undisbursed amount of $ 7.215 million was cancelled on June 27, 1996 when the loan
was closed.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation
Item                 Procurement                 SAR Estimate                      Actual
Implementation
1. Management Consultancy          Contract                 3rd Quarter 1990               2nd quarter 1992
Delivery                 Through 1994               Through December 1995
2. Training                                             Through the Project period            Not Done
4. Switching                       Contract                 4th quarter 1990         Award to contractor in 1994, but
Completion/Installation        3rd quarter 1994              contract not signed
5. External Line Plant             Contract                 4th quarter 1990           Partially completed in 1995
Completion/Installation        3rd quarter 1994
6. Long Distance                   Contract                  1st quarter 1992                 Not Done
Transmission              Completion/Installation        3rd quarter 1994
7. Space Communication             Contract                 3rd quarter 1991                  Not Done
Completior/Installation       2nd quarter 1993
8. Power and Air                   Contract                 3rd quarter 1991                  Not Done
Conditioning              Completion/Installation        3rd quarter 1993
9. Telephone                       Contract                 3rd quarter 1991                  Not Done
Completion/Installation     through project period
10. Buildings                       Contract                 4th quarter 1990                  Not Done
Completion/Installation     through project period
11. Vehicles                        Contract                  1 st quarter 1991                Not Done
Completion/Installation        4th quarter 1991



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations (Performance Indicators)
Fiscal Year Ending December { 1991 Target [ 1991 Actual    1992 Target    1992 Actual    1993 Target    1993 Actual    1994 Target    1994 Actual
1  Exchange Capacity
Added in Year                      89,000             na              0         47,333              0            -519        174,000         89,446
Total line Yr end                 503,330        450,516        503,330        497,849         503,330        497,330        677,330        586,776
2. Connected Lines
Added in Year                      30,140                        38,060          26,768          8,000         21,343         44,000         26,428
Total line Yr end                 328,150        294,166        366,210         320,934        394,510        342,287        438,510        368,715
4. Total Staff                          18,048         16,207          18,310         15,800         19,725         15,096         21,925          14,461
Staffl/l,000 lines                      55             55             50             49             50              44             50             39
5.  'Rate of Return on average            13%         27.01%             14%         66.13%            13%          25.1%            14%          31.13%
N FA                                        _  _  _  _ _     _  _ _  _  __                  _  _  _ _
6. Operating Ratio                        32%            50%            33%             37%            35%            44%            34%            65%
7. Current Ratio                           1.5           0.62             1.8           1.18            2.2           1.38            2.9            1.09   O
8. Debt Service Coverage                   2.6             na            3.0             9.8            3.5            2.3            4.1            0.9
Even though the Telecommunications Project did not achieve the desired project objectives, except for a small proportion of the physical installations, NITEL has
achieved most of the performance indicators mentioned in Staff Appraisal Report. The additions to the installed capacity have been financed by (i) a Siemens
credit (ii) by Bankers Trust/Alcatel Loan and (iii) by internally generated funds. The decrease in the staffing ratio is commendable. NITEL has not achieved
some other performance indicators like call cotnpletion rate (20% compared to SAR estimates of 70% for local and national calls in 1994), and Accounts
Receivable as the number of days equivalent of revenues (230 days compared to 60 mentioned in the SAR for 1994). However, caution is required on respect of
a number of the above indicators. There is doubt as to the accuracy of the number of lines connected and in exchange capacity. It appears that a substantive
portion of these lines are not working. The rate of return on average Net Fixed Assets would be reduced substantially by a fair revaluation of fixed assets.
1 Revaluation of fixed assets would significantly decrease the actual rate of return to below the covenant level of 10%.



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                         Purpose                             Status                            Impact of Study
Long Term Planning              Definition of Long term               Completed in 1989                  Development of the Project
Requirements for NITEL
Managent Information         To implement a Management                Completed in 1994                        Not implemented
System study                      Information System
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                                          Actual/Latest
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ E stim ate     (a)
ITEM                                    Local Costs        Foreign Costs               Total         Local Costs        Foreign Costs               Total
Switching Equipment -Expans                     6.9               112.2                118.1
Switching Equipment - Rehab                     0.1                 5.1                  5.2                                     3.4                  3.4
External Line Plant - Expansion                18.9               133.8                152.7                 2.0                 10.8                12.8
External Line Plant - Rehab                     4.2                37.3                 41.6
Transmission - expansion                        1.3                 11.2                12.5
Transmission - rehabilitation                   0.2                  1.3                 1.5
Space Communication                             0.0                 3.5                  3.5
Telephone                                       0.1                 10.4                10.5
Buildings                   _                  31.3                 0.0                 31.3
Power Rehab                                     0.2                  1.3                 1.5
Vehicles                                        3.6                 2.3                  5.9                            _
Training                                        ()t.                7.0                  7.1
Consultancy                   _                 0.5                  8.2                 8.7                 0.5                 4.3                  4.8
Misc Equipment                                  0.()                 1.2                 1.2
Customs Duties                                 45.3                 0.0                 45.3                 2.5                                      2.5
Int. During Construction                        0.)                35.9                 35.9                                      .0(                 1.0
Total Project Cost                            112.6 ]             370.9 [              483.5 1               5.01                19.5                24.5
(a) ICR Estimatcs Of thc total expected project cost of US$483 million, less than 5% has been committed. Of the IBRD financed amount, US$198 million was
canceled. The US$1 10 million loan for foreign costs from other co-financiers (i.e. OECF) is not yet effective. 'Ihe only items quoted in the estimate are those
funded in part by the loan. No other project cost information was available.



Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ mnillions)
Appraisal                                         Actual/Latest
Estimate                                          Estimate (a)
Source                          Local Costs    Foreign Costs           Total      Local Costs    Foreign Costs           Total
IBRD/IDA                                              225.0            225.0              5.0            19.8             24.8
Other Sources             .                           110.1            110.1
NITEL                                112.6             35.9            148.5
Total                                112.6            370.9            483.5              5.0 [           19.8            24.8
(a) The only items quoted in the ICR estimate are those which were funded in part by the Bank loan (Table 8A).
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
As only minor physical components of the project, and no sector policy objectives have been implemented, the Economic Financial
rate of return for the project has not been calculated.



Table 10: Status of Le2al Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant Type          Present     Original       Revised       Description of Covenant         Comments
status      Fulfilim       Fulfilim
ent Date      ent    I
Date 
Loan         3.01 (b)   Project Implementation  Complied                               Establish a Project Management
Arrangements                                                  Team
Loan         4.04(i)    Project Implementation  Complied    10/31/90                   Furnish Bank with a draft
Arrangements                                                  performance contract
between NITEL and the
Govemment by 10/31/90
Loan         4.04(ii)    Policy               Complied    1/1/91                       Commence implementation of
Contract 1/1/91
Loan         4.05       Financial             Not                                      Reduce outstanding bills receivable  Estimated at 204 days at
Compli                                  to the following days            December 31,
ed                                       equivalent of revenues          1994
(i) 120 days by 12/31/90
(ii) 90 days by 12131/92
___________                         (iii) 60 days by 12/31/94
Loan         4.06(a)    Project Implementation  Complied                               Prepare Annual analysis of its
Arrangements                                                  performance against selected
performance targets
Loan         4.06(b)    Project Implementation  Complied                               By Oct. 31 each year, determine
Arrangements                                                 jointly with the Bank the
performance indicators to be
applied in the above covenant
Loan         4.06(c)    Project Implementation  Complied                               Provide quarterly progress reports
Arrangements                                                 to the Bank, and, include, in
annual financial reports, an
analysis of progress against
financial targets
Loan         5.01 (a)    Financial            Complied                                 For each financial year have its
records and accounts for the
Special Account audited by
independent Auditors and
provide a copy by June 30
each year
Loan         5.01 (b)    Financial            Soon                                     Furnish the Bank by June 30 each   Draft audited accounts
year copies of audited annual   provided for 1994.
accounts for the preceding      Final audited
year together with the          accounts expected
auditor's report. Provide      by November 30,
copies of unaudited accounts    1995.
by April 30 each year



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement   Section    Covenant Type           Present      Original       Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
status       Fulfillm      Fulfilim
ent Date      ent
Date
Loan          5.01 (c)    Financial            Complied                                  With respect of Statement of     No SOE's used on the
Expenses NITEL shall ensure     project.
that proper records are
maintained and audited in
conjunction with the annual
Company audit
Loan          5.02       Financial             Complied                                  After December 1991, maintain an   However, if assets are
annual rate of return on the    revalued using
average value of net fixed      estimates, it
assets of 10%                   appears that the
covenant is not
complied with.
Loan          5.03       Financial             Complied                                  For each year after 1989, produce
adequate funds from internal
resources to cover local costs
of the investment program for
that year
Loan          5.04       Financial             Complied                                  For each year after 1989, unless  While the available
the Bank otherwise agrees,      information is
NITEL shall not incur any debt  uncertain, it
unless it maintains a debt      appears that the
service coverage of at least    covenant is
1.5 during the period of the    complied with.
debt
Loan          5.05       Financial             Complied                                  Except as the Bank shall agree,
NITEL shall not incur any debt
if after the incurrance of such
debt its debt to equity ratio is
greater than 60/40.
Loan          5.07       Financial             Soon                                      By Oct. 31 each year, review with    Five year capital
the Bank, NITEL's capital        development plan
expenditure program for the      not yet provided to
succeeding 5 years              the Bank
Loan          7.01 (a)    Financial            Complied                                  NITEL to furnish the Bank with
audited accounts for FY1987
Loan          7.01 (b)   Project Implementation  Complied                                NITEL to employ financial
management consultants and
issue Letters of invitation for
other consultant services.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                         Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
There have not been any significant lack of compliance with any
N.A.                                 applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement.
N.A. Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned                          Revised                           Actual (a)
Project Cycle          Weeks            US$             Weeks             US$             Weeks             US$
Preparation to Appraisal   N.A.         N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                    30              71,000 (b)
Appraisal                N.A.           N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                    16              37,920 (b)
Negotiations through     N.A.           N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                    20              47,400 (b)
Board Approval
Supervision              N.A.           N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                   146             424,760 (c)
Completion               N.A.           N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                                    57,400 (c)
Total                    N.A.           N.A.             N.A.             N.A.                   234                638,580
N.A.: Not Available
(a) Data shown are actual at project (reduced) project completion/loan closing, end of December 1995, on the basis of available project's files
and supervision forms 590's.
(b) At FY90 (appraisal, negotiations, loan approval time) average staff-week cost of US$ 2,370.
(c) At FY96 (project completion/loan closing time) average staff-week cost of US$ 2,870.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Mission
Number Days              Specialized             Implemen-  Develop-
Month/    of      In              Staff Skills             tation/      ment                             Type of Problems
Stage oi Prolect Cycle            Year  Persons Field            RePresented I a         Overall Status  Impact
IdentNfication                   Nov. 86     2      14             Eng., Fin. A                                 -Development planning capability; financial autonomy.
Preparation 1                    Feb. 87     1      5           Fh. A.; Mgt. Spec.                              -Investment program financing; tariff structure.
Preparation 2                    Jun-87      2      8              Erig.; Fin. A                                -Sector policy; NITELs organization.
Preparation 3                    Nov. 87     3      18             Eng.; Fin. A.                                -Sector policy: PPF preparation for Development planning and organization.
Pre-appraisal                    Aug. 88     2      8              Eng.; Fin. A.                                -Project componentUimpiernentation; NITEL financial situation.
Aooraisa throuah Board Approval
Appraisal                        Apr. 89     3      14       Eng.; Fh. A.; Mgmt. Spec.                          -Development program finalization; sector intemal reform.
Final EPS                        Jul. 89     -       -
Pre-Negotiations; Appraisal Update   Nov. 89  2     10             Eng.; Fin. A.                                Telecoms policy paper project co-financing.
Negotiations (Technical)         Mar. 90     4                  Eng.; Fin. A; Econ.
Negotiations (Final)             Mar. 90                           Mgmt. Spec.
Bard Approval                    Jun. 90
Loan Signing                     Dec. 90
Loan Effectiveness               Jun. 91                                                                        Effectiveness delayed by 3 months due to late hiring of consutants for project
implementation.
Supervision 1 (project stan-up)  Jun. 91    2      10            Fin. A.; Econ.               2                -NITELs financial management
Supervision 2                   Feb. 92    2       8              Eng.; Fin. A.               2                -Project implementation start-up;
Supervision 3                   Mar. 93     5      8           Eng.; Fin. A.; Econ.           3                -Delayed action on procurement; overall implementation review; no audits
Div. Chief; Mgmt. Spec.
Supervision 4                   Oct. 93     5      10         Eng. TM; Eng.; Fin. A.         U/c          U    -No progress in procurement; Project priorities reconsidered.
Proct; Mgmt. Spec.
Supervision 5                   Feb. 94    5       12        Eng. TM; Eng.; Fin. A.;          U           U    -Poor project management; $30m rehabilitation component to be canceled; delay
Proct; Mgmt. Spec.                              in training program and procurement.
Supervision 6                   Jun. 94     5      9          Eng. TM; Eng.; Fin. A.          U           U    -Some progress in implementation, tariffs increased.
Econ.; Proct. Spec.
Supervision 7                   Aug. 94    4       5         Eng. TM; Fin. A.; Econ.;         U           U    -Review of implementation targets; slow disbursements and procurement
Mgmt. Spec.                                  commitments.
Supervision 8                   Oct. 94     3      7            Eng. TM; Rn. A.;             HU                -No due diligence and effectiveness in taking actions for project implementation;
P. Sec. Spec.                                NITEL Board suspended.
Suspension of Loan Disbursement,   Nov. 95                                                                      -onty about USS 20M of total US$1 95M loan committed; no further commitment/
Cancellation of US$168M by Bank                                                                                 are canceled.
Supervision 9/Completion         Oct. 95     2      8          P. Sec. Spec.; Fin. A.         HU           U    -Overall objectives of reduced project unmet.
M. AW   C- -Eng. E %*-.-n,  r   AR- .i.i. -E, E-o9n* 4-M.iPr, M yW- oP--m t3 5p.v!W -L.9. - L.-y,r TnT..kMn.   WtV_; P. S.; PU9iI 5WaSP.d.W
a K.r.tv -.w.p-      Ug iFYlr   4 . I - p.W  1,: 2 - idOd. 3    P.- pOhsm- i         IPdl l i1.  rm - l' FY94 -'I . NS - hi"lY .hdOt S -.SO,.;  U -V  .ft:M; HU -hhly ,n.dM.
. N  PMl.d W -   0r     d .nl d. (_I.d FO- r4 - b don.



23
APPENDIX A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (LOAN 3236-UNI)
FINAL SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
Aide-Memoire
(14 pages)



24
Aide Memoire
Nigeria - First Telecommunications Project (Loan 3236-UNI)
Completion Mission - October 1995
Introduction
1. A mission comprising Paul Bermingham, Public Enterprises Specialist (mission leader),
and Ramendra Basu, Consultant, visited Nigeria from October 11 to 18, 1995. The
objectives of the mission were to (a) review the status of those components of the First
Telecomrnunications Project which are in the course of implementation; (b) make
arrangements for the closure of the project (scheduled for December 31, 1995) and the
preparation of the Irnplementation Completion Report; and (c) discuss with the Ministry of
Communications, the National Cornmunications Commission (NCC) and Nigeria
Telecommunications PLC (NITEL) the future direction of the sector. The mission would
like to thank the Honourable Minister of Communications and officials of the Ministry, the
Chief Executive and officials of NITEL, and the Chief Executive of the NCC for their kind
cooperation and assistance. The mission's findings are set out in this aide memoire.
Background
2. The loan agreement in the amount of $225 million was approved by the Board of the Bank
on June 26, 1990, signed on December 10, 1990, and became effective on June 10, 1991.
Serious delays arose during project implementation, reflected in disbursements totaling less
than 5% of the loan amount by early 1994. An action program was agreed with NITEL to
get the project back on track. Renewed implementation efforts by NITEL were
supplemented by increased supervision from the Bank. It was agreed by NITEL and the
Bank that an amount of $ 30 million should be canceled from the loan amount as the
equipment which it was intended to finance was superseded by new technology. This was
effected in August 1991. However, further delays arose and by the end of 1994, when it
became clear to the Bank that the objectives of the project (see paragraph 9 below) could not
be met, the Bank commenced a series of steps which culminated in cancellation of a further
$168 million in March 1995. The remaining $27 million was to finance three contracts
which NITEL had entered into prior to the cancellation date. The final amount of loan
disbursements is estimated at $ 19 million. The loan is scheduled to close on December 31,
1995.
Status of Project Implementation
3. The mission reviewed the status of the continuing components of the project. The provision
by TCIL of external plant for around 39,000 lines in the Lagos area at a cost of $ 12.8
million of which $ 10.8 million is financed from the loan, is scheduled to be completed by
the end of November 1995. The rehabilitation by Siemens of switching equipment with a
capacity of around 30,000 lines, at a cost of DM 5.1 million all of which is financed from
the loan, is scheduled to be completed by December. In the light of the reduced scope of the



25
mission agreed with NITEL's suggestion that no further project management services would be
required from BT Telconsult after December 31, 1995.
4.    NITEL requested earlier in the year an extension of the closing date to accommodate
retention payments which are due to be paid in 1996 under the above contracts. It appears that
only one such payment arises - an amount of around $600,000 due to be paid to TCIL in late
1996. The mission advised NITEL that it would be difficult to justify an extension of the closing
date for almost a year for this amount. However, the Bank would accept an arrangement
whereby NITEL would release the retention payment by the end of 1995 upon submission of
adequate security from the contractor, such as a bank guarantee or performance bond. NITEL
would forward the necessary contract amendment to the Bank for its no objection. No extension
to the closing date would therefore be required. The mission advised that disbursements should
only be made from the special account until the balance is exhausted, following which
disbursements will be made directly from the loan. The mission advised NITEL that payments
could be made up to April 30, 1996 for work done or services rendered before December 31,
1995.
5.    The mission reviewed the status of compliance with the covenants in the loan agreement.
A schedule setting out the position is attached as Annex I. A number of covenants are in breach,
namely the level of accounts receivable, the provision of the audited accounts for 1994, and
prosision of various items of inforrnation to the Bank
6.    Comments on NITEL's operational performance are set out in Annex II.
7.    The mission reviewed NITEL's recent financial performance and position. The audited
accounts for 1994 have not yet been finalized and the review was therefore based on the draft
annual accounts. Comments on the financial performance and position of NITEL as reflected in
the draft accounts are set out in Annex III.
8.    The mission noted that the Government had taken steps towards restoring norrnal
management structures in NITEL. Prof. B. Bajoga has been appointed Managing Director and
Chief Executive in place of the Sole Adrninistrator. The directors and officials who had
previously been suspended and replaced by the Sole Administrator have been retired.
Appointment of the remaining directors and senior managers is expected soon.



26
Implementation Completion Report
9.    The mission discussed the outcome of the project with NITEL. Both parties agreed that
the project had failed to meet its objectives. The position is summarized in the following table:
Objective                    Status
Support the guarantor's      No specific project component was identified to support
efforts to develop sound    this objective. While value added services have been
policies for the sector.    opened up to private participation, a regulator has been
established, and several provisional licenses issued, little
substantive progress has been made in increasing the
levels of access to and quality of service. The existing
policies and structures are considered inadequate to
attract the investment and expertise considered
necessary to develop the sector.
Facilitate full             While NITEL has been converted to a PLC and a
cornmercialization of NITEL.   performance contract has been signed with Government,
it is not managed in a commercial manner. It has been
provided with minimal managerial and commercial
autonomy, with serious consequences for its financial
position.
Improve the quality of       The range of services remains restricted due to
telecornmunications services   inadequate capacity and quality of service is significantly
below projected levels.
Expand the Borrower's        As less than 10% of the loan amount has been used,
facilities to meet the most  minimal expansion of the Borrower's facilities has taken
urgent demand.               place.
Improve the Borrower's       While profitability has improved, overall financial
financial performance.       performance is weak. In the absence of a revaluation of
fixed assets, NITEL's rate of return on revalued assets is
difficult to measure, but seems to be well below the
required level; it is in arrears on its debt service
obligations to Government; accounts receivable remain at
very high level; it is forced to place its cash balances on
deposit at sub-market rates; and a shortage of skilled staff
resulting in weak accounting and financial management
systems, etc.
9.    While specific examples can be cited of how both NITEL and the Bank could have
performed better during implementation, the main reason for the failure of the project was the
inadequate policy framework and sector structure within which the project was implemented.
The deteriorating macroeconomic environment, in particular distorted interest and exchange
rates, also had an adverse impact. While on paper NITEL was commercialized through its
conversion to a PLC and the signing of a performance contract with the Federal Government, in
substance it remains little more than a Government department. The Federal Government must
approve tariffs, salary levels.staff changes at senior levels, all investments of more than $1
million, and all financing decisions. It fails to pay its bills for service on time (it is NITEL's



27
largest customer), compels NITEL to invest its cash with the Central Bank; or in treasury bills at
significantlv negative real interest rates, and unreconciled differences exist on balances due to
Government from NITEL. For almost 18 months, the entire board of NITEL, including the
Managing Director, and senior management were suspended and replaced by a "sole
administrator". The institutional development components of the project have had little success.
10.  In the light of the cancellation of the loan and the above comments on sector policies and
structures, little discussion took place on the operational phase of the project. (See also
paragraph 12 below on the future direction of the sector).
11.   A timetable was agreed for completing the ICR. The Bank and NITEL would exchange
their contributions to the report by November 30, 1995. Comments will be exchanged by
December 31, 1995. The Bank aims to complete the ICR by March 31, 1996.
Future Direction of the Sector
12.   The mission met with the Honourable Minister of Communications, Major General A.T.
Olanrewaju, and officials of the Ministry. The reasons for the failure of the project were
discussed. The mission emphasized the importance which the Bank attaches to the development
of an efficient telecommunications sector for the overall development of the country and
Nigeria's ability to compete internationally. The immediate investment requirement is estimated
at not less than $1 billion, with several billion dollars needed over the next decade if Nigeria is to
be integrated in the global information infrastructure. In the Bank's view existing sector policies
and structures have failed. Far-reaching and fundamental chanees are required, within the
framework of an improving macroeconomic environment, if the sector is to attract the levels of
investment and expertise which it needs. The mission noted the actions which have been taken
in recent months to improve NITEL's situation, in particular restoring normal management
arrangements, a vigorous program of following up accounts receivable, and a proposed initiative
to address malpractices. A working group has also been established to address sector policy in
the future. The Government and NITEL indicated that they would welcome continued Bank
support for the sector. The mission advised that such support could only be considered within
the context of the overall country assistance strategy agreed between the Federal Government. It
was agreed that the primary initial focus of any support would be on policy and regulatory issues.
The Government agreed to provide the Bank with a copy of the draft policy statement when it
becomes available. The mission agreed to provide the Government with information on policy
development in other countries.



Nigeria - Telecommunications Project
Implementation Completion Report
Status of Leigal Covenants
Agreement   Section    [Covenant Type        Present    Original     Revised    [Description of Covenant    Comments
l                   status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan         3.01 (b)    Project             Complied                             Establish a Project
Implementation                                          Management Team
Arrangements
Loan         4.04(i)     Project             Complied   10/31/90                  Fumish Bank with a draft
Implementation                                          performance contract
Arrangements                                            between NITEL and the
Government by 10/31/90
Loan         4.04(ii)    Policy              Complied   I/1/91                    Commence implementation
of Contract 1/1/91
Loan         4.05        Financial           Not                                  Reduce outstanding bills  Estimated at 204 days at    x
Complied                            receivable to the following    December 31, 1994
days equivalent of revenues
(i) 120 days by 12/31/90
(ii) 90 days by 12/31/92
(iii) 60 days by 12/31/94
Loan         4.06(a)     Project             Complied                             Prepare Annual analysis of
Implementation                                          its performance against
Arrangements                                            selected performance targets
Loan         4.06(b)     Project             Complied                             By Oct. 31 each year,
Implementation                                          determine jointly with the
Arrangements                                            Bank the performance
indicators to be applied in
the above covenant
Annex I - Page I



Nigeria - Telecommunications Project
Implementation Completion Report
Loan          4.06(c)    l Project             Complied  I           -                Provide quarterly progress
Implementation                                             reports to the Bank, and,
Arrangements                                               include, in annual financial
reports, an analysis of
progress against financial
_______              _____________________                                      targets
Loan          5.01 (a)     Financial           Complied                               For each financial year have
its records and accounts for
the Special Account audited
by independent Auditors and
provide a copy by June 30
each year
Loan          5.01 (b)     Financial           Soon                                   Furnish the Bank by June 30  Draft audited accounts
each year copies of audited   provided for 1994.
annual accounts for the    Final audited accounts
preceding year together with  expected by November
the auditor's report        30, 1995.
Provide copies of unaudited
accounts by April 30 each
year
Loan          5.01 (c)     Financial           Complied                               With respect of Statement of  No SOE's used on the
Expenses NITEL shall        project.
ensure that proper records
are maintained and audited
in conjunction with the
annual Company audit
Loan          5.02         Financial           Complied                               After December 1991,        However, if assets are
maintain an annual rate of    revalued using
return on the average value   estimates, it appears that
of net fixed assets of 10%  the covenant is not
complied with.
Annex I - Page 2



Nigeria - Telecommunications Project
Implementation Completion Report
Loan          5.03         Financial            Complied                                For each year after 1989,
produce adequate funds
from internal resour-ces to
cover local costs of the
investment program for that
year
Loan          5.04         Financial            Complied                               For each year after 1989,    While the available
unless the Bank otherwise    information is uncertain,
agrees, NITEL shall not     it appears that the
incur any debt unless it    covenant is complied
maintains a debt service    with.
coverage of at least 1.5
during the period of the debt
Loan          5.05         Financial            Complied                               Except as the Bank shall
agree, NITEL shall not incur
any debt if after the
incurrance of such debt its
debt to equity ratio is greater
than 60/40.
Loan          5.07         Financial            Soon                                   By Oct. 31 each year,        Five year capital
review with the Bank,       development plan not
NITEL's capital expenditure  yet provided to the Bank
program for the succeeding
5 years
Loan          7.01 (a)     Financial            Complied                               NITEL to furnish the Bank
with audited accounts for
FY1987
Loan          7.01 (b)     Project              Complied                               NITEL to employ financial
Implementation                                              management consultants and
issue Letters of invitation
._________________________   ____________________for  other  consultant  services.
Annex I - Page 3



Annex 11
Nigeria - First Telecommunications Project
Final Supervision Mission
ComDarison of Proiect Costs
(US$ millions)
Appraisal                                           Actual/Latest
Estimate                                            Estimate
ITEM                              Local Costs j   Foreign Costs           Total       Local Costs    Foreign Costs             Total
Switching Equipment -Expans              6.9             112.2            118.1
Switching Equipment - Rehab              0.1              5.1               5.2                                3.4              3.4
External Line Plant - Expansion         18.9             133.8            152.7              2.0              10.8             12.8
External Line Plant - Rehab              4.2             37.3              41.6
Transmission - expansion                 1.3              11.2             12.5
Transmission - rehabilitation            0.2               1.3              1.5
Space Communication                      0.0               3.5              3.5
Telephone                                0.1              10.4             10.5
Buildings                               31.3               0.0             31.3
Power Rehab                              0.2               1.3              1.5
Vehicles                                 3.6               2.3              5.9
Training                                 0.1               7.0              7.1 
Consultancy                              0.5               8.2              8.7              0.5               4.3              4.8
Misc Equipment                           0.0               1.2              1.2
Customs Duties                          45.3              0.0              45.3              2.5                                2.5
Int. During Construction                 0.0             35.9              35.9                                1.0              1.0
Total Project Cost                     112.6 l          370.9 l           483.5 l            5.0              19.5 [           24.5
Of the total expected project cost of US$483 million, less than 5% has been committed. Of the IBRD financed amount, US$198 million was
canceled. The US$110 million loan for foreign costs from other co-financiers (i.e. OECF) is not yet effective. Since the loan has not yet been
closed as yet, the final project cost could be calculated accurately, but it is expected to be less than US$ 20 million equivalent.
Annex II - Page I



Annex I1
Nigeria - First Telecommunications Project
Final Supervision Mission
Key Indicators for Project Operations (Performance Indicators)
eFiscaleYearEnding        Em1991         Ata991      E      e1992 |1992        Em1993 l         1993 A1994 E               1994
December 31            Estimate        Actual     Estimate        Actual     Estimate        Actual     Estimate        Actual
1. Exchange Capacity
Added in Year                  89,000           na            0        47,333            0          -519       174,000       89,446
Total line Yr end            503,330       450,516      503,330       497,849      503,330       497,330       677,330      586,776
2. Connected Lines
Added in Year                 30,140                      38,060       26,768         8,000       21,343        44,000       26,428
Total line Yr end            328,150       294,166       366,210      320,934       394,510      342,287       438,510      368,715
4. Total Staff                     18,048        16,207       18,310        15,800       19,725        15,096       21,925        14,461
Staff/1,000 lines                  55            55           50            49           50            44           50            39
5. 'Rate of Return on ave. NFA       13%        27.01%          14%        66.13%          13%         25.1%          14%        31.13%
6. Operating Ratio                   32%           50%          33%           37%          35%           44%          34%           65%
7. Current Ratio                      1.5          0.62           1.8         1.18          2.2          1.38          2.9          1.09  s
8. Debt Service Coverage              2.6           na           3.0           9.8          3.5           2.3          4.1           0.9
Even though the First Telecommunications Project did not achieve the desired project objectives, except for a small proportion of the physical
installations, NITEL has achieved most of the performance indicators mentioned in Staff Appraisal Report. The additions to the installed
capacity have been financed by (i) a Siemens credit (ii) by Bankers Trust/Alcatel Loan and (iii) by internally generated funds. The decrease in
the staffing ratio is commendable. NITEL has not achieved some other performance indicators like call completion rate (20% compared to SAR
estimates of 70% for local and national calls in 1994), and Accounts Receivable as the number of days equivalent of revenues (230 days
compared to 60 mentioned in the SAR for 1994).
Revaluation of fixed assets woul(d significantly decrease the actual rate of return to below the covenant level of 10%.
Annlex II - Page 2



33
Annex III
Nigeria - First Telecommunications Project (Loan 3236-UNI)
Completion Mission - October 1995
Review of Financial Perfomance of NITEL
1.    The audited financial statements for 1994 which were due to be provided to the Bank by
June 30 have not yet been signed by the auditors The draft financial statements were provided to
the mission. The audit report on the Special Account for 1994 was provided to the mission and
found to be satisfactory.
2.    The draft financial statements indicate that overall financial performance remained
relatively unchanged for 1993. Profits increased from N 3.57 billion (US$ 162 million) to N3.6
billion (US$ 163.5 million) - both amounts converted to US$ equivalent at the official exchange
rate of N 22 = US$ 1. Net revenues increased from N9.89 biilion (US$ 449 million) in 1993 to
N10.9 billion (US$ 494 million) in 1994.
3     The official exchange rate remained constant at N22 = US$ 1 for both 1993 and 1994. In
early 1995, the exchange rate regime was partially liberalized through the introduction of a
parallel market, in which the exchange rate is currently US$ 1 = N82. However, NITEL appears
to have access to the official exchange rate for all significant financial transactions. This
provides it with a substantial (approx. 75%) discount to open market rates in terms of its foreign
currency loan balances and debt service payments. In addition, if fixed asset were revalued
using open market exchange rates, it appears that NITEL would not meet the requirement to earn
a 10% return on revalued assets (see attached calculations). As at December 31, 1994, plant,
machinery and equipment had a gross book value of N 9.7 billion whereas the market value at the
parallel rate should have been N 26.5 billion.
4.    In 1994, international outpayments almost doubled over the level in 1993. Although
detailed information is not yet available, it seems that the declining real cost of international calls
had a major impact on this increase. Since the international call charges remained constant at
around N 70 per minute for 1993-94, in real terms, it became cheaper tocall from Nigeria and
therefore outgoing traffic increased considerably In 1995, international tariffs have been
increased from N 70 per minute in 1993/4 to NIOO per minute for most international calls.
5.    Of five key financial performance indicators, NITEL is not in compliance with covenants
pertaining to accounts receivable and debt service coverage (calculations attached). A reviev of
the legal covenants is attached as Annex 1.
6     Accounts receivable have increased since 1993 to about 230 billing days (after deducting
provisions for bad debts). The annual bad debts charge has reduced from N 1.4 billion in 1993 to
N13 million in 1994. This charge is likely to be amended prior to the finalization of the audited
accounts. As pointed out in previous years, high accounts receivable have serious repercussions
on the financial position of the company. Aside from creating a cash flow problem, in real terms,
the outstanding balances are now worth significantly less than their original value.
Annex III - Page 1



34
Annex III
Nigeria - First Telecommunications Project (Loan 3236-UNI)
Completion Mission - October 1995
Review of Financial Perfomance of NITEL
7.    The fixed assets schedule indicates a capital work in progress of N 7.152 billion
equivalent to about 54% of total fixed asses. We understand that this will be reduced prior to the
finalization of the annual accounts.
Annex III - Page 2



35
Annex III
Nigeria
First Telecommunications Proiect
Calculation of Key Financial Indicators
1.     Accounts Receivable to be less than 60 days equivalent of billing
N million
Recorded traffic revenue                                                   10,873
Less: outgoing revenues                                                     1.714
9.159
Traffic debtors                                                            10,720
Less: provision for bad debts                                               3,845
due from other administrations                                       1.743
Net debtors                                                                 5.132
Nos. of billing days equivalent                                              205
Conclusion: Not in compliance
2.    A rate of return of 10% on average revalued net fixed assets to be maintained
N million
Net profit after tax (PAT)                                                  3,031
Add: finance charges                                                         630
Add: exchange losses                                                         152
Less: other investment income                                                335
Adjusted PAT                                                               3.478
Average net value of fixed assets                                          11.169
10% of above                                                               I-117
The above amounts are taken from the draft annual accounts for 1994. On the face of it, it
appears that NITEL is in compliance with the covenant. However, if assets are revalued as
follows, using a market exchange rate, it is clear that the covenant is not complied with.
Total Jines (no)                                                           588,000
Value per line (net) ($)                                                      750
Value of network ($ million)                                                  441
Market exchange rate assumed (N =$ 1)                                         60
Value of network (N million)                                               26,460
Annual depreciation charge (10%) (N million)                               2,646
N million
Adjusted PAT per above                                                      3,478
Less: increased depreciation charge                                        1_533
Adjusted PAT                                                                1.945
Annex 111. 1 - Page 1



36
Annex III
Nigeria
First Telecommunications Project
Value of network (revalued per above)                                           26.460
Rate of return on revalued assets                                                7.35%
Note Amounts taken from draft annual accounts.
Conclusion: Based on the draft accounts, NITEL appears to be in compliance. However, while
insufficient information is available to make a definitive calculation, an approximate revaluation of
fixed assets using an estimated market exchange rate (as opposed to the Government's official
exchange rate) indicates that the real rate of return is below the level required by the covenant.
3. Internally generated funds to cover local capital expenditure
N million
PAT                                                                             3,031
Add Back:    Depreciation                                                       1,113
Exchange losses                                                    152
Decrease in working capital                                      1,797
Less:         Repayment of Loans                                                  0
Internally generated funds                                                      6,093
Total capital expenditure                                                       4,980
Notes: (A) Breakdown of local and foreign capital expenditure was not available. (B) The draft
accounts do not reflect the repayrnent of principal made by NITEL.
Conclusion: Appears to be in compliance
4. NITEL shall not incur further debt if the debt service ratio is less than 1.5
N rnillion
PAT                                                                             3,031
Add Back       Depreciation                                                     1,113
Exchange losses                                                    152
Finance charges                                                    630
Adjusted PAT                                                                    4_926
Debt service charges:
finance charges                                                    630
outstanding interest on loans                                    4,620
estimated principal payrnent due                                   400
total                                                            _.65
Debt service ratio:                                                               0.9
Annex 111.1 - Page 2



37
Annex III
Nigeria
First Telecommunications Project
Conclusion: It is not clear whether NITEL has incurred any additional debt in 1994. Even though
the debt service coverage is less than the 1.5 it is uncertain whether NITEL is in non-compliance of
this covenant.
5. NITEL shall not incur any further debt if the debt ration is greater that 60:40
N million
Shareholders funds                                                  7,972
Long term debt                                                      7,866
Debt to Equity ratio                                                 0.99 (50:50)
Conclusion: Appears to be in compliance
Annex 111. 1 - Page 3



38
APPENDIX B
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (LOAN 3236-UNI)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Borrower and the Guarantor were advised in October 1995, during the final
supervision/completion mission, that their contribution to the ICR, giving their
perspective of the design, implementation and devlopment impact of the project had to be
prepared and sent to the Bank. No reports have been received as yet. The Borrower did
not provide comments on the draft ICR.



39
APPENDIX C
IBRD Map No. 21860






NvICGERIA                                                        {             ,i'
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT .\--
13tURKINA              |                                                           NiT 1 ( \i  F Rt
F ASO                                  )JrTSINA___.,  
9         t    . 57>ebbi   SOKO~~~50 TO          u sa           ;     \      - KAN       /.H ORNO 
/   9    )  i. t        \        0?    I      w       ffi<           _4          \                              ~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIDUGURI  
f   ))-X   l\                      t     4   g}   J           Ay           f areZ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptiskurn,      
BF.NIN                                                         KaZo                                                                             (                       0
Y~NwBussat               Z/nkNN                                        t05~/t     
(     Ogbo.oshl ,I ;               KWR                     -r Lafi                           5 fX
t OY0,o Lo 1 1 ~~~~~~~GONGOLA}- 
E.can g                    Ado-Elkit ,x
/2)ABE74  ^   <      wo )        _                   o~~           ~     ~     ~~~ ~~~~~~t.r  A/ad           (       hatioEris b,vseml lUiarked in red
vOGZJAr      bn   ~~~ONDt,uc i                         I                                                                         witll be trehabilitated'expanded
~  4  Gos < < t XN-9tl>Ogo;a 3            TY                                                                                                 Existing Microwave Links
tAGOS  SOUTH\a<PeleX  A/I  Ib @~~~~n sha   J C             O     5     /-=-i.                                      ... Existing Cable
L4G;OS                 ZO..hO\ RVI                                                                                                           Standard "A" Earth Stations
',-~~~ Wi;;\   /  . >tE    {4 %   {     Xditvntel y yC=;=               _       ~~~Zone Boundaries
/ _aoa~~ ) / y.f=s.dA                                                                                          State Capitals
,:,, {.r ].i 4/jaS . uYo) @7 69 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National Capital
SOL&-ht A;1 i A b        %s  >z         ~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 1O  40  t80  120  160             Rivers3
X                            *  &  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,i   >                 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MILLS  O'  210     4'0  60  80    1n _0  StateeBoundariess
_                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKWA-IBOM  -IInternational Boundaries









IMAGING
Report No.:         16623
Type:      ICR



