Documat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rbhtr No. 8035-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAY 16, 1990
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Africa Region, Western Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This     ub  a tstRicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc of
dtir ofical dtiks. Its otents may not otberwise be\dclosed without World Bank authorizado.



Curwmy sad Usiwala_t Units
N rreucy Unit -   ira (3);
Us$1 -    b
11 " 1$0.13
3- Kobo 100
l1imhts *od Ifbtae
metric System
List of Abbrwviatio s
DEL        -         Direct Exchange Line
PGN        -         Federal Governmnt of Nigeria
ICB       -          International Competitivp Bidding
N     LCB        -          Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    ,  -          Limited International Bidding
MOC        -         Ministry\of Coumimcations
NEPA       -        \ National glectricity and Power Authority
NET        -        \Nigerian External Teleco  nications
'NITEL     -         Nigerian Telec""^u-ications Limited
OECF       -         Overseas Ec9nomic Cooperation Fund  Japan)
PABX       -         Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PHBX       -         Private Manual Branch Exchange
PPF        -      'Project Preparation Facility
TCPC       -         Technical Cooittee for Privatization and
Csurcialisaticn 
UF         -         Ultra High Frequency
VFT        -        NVoice Frequency Telegraph
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFXCIAL USE ONLY
FIRST TZLICOSHCIICATIOES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pan No
LQOA AND PROJECT SUI(ARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iv
I.   WRODUCTION.                       .                   ... . . . . .1
II.  THETEECOMUNICATIONSSXCTOR.              .     ......... . .
1. Background
A. Sector Organization  ...... . . . .         . . . . . . . .1
B. Access to Service  .  .           *..........    *  *..... .  2
C. Usage of Service ... . . . .. *. ....   . . . . . .   . .  . 3
D. Existing Facilities  .....  .     .  .  .    .................    .  3
E. Quality of Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
F. Demand for Service . . . .                   . . . . . . . . 4
2. The Entity
A. Institutional Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
B. Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . 5
C. Co ercialization of     llTEL . . . . . . . .   .    .        6
D. Staff and Training . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . 7
E. Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
F. Billing and Collection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
G. Audits .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..  ..  ..  .  .  ..  8
3. Development
A. Sector Objectives. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
B. Sector Constraints . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
C. Sector Strategy  . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . 10
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
III. THE PROGRAH AND THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
1. The Program. . . . . . . . . . . . .*. . . . . . . . . . . . 11
This report is based on the findings of a mission in April 1989 composed of
Messrs. Rajesh Pradhan (Task Manager and Financial Analyst). Rogati Kayani
(Senior Telecommunications Engineer), and James Cowie (Senior
Telecommunications Specialist) and technical discussions held in Washington
in March 1990.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Pagte No.
2. The Proiset . . . . . . . . .                                   s 13
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
3. Project Description  ........... . ..13
C. Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 15
D. Project Financing  . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3. Procure ent and Implentation
A. Procurement                 . . . . . . . . .               17
S. Disbursement                   . . . . . .                  19
C. Implemntation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D. Overall Project Mauagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.
Z. Performance Indicators .                 * * *              21.
IV. FIWICIAL AND CONOMIC ANALYSIS  ................22
1. Financial Analysis
A. NITEL's Past Financial Performance . .   . . . . . . . . . 22
B. NITEL's'Present Financial Position .                         23
C. Financial Objectives . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24
D. Projected Financial Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
E. Projected Financing Plan   . . .2.. .        ....  .. .26
2. Economic Analysis
A. Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
B. Benefits  . . . . . . . . . .        . .  . . . . . . . . .  .27
C. Least Cost Solution . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .28
D. Return on Investment  . . . . . 2  . . .   . .  . .  .   . . .28
E.  Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .29
P. Environmental and Health Aspects  . . . .. . . . . . . . .29
V.  AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...... . . . .   . . .29
ANNEES AND CHARTS
2-1  Existing Teleco amnications Facilities. . . . . . . .  . . . . . 32
2-2  Exint i g Demand                 . . . . . .                  . . .33
2-3  NITCL Organization Chart  .. . . . .                      . . . . 34
2-4  CoamFrcialization of NITEL  . . . . . . . . .         \. . . . . . 35
3-1  Investent Program (1990-1994)  .. .... . . . . . . . . . . .39
3-2  Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
3-3  Tenip of Reference for Consultancy Services . . . . . . . . . . .. 45
3-4  ProjS ct  Financing Plan  . * . .*. . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . . .3
3-5  Schedule of Disbursemrnts ....................59



-iv -
lDZRhL. Ii    !C Ot NIGUU
PIRSS TRLZCOHNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SIDIRY
Borrower:           Nigerian Telecaounications Limited (NITEL)
Guarantor:          Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amounts             US$225 million equivalent
Trerst              Twenty years, lncluGng a five year grace period, at
the Bank's variable Luterest \ate.
Project             The main objectives of the project are to support and
Descriptions        strengthen the Institutional and policy framework and
to ficilitate the cmommrcialisation of NITEL; improve
the access to and quality of telecommunications
services: and improve NMTML's financial performance.
The proposed project consists of'
(a) an institutional development program including
technical assistance too develop a long-term
network development strategy and realistic
lnvestment program; undertake tecbnical audit of
Lagos networkt review NITEL's accounting and
financial systems and procedures as well as its
billing and collqction system implement an
Integrated management information system. review
tariff levels and sttucture, and revalue fixed
assets: Improve project management, financial
ma.nagement,,materials management, and network
planning: atid human resource development for
NITEL; and
(b) a physical development program inclUdings
rehabilitation of existing facilities; supply,
Installation and commissioning of new exchanges
and matching external line plant in the Lagos
metropolitan area and major c*ties;
rehabilitation of the Lanlate satellite earth
station; expansion of lpns distance transmission
links; establishment of'tt.M teleprinter and telex
module repair center; construction of buildings;
and provision of telepbone Instruments, vehicles
and ancillary equipment.
Prolect Benefits         Investments focussed on reobabilitation and
and Riskss               bmproved utilisation of existing assets as well
as expansion in high demand areas woul4 *4-aximia
the utilisation of NITIL' existing facilities  '
an4 hence'lmprove its financial and economic



- L -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGRIA
FIRST TELECOIIUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrowers           Nigerian Telecommunications Limited (NITEL)
Guarantors           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amounts              US$225 million equivalent
Terms:              Twenty years, including a five year grace period, at
the Bank's variable interest rate.
Proiect              The main objectives of the project are to support and
Description:         strengthen the institutional and policy framework and
to facilitate the commercialization of NITEL; improve
the access to and quality of telecommunications
services; and improve NITEL's financial performance.
The proposed project consists of:
(a) an institutional development program including
technical assistance to: develop a long-term
network development strategy and realistic
investment program; undertake technical audit of
Lagos network; review NITEL s accounting and
financial systems and procedures as well as its
billing and collection system; implement an
integrated management information system. review
tariff levels and structure, and revalue fixed
assets; improve project management, financial
management, materials management, and network
planning; and human resource development for
NITEL; and
(b) a physical development program including:
rehabilitation of existing facilities; supply,
installation and comissioning of new exchanges
and matching external line plant in the Lagos
metropolitan area and major cities;
rehabilitation of the Lanlate satellite earth
station; expansion of long distance transmission
links; establishment of the teleprinter and telex
module repair center; construction of buildings;
and provision of telephone instruments, vehicles
and ancillary equipment.
Proiect Benefits          Investments focussed on rehabilitation and
and Risks:                improved utilization of existing assets as well
as expansion in high demand areas would maximize
the utilization of NITEL's existing facilities
and hence improve its financial and economic



returns. Tbh project will alleviate a major
infrastructure constraint to the sustainability
of ecoonmic developmeat and adjustment in Nigeria
through upgrading the country's standard of
telecommunications, currently among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Furthermore, the
institutional building and strengthening of
ITIL's maangmnt system  would result in
improved financial perforamace and net transfer
of funds from the sector to MC. While progress
has been made in seeking comitment from both IGN
and NITIL on major areas and required actions for
substantially Improving the performance of the
sector, the principal risk relates to the pace at
which NITEL's implemntation capacity can be
strengthened. However, this risk is minimized by
Bank requirement of upfront actions by FGM and
NITEL wherever appropriate and NITEL's agreement
to an action plan for strengthening the sector
and entity management and other related issues.
In addition, annual review by FGN and the Bank of
NITML's achievements would provide a framework to
ensure satisfactory implementation of the
institutional aspects of the proposed project.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local  Foreign    Total
By Items                              ---US$ Million Equivalent---
Switching Equipment                         5S8    102.1    107.9
External Line Plant (ELP)                   19.4    149.2    168.6
Transmission                                 1.2      10.9     12.1
Space Communication                          0.1       3.0      3.1
Telephones and Teleprinters                  0.1       9.1      9.2
Buildings                                   25.8       0.0     25.8
Rehab. of Power and Airconditioning          0 .       1.2      1.3
Vehicles                                     3.0       2.0      5.0
Training (Equipment and Fellowships)         0.1       6.1      6.2
Consultancy                                  0.4       7.2      7.6
Miscellaneous and Ancillary Equipment        0.0       1.0      1.0
Customs Duties                              37.8       0.0     37.8
Base Cost                                   93.9    291.7    385.6
Physical Contingency                         9.4      14.6     24.0
Price Contingency                            9.3      28.7     38.0
Project Cost                               112.6    335.0    447.6
Interest During Construction
On Bank Loan                               0.0     20.5      20.5
On Other Loans                             0.0      15.4     15.4
Total Financing Required                   112.6    370.9    483.5



- vi -
Project PlnUocsAE Plan.
sources                             Local         Forelin          Total
------- U8$ Mllion gquivalent------
IUD                                   -             225.0         225.0
Cofinanciers                          -             110.0          110.0
NITSL                               112_6 3S_9                    14U._
Total Project Financing             112.6           370.9         483.5
.Istited Disbureementes
IBitD  Y               FY91 11   FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
-----------S$ Million Equivalent-----------
Annual                   20.0       58.0      88.0      41.5       17.5
Cumulative               20.0       78.0     166.0     207.5     225.0
I/  Includes refinancing of PPF
Economic Rate of Return: 23.72
Hans                     IBRD No. 21860



L
FEDERAL URPUILIC OF NIGRUIA
FIRST TELWCOFUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. I?ROD?CTION
1.01      The Federal Govrniment of Nigeria (FGN) recogpixes
teleco unications as an infractructure vital to the mustainability of
economic development and adjustment in Nigeria. FCI has requested Bank
assistance in financing the development of its telecoinnications sector.
PON's principal objectives are focussed on developing a sound
telecomunications policy and institutional framevork; commercializing
Nigerian Telecomsunications Limited (NITZL) end improving the quality of
and access to teleco;aunications services. This will be the Bank's first
lending operation in the telecon unications sector in Nigeria.
1.02      The estimated cost of the project is US$483.5 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$370.9 million, about 77Z of total cost.
The project comprises the new works of NITEL's telecomAunications
development program for the 1990-94 period. The foreign exchange cost of
the project is expected to be financed from a loan of US$225 million
equivalent from the Bank and credits totaling US$110 million from co-
financiers. The interest during construction (US$35.9 million) and local
cost of the project (US$112.6 million) are expected to be financed from
NITL' s internal cash generation.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1. BACKGROUND
A. Sector Organization
2.01      The responsibility of the telecommunications sector in Nigeria
rests with the Ministry of Communications (HOC).  Under MOC, NITEL is
responsible for management and development of domestic and internationtl
public telecomnnuications services.  In addition to the public
telecommunications services, dedicated networks exist to meet the
specialized requirements of the police, military, railway, civil aviation
and the oil companies. Other private users also operate radio services
especially in areas without public networks but even in areas served by
NITEL, private users operate radio link services to supplement NTTEL's
unreliable network.
2.02      MOC is responsible for setting policies and carrying out the
regulatory functions such as licensing of private operators while NITEL
carries out the more technical regulatory functions such as setting
equipment standards and granting of equipment type approvals o*a behalf of
MOC. Management of the radio frequency spectrum is carried out by the
Nigerian Frequency Registration Board which is chaired by the NOC and



2-
consists of members from the mlitary, police, civil aviation, MOC, Federal
Ministry of Informtion, NITEL and the national security. HOC has prepared
a national telecouuications policy paper to articulate the operating and
regulatory frawork and determine conditions and areas under which service
will be provid6d for telocomunications. The Bank has had extensive policy
dialogue both with the HOC and NITZL during the project preparation and has
prowided HOC with its assessment of the i.port#nt considerations in the
formilation of a national telecomunications policy paper. During
negotiations, the Minister of Communications reassured the Bank that the
policy paper is in line with the trends in the sector in most other
countries and is consistent vith the Bank's dialogue on the policy
fraework. In addition, he stated that the FOR has already taken
substantive actions along the lines proposed by the Bank in its dialogue.
Some of the major steps that have been taken are: (i) a decision to fully
co me rcialize NITEL; (ii) an implementation of a rational digitalization
policy; (iii) limiting investment to reasonable levels; (iv) a decision to
open up previously contracted equipment to international competitive
bidding; and (v) substantial increases in tariffs. In addition, MOC will
employ consultants to strengthen its capacity to regulate the sector and
monitor sector performance.
B. Access to Service
2.03      Access to telephone service is currently limited t? 20Z of the
country's area. Coverage, both in terms of percentage of area and
population served, varies regionally.  Considerable differences exist in
availability of telephone facilities between the Northern and Southern
parts of the country which more or less reflect regional disparities of
population densities and econemic development.
2.04      At the end of 1988, Nigeria had a total of about 260,000 direct
exchange liaes (DELs). This translates to an overall telephone density of
0.2 lines per 100 inhabitants, which is only about 50? of average
penetration in Sub-Saharan Africa. The available telephone facilities are
inadequate for the level oL economic development as reflected by the long
list of waiting applicants (para 2.11). The existing facilities are not
only inade4uate but there is an imbalance between urban and rural areas.
Telephone service is concentrated in the 21 state rjpitals, which accounts
for 732 of the total lines but only 82 of the population.  The 21 state
capitals shor an average density of 2.5 lines per  00 inhabitants compared
to the national average of 0.2 lines per 100 inhabitants. ,The rural
density is only about 0.07 lines per 100 inhabitants.   However, to improve
the current very poor quality of service, the project concentrates on
rehabilitation of the netwofk in main urban centers, with expansion
restricted to that feasible within the constraints of NITEL's limited
manpower and finah*cial resources.
2.05      At the end of 1988, automatic telex service was available to
about 5,900 subscribers of whom 60X were located in Lagos.
. .,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~7



C. taaa of Service
2.06       atiowide, the distributLan of telepho  lines between business
and residential urs rs almost evlth a slight   phasia an remidential
telephons. 551. Regionally, residential subscribers prevail In the
southern sam..end bu siess subscribers In the nortern ames.  In _maller
e_cheg  areas, the majorlty of subscribers are busiess.  in Laos the
statistics show an equal dLstrLbution of residentLal and business
subscrlbers. NowereT. within the city, certain areas (uch as Lagos
Islnd, Ikeyi and Apapa) are busiuet5 oriented 4ad others predaaomntly
residential.  In  igeria. like In my developing countries where telephone
servico Is underprovided, many of the residentLal telephones are used for
both business and private purposes.
D. Ezisting Facilities
2.07    - The telecomunications services provided by NITIL includes
telephone; telex; telegram, private wires and leased circuits; data
transmission; bureaufax (facsimile); T.V. transmission; and mobile maritime
service. Details of the existing facilities are given in An_nex 2-1.
2.08      Among the services, the telephone service is the most important
with the greatest impact on social and economic activities. At the end of
1988, total telephone switching capacity (exchanges) installed was about
394,300 lines. About 97Z of the lines were served from automatic exchanges
and the remaining lines were provided by manual exchanges. Due to the lack
of an appropriate policy in the past, there are nine different types of
analog automatic exchanges in use which create inter-working, maittenance
and spare part problems. Future expansion will be based on a
digitalization policy which aims at a maximum of three different system.
Total telex capacity was 12,800. The average capacity utilization for
telephone and;telex exch"gea was low at 662 and 422, respectively.  This
was mainly due to the fact that many telephone exchanges have been recently
comuieioned and, uit)ll recentlys there has been a shortage of teleprinters
,,to condect new telex subscribers. The main long distance transmission
media is microwave radio with a few UHF spurs. There is one coaxial cable
in the trunk network running from Lagos via Ibadan and Ilorin to Kaduna.
Same local exchanges are conwected via coaxial tail-links to the nearest
mLcrowave stations. There icsa domestic satellite syste* (DOSSAT) with 21
eprth stations used primarily for TV transmission. For international
telecounsmications, there are two earth stations and two international
eschaziges located at Lagos and Kaduna. Nigeria in directly connected to 20
countries by satellite system. Nigeria is also linked to West Africa and
Kurope by a subuarine cable which handles about lOZ of total international
traffic.
I    Qulitr of Service
2.09      The quality of service is poor due to congestion in the local
switch4ing Juipment  eading t   -long dial tone delay and low call Vcplation
rates. On thee.average, the call completion rates for local, long distance
(STh) and incoming international calls are low at about 302, 302 and ZZ0,
respectively. Ope major finding of tbs conaultants employed under a *e;*
o  "   ()                  V            \  .                                t~~(



-4-
PtP advance to investlgate the problems of the Lagos network and recomend
appropriate steps to improve its performance was that, contrary to NITSL's
bellef, the *nount of *qulpment avallable is sufflcient to carry all the
traffic generated by the existing subscribers. The low call completion
rate of 30S (instead of the expected 60S) for local calls is due to a large
proportion of faulty comon control equipment. This results in excesslve
repeat attempts whlch generate false trafflc thus overloading the available
comon control equipment.  On average, in Lagos, for every successful call,
the caller has to attempt five times. The isolation of faulty equipment at
some of the exchanges has led to improvement in the call completion rates
by 30S. NITCL was unable to analyze the problem and take these measures
prior to the consultants' assLstance because of:
a)  inadequate operations and maitenance organization;
b) lack of trained staff to diagnose the problems; and
c)  lack of maintenance tools and test equipment.
The project will address the above problems and provide the necessary spare
parts and modules to repair the faulty equipments (paras 3.08 and 3.10).
2.10      Other main causes of poor quality of service are breakdown of
power equipment and airconditioning plant. Due to the unreliable power
supply from NEPA, NITEL's standby power equipment is often used beyond its
design capacity leading to frequent breakdowns. NITEL has not been able to
repair most of the broken down standby power equipment due to lack of
foreign exchange to procure the necessary spare parts. Some 752 of the
faults on the long distance transmission network are caused by problems in
the power supply systems. This problem is being addressed in this project
through the provision of rehabilitation equipment and spare parts.  Unlike
many other developing countries, the fault rate on the external local cable
network is relatively low because most of the network is fairly new, having
been constructed after 1976.
P.  Demand for Service
2.11      Consultants, financed under the Bank's PPF advance, have carried
out a detailed survey of national telephone demand.  They assessed that the
total demand nationwide for March 31, 1988 was about 1.0 million potential
subscribers, which is over 300Z of the supply of about 246,000 DELs at that
period.  However, expressed demand (DELs plus registered waiting
applicants) was only 400,000 indicating a large euppressed demand
(600,000). Suumary of subscriber potential is shown in Annex 2-2. The
large suppressed demand indicates that many would be applicants have been
discouraged from applying for telephone service probably because of:
(a) the long average waiting time for connection (exceeding ten years) due
to lack of facilities; and (b) the quality of service has been poor
(para 2.09). This is comon in many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
During the five year period covered by this project, the total demand is
conservatively expected to grow at about 32 per annum reaching about
1.2 allion at the end of 1994. However, because of the very poor quality
of existing network and the urgent need for its rehabilitation, the project



-5-
provides for only high priority development works. Thus, during the same
period, the supply will increase at about 9S per annM to about 438,500 by
1994 due to the project and ongoing works in the progiam and the demand
will still be about 200Z above supply.
2.12      As regards to telex service, the present potential demand is
estimated at about 8,000 with registered vaiters of about 2,000. There is
adequate telex switching capacity available but the shortage of
teleprinters and cable pairs have hindered the utilization of this
capacity. The project will overcome these deficiencies. The demand for
telex service is estimated to reach about 12,000 in 1992 and 14,700 in
2002, an average growth of about 52. However, the actual demand for telex
is likely to be less than forecast because of higher expected penetration
of data and facsimile in the Nigerian network.
2. THE ENTITY
A. Institutional Background
2.13      Until 1984, responsibility for the operation of domestic
telecommuninations services was vested in the Posts and Telecomnunications
Department (P&T) of the government, and responsibility for international
services rested with a wholly government owned company, Nigeria External
Telecommunications Limited (NET). In 1984, PGN decided in favor of
creating a single entity to 'enhance service provision" through improved
planning and coordination and reduced staffing and overlap between the two
entities. The merged entity was required to operate telecommunications
services in Nigeria on a commercial basis.
2.14      NITEL was established on January 1, 1985 under the Companies Act
of 1968 through a merger of the 'Department of the Telecommunications
Section of the Posts and Telecommmnicationsw of the Ministry of
Communications and the 'Nigerian External Telecommunications Limited' as a
wholly government owned limited company with responsibility of providing
domestic and international public telecommunications services. According
to its Memorandum and Articles of Association, it has a share capital of
N4 million which cannot be increased without government approval. NITEL is
required to be managed by an eight-member Board, of whom five including the
chairman must be nominated by government. Currently, the functions of the
Board are being carried out by three members, namely the Minister of
Communications as Chairman, the Director General of the Ministry of
Communications and the lanaging Director of NITEL. The autonomy of NITEL
including the independence of the Board of Directors is being actively
pursued by the Technical Coumittee for Privatization and Commercialization
(TCPC) for NITEL as for all other public enterprises that have been
nominated to operate on a fully conmmercial basis.
B. Organization and Management
2.15      There was inadequate advance planning of the merger of P&T and
NET, with the result that a stable and rational organization and management
structure and adequate trained staffing were not in place until about
August 1986. The organization structure, together with job descriptions,



was prepared by a telecomunications consulting firm in 1986. Under this
structure, the post of Deputy Managing Director for Operations and
Maintenance has been introduced. Operations are decentralized to the
managers of five regional zones, one of which is Lagos. A further level of
subdivision is the territory, which corresponds to Nigeria's state
boundaries. To streamline its functions and improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of its various functional units, NITEL restructured its
organization effective January 1, 1989. This, however, did not include the
financial functions because the consultant financed under the PPF advance
had not finalized its recoendation. The financial functions were
restructured effective April 1, 1989 based on the consultant's
recomendation. The new organizational structure is shown in Annex 2-3.
2.16      While NITEL's structure is appropriate for commercial operation,
it at present lacks proper management systems and procedures essential to
manage it as a commercial enterprise. In addition, NITELI's management
reporting is fragmented and there is no formal gnd uniform structure for
flow of information. This has contributed to weaknesses in planning,
operations and maintenance, financial management, billing and collection,
procurement and project management. Consultants will be employed to assist
NITEL in its efforts in these areas (paras 3.08 and 3.09).
C. Cumuercialization of NITEL
2.17      In July 1988, in furtherance of its efforts to  mprove NITEL's
performance, FON announced its decision to fully commercialize NITEL as
part of the broad reforms of the public enterprise sector involving
privatization and commercialization of some 135 parastatals. A sub-
committee of the Technical Comimttee for Privatization and
Comercialization (TCPC) has examined NITEL's situation in detail and made
its recommendations on commercialization of NITEL to TCPC for its review
and implementation. 1GN has clearly recognized the need for NITEL to
become a financially sound commercial entity and the proposed project will
provide the support for FGN's efforts. The Bank submitted its input to the
sub-committee of the TCPC dealing with NITEL on appropriate steps to enable
autonomy for NITEL and the continuing policy oversight by the MOC to be
effective. The Minister of Commuications, who is the Chairman of the
committee responsible for implementing TCPC's recommendations, assured the
Bank that the recommendations of the TCPC sub-committee are in line with
the Bank's dialogue with FGN.
2.18      During negotiations, an understanding was reached with FGN and
NITEL on the main elements of the commercialization of NITEL to ensure that
NITEL will become self-reliant, have more autonomy in personnel policies,
salaries, procurement, and management of its financial affairs, etc., and
in return, making it accouitable for its performance (Annex 2-4).  FGN's
operational and financial objectives for NITEL will be incorporated in a
formal performance contract between FGN and NITEL against which NITEL's
achievements will be monitored.  It was agreed that a draft performance
contract between the PGN and NITEL will be submitted to the Bank for
comments by October 31, 1990 and will be made effective by January 1, 1991.
There will be an exchange of views with the Bank on NITEL's progress in
meeting agreed specific targets under the performance contract. Key



-7\
performance objectives and targets for inclusion in such a contract were
also agreed (para 3.25 and Annexes 2-4 and 3-9).
D. Staff and Training
2.19      As of December 31, 1988, NITEL employed about 17,000 staff, of
wham about 12,000 were technical. This represented a considerable
reduction since September 1984 (prior to reorganization), when there were
severe overstaffing problems in the sector. At that time, the total
telecomnunications staff was estimated at 27,000, equivalent to a staffing
ratio of 180 per 1000 DELs. The staffing ratio decreased to 66 per 1000
DELs by the end of 1988. The staffing ratio in Nigeria compares well with
other African countries but is still higher than in most developing
countries. The staff ratio will be closely monitored during the project to
reduce it to a target of about 60 per 1000 DELs by the end of 1990, 55 by
1991, 50 by 1992. This will be included as part of the performance
contract between FGN and NITEL.
2.20      All three consultants financed under the PPF advance identified
the inadequacy of trained and experiencLed manpower in NITEL, in all
disciplines and at all levels, as a major issue. The introduction of
digital technology and commercialization of NITEL will change the
composition of the staff profile of NITEL requiring better educated and
trained staff to effectively manage the sector. NITEL with the assistance
of consultants has identified skill gaps and the training needs, and
recruitment requirements. NITEL has started an intensive recruitment
effort to employ the necessary staff with special efforts to attract
qualified accountants, who are in short supply.
2.21      Training is provided through the main school at Oshodi, at Kano
and at a series of six regional schools. Whilst generally well equipped,
there are shortcomings for technical training in the latest technologies,
e.g., optical fiber, digital, and training in finance and information
management. NITEL h4s embarked on an intensive training of Its staff at
all levels and disciplines, including finance, personnel, maiagement,
cxmputer, and technical.  During 1989, about 900 staff received training In
non-technical areas and about 1,800 staff received training in technical
areas. The training was held in Nigeria as well as overseas with foreign
administration and equipment suppliers. This effort will continue during
the project period. The project will provide a total of 130 man yoars of
fellowships for all disciplines, which is considered adequate for the next
five years, to complement NITEL's efforts to train its staff overseas
(para 3.08). In addition, the project will provide 24 manmonths of experts
for setting up courses in data and digital technology at the training
school.
E. Accoun A
2.22      The;process of merging the two different accounting Systems of
P&T (cash based) and NET (commercial based) after the creation of NITEL is
not fully completed.  Whilst external consultants have been eutloyed\to
help, this process has been rendered difficult by the loss of most
experienced financial staff during the reorganization and the lack of



adequate training of PtT finacuial staff on accrual accounting concepts.
As a result, there is a shortage of reliable informtion for evaluation of
KITIL's fin ncial position and performnce. A consulting accountancy firm
was retained by government to prepare an opening statement of a*ffairs as of
December 31, 1984 for NITEL. This difficult task was only realized in
November 1986, vith substantial qualifications about the validity of the
stateent.
2.23      Consultants financed under the PPF advance to review NITZL's
accounting and financial systems , procedures and policies have idMrtified
numerous deficiencies. Their main findings are as follows: (a) no official
consolidated statement of NITEL's accounting policy exists; (b) the
existing accounting system is largely cash based; (c) lack of appropriate
financial management systems and procedures; and (d) lack of adequately
trained financial staff at all levels on accrual accounting systems. The
consultants recom.ended reorganization of financial functions in the
headquarters, zones and territories to avoid duplication of tasks and
better management and control of NITEL's finances. NITEL has implemented
some of the recoumendations of the consultants. Under the project,
financial contultants will be employed to assist NITEL in its
implementation efforts (para 3.08).
F. Billing and Collection
2.24      On its creation, NITEL inherited major problems of billing and
collection. The billing system is based on two mainframe computers in
Lagos and Kaduna, and manual systems are to be replaced shortly by
minicomputers in the other zonal headquarters of lbadan, Enugu and Bauchi.
The ezisting equipment, however, functions poorly due to spore parts and
service problems. Up to 201 of subscribers do not receive bills at all.
Current collection rates are difficult to estimate because, at present,
collection data do not separate outpayment for current billing and arrears.
Further, there is no aging analysis. The outstanding subscriber accounts
receivable as of December 31, 1988 was about five months of billing for the
year, which is high compared to an accqptable norm of two months.
Consultants were employed under PPF financing to review the existing
billing and collection systems and procedures at NITEL and recommend
improvements. NITEL has already started implementing some of the
recoummendations of the PPF consultants on billing and cbllection and this
has resulted in improvements both in the billing and collection
performance. Experts will be provided under the project to assist NITEL in
its efforts to further improve the billing and collection performance
(par* 3.08). During negotiations, it was agreed that NITEL will reduce its
outstanding subscriber receivables to 120 days of billing for the year by
1990,' 90 days by 1992, 60 days by 1994, and maintain it thereafter. Those
targets will be monitored during the implementation of the project
(para 3.25).
G. Audits
2.25      External auditors are appointed by NITEL in accordance with its
Articles of Association. Currently, two reputed private auditors carrT out
joint auIits of NITEL's accounts. This arrangement is satisfactory and



-9-
will be continued under the proposed loan. The long delays in completing
audits are due to delays in completion of the accounts and their poor
quality (para 2.22).   m5 audited statements for RITZL vas ready only in
NovmWber 1988 and it had nu erous qualifications. The auditors were unable
to fomn an opinion as to wbether the financial statem nts give a true and
fair view of the state of the company's affairs. MIT!! is presently unable
to meet either the special governient requirement for audits or the
requirement of its Articles of Association to present such audited accounts
within nine months after the end of the fiscal year. This is mainly a
result of the problem of maintaining regular and proper accounts.
Recently, NITIL's management has placed high priority on the completion of
the outstanding audits and mobilized the necessary staff to assist the
auditors. This has resulted in the completion of the draft audits for 1988
which are being discussed between NITEL and the auditors. The situation is
expected to improve further after the recommendations of the PPF
consultants are fully implemented after which NITEL should be able to meet
its audit requirements. During negotiations, the timetable for submission
to the Bank of draft and audited financial accounts were agreed as follows:
(a) audited PY87 accounts will be conditions for loan effectiveness;
(b) audited PY88 accounts will be within eighteen months of the close of
the fiscal year; and (c) draft and audited FY89 accounts will be within
nine and twelve months of the close of the fiscal year, respectively, and
for each year, thereafter, the unaudited and audited accounts within four
and six months of the close of the fiscal year, respectively.
3. DEVELOPMENT
A. Sector Obiectives
2.26      The present situation of undersupply and poor quality of
telecommunications service is a severe constraint to economic grpwth,
particularly in the export and trade sectors. FGN has recognized the need
to: (a) develop telecommunications as an economic infrastructure vital to
the sustainability of development and adjustment in Nigeria and as a
vehicle for autional as well as regional integration; and (b) strengthen
and commercia'lize the sector organization an4 management to improve the
sector performance for sustained growth in telecommunications services.
With these objectives in view, and as mentioned earlier, the FGN on January
1, 1985 established NITEL to operate telecommunications services on a
commercial basis (para 2.14). In July 1988, NITEL was included as one of
the public enterprises to be fully commercialized as part of the FGN's
broad reforms of public enterprise involving privatization and
commercialization of key public enterprises.
B.  Sector Constraints
2.27      The main constraints to sector development are:
(a)  lck of compkehensive PGN policy on telecommunications
d=elopment (para 2.02);
(b) lack of autconmy for NITEL (para 2.14);



- 10 -
(c)  lack of proper maagment systems end procedures (pars 2.16) and
of adequate trained manpower (pars 2.20), which constrails
IITIL's capacity to maintain the existing facilities and to plan
and Implement develop nt projects; and
(d) lack of adequate funds, both local and foreign, which lidit
procurement of essential equipment and mterials for
mintenance, rehabilitation and expansion.
Constraints (a) to (c) are being addressed through the SCPC work and tho
institutional component of the proposed project. Regarding (d) the project
provides the foreign exchange required for maintenance, rehabilitation and
limited expansion and includes m.asures for increasing the availability of
local funds through improved operational and financial performance of
NITEL.
C.  Sector Strategy
2.28      In its continued effort to achieve its objectives, the FGN's
medium tern strategy for the sector are as follows*
(a) separation of BITEL's role as the operating entity from that of
MDC as the unit responsible for regulation and control of the
sector (para 2.17);
(b)  full co  ercialization of NITEL through, inter alias
Mi)  reinforcement of NITEL's autonomy
(para 2.18);
(ii)   adequate measures of tariff increases and improved
operational efficiency of NITEL to ensure financial
viability (par  4.06); and
(iii)   strengthening of NITCL's operating framework by agreeing on
explicit operational, technical and financial performance
targets (pars 2.18), and establishing appropriate control
mechanLsms such as regular external audit (pars 2.25).
(c)  improvement In the quality of service to existing subscribers
through rehabilitation and better utilization of eristing
facilities (para 3.10); and
(d) provision of new facilLties to improve access to
telecommunications services (para 3.10).
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.29      The Bank's proposed support for telecoununications in Nigeria is
an important component of the public enterprise refoss process, a key
objective of the FP's structural adjustment program. This program calls
for easures to reduce unproductive capital investment, improve efflcLency
in operations and adopt economic pricing policAes. It specifically



-~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  11    -
addresses the pooz past performance of the public enterprise sector which
has absorbed substsntial amounts of govortnuet subventions, budgetary
support and concessionary loans. FCN's concern is focussed primarily an a
group of large parastatals, including NITSL.
2.30      The Bank supports VON's objective of improving the performance
of the tolecomunications sector. Through this first telecoiunications
lending operation in Nigeria, the Bank would play an important role in
assisting FGN and NITIL tot (a) implement a rational national
toleco muications sector policy and institutional and development
strategies for the efficient long-term developmat of the
teleccommications sector; (b) implement a realistic investment program
that would maximize benefits consistent with NITEL's implementation
capacity and resource availability; and (c) accelerate the implementation
of comercializatibn of NITEL. The Bank's cross country experience in the
teleccomunications sector in Sub-Saharan Africa would be directly and
im_ediately relevant in assisting FGN and NITEL in their efforts. In
addition, the Bank has considerable experience in the region in the
'commorcializations of such public sector entities and in particular in the
introduction of practical steps towards improved performnce monitoring and
target setting. Such steps would be heavily emphasized during project
processing and project supervision. Furtherore, the multi-disciplinary
approach of the Bank will be of particular value in Nigeria because of the
need to develop solutions for interrelated engineering and financial
problems as well as ensuring that the progra meets the priority economic
constraints.
2.31      The Bank has already assisted in the process of rationalizing
NITEL's investment program through the emloyment of consultants under the
PPF advance for developing medium and long-term sector development
strategies and proposing a realistic investment program consistent with
NITEL's implementation capacity and resource availability that would
improve service and expand coverage in high priority areas. The Bank's
participation in the project would also help in ensuring efficient
procurement of equipment and mobilization of cofinancing. In the current
economic climate, the teleco o nications sector is one of the few in which
incremental cofinancing opportunities exist. However, there is a need both
to avoid the dissipation of expensive money as happened in the past and to
ensure that, in the medium-term, new investment concentrates on
rehabilitation and maintenance.
III   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
1*  THE PROGRAM
3.01      In 1985, NITEL prepared its fifth five year investment program
(1986-1990). The program consisted of ongoing works carried over from its
third (1975-1980) and fourth (1981-1985) five year prog)ams, and a large
expansion component aimed at meeting IGN's stated goal bf one million DELs



- 12 -
by 1990, equivalent to average access to telephone service in the sub-
region. The total cost of the progiam was N3.3 billion (equivalent to
US$3.0 billion at the then exchange rate of N1.0 - US$1.0). This was an
interim objective to an even more ambitious goal of access for all to
telephone services by year 2000. Subsequently, PCG realized that these
goals were clearly over ambitious and unrealistic relative to NITEL's
implementation capacity and fin ncial resource availability.
3.02      In December 1986, MITZL requested Bank assistance to review the
viability of the program. The Bank's prelilinary review found the program
overly ambitious   In addition, the progrm was highly focussed towards
expansion without due consideration to the most urgent needs of NITEL which
are rehabilitation and institutional development.  On the Bank"s
recomendation, MITEL employed consultants under a PPF advance to review
the investment program and propose a realistic program which will, inter
alia, address the most urgent medium-term requirements in compliance with
the long-term network strategy. In parallel, consultants were also
employed to investigate the specific problems of the Lagos network and
propose a rehabilitation program aimed at removing the present bottlenecks.
3.03      NITEL's original program for 1986-1990 (rolled to 1987-1991),
estimated to cost about US$1.8 billion, was analyzed by the consultants.
Part of the program was already under implementation financed under the
'Siemens' Loan' of US$250 million equivalent from the Federal Republic of
Germany. The consultants reviewed the component financed by Siemens to
determine if it complies with the long-term network development strategy.
The consultants proposed some equipment rearrangements that would not
impede the speed of implementation. However, the consultants focussed
mainly on a review of the rest of the program consisting of new works
estimated by NITEL to cost about US$1.6 billion.  These were scaled down by
the consultants to US$980 million to include requirements to meet the
rehabilitation needs and most urgent demand.
3.04      The Bank reviewed the program proposed by the consultants and
refined it to be within the framework of FGN's and NITEL's goals and
constraints (paras 2.27 and 2.28). The revised program which incorporates
the Bank project is not sufficient to meet the rising demand for
telecommunications services (para 2.11), but reflects the implementation
and resource constraints. The Bank emphasized the need to prioritize
investments and to concentrate on rehabilitation, maintenance and
institutional development with marginal expansion before embarking on a
large expansion of the network in the next phase. Since even the proposed
investment program is large in light of the current constraints, any major
addition to the program could impose a serious itrain on NITEL's financial
and institutional resources. Accordingly, during negotiations, an
agreement was reached with NITEL that it will review with the Bank not
later than October 31 each year the composition of its capital expenditure
program for the five years immediately following such review together with
details of the financing plan prepared for such program until the
completion of the project.
3 05      The revised program, which is for the period 1990-94, consists\
of: (a) the ongoing works including Siemens' contract, mobile\ exchanges .d,



13
Standard A larth Station in Victoria Island; and (b) new components, which
will constitute the proposed project.  The cost of the revised program,
including interest during construction, is estimted at about
US$670 million including foreign cost of about US$523 million (Annex 3-1).
2.  THE POJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.06      To support the PGN's development strategy in the sector, the
project has the following physical and institutional development
objectives:
(a) to support strengthening of the institutional framework and
facilitate full commercialization of NITEL;
(b) to improve the quality of service and system efficiency
through, inter alia better utilization of existing
facilities, reducing faults and increasing call completion
rates;
(c) to improve NITEL's financial performance so as to reduce,
and finally eliminate existing government subsidies and
enable HITEL to be a net contributor to government
treasury; and
(d) to expand available facilities so as to satisfy the
most urgent demand.
B. Proiect Description
3.07      The project is described in detail in Annex 3-2. It includes
the following components:
Part I - Institutional Development
3.08      The institutional development component of the project provides
for consultants and experts to assist NITEL in the tasks specified below
and 1,600 manmnths of fellowships for overseas training of NITEL's
personnel. The technical assistance under the project are as follows:
(a) drawing up long-term network development strategy and
medium-term investment program, undertaking technical
audit of the Lagos network and revieving NITEL's
accounting, financial and billing and collection
policies, procedures and systems;
(b) establishing a project management team in the
implementation of the project;
(c) designing and implementing financial management systems and
procedures, including implementation of accrual accounting
system, and improvement of budgeting, forecasting, cost control,



14
etc. to ensure that the financial objectives of the project are
achieved;                                                 ,_001
(d) providing experts in traffic engineering. switching, and
transmission for network planning;
te) setting up of comprehensive and integrated materials and storage
management control systes and procedure ;
(f)  reviewing teleconications tariff levels and structure;
tg)  establishing a management information system for monitoring
technical and financial performnace at different levels of
management;
(h) re-valuing fixed assets;
ti) computerizing subscriber records and stock records and
valuation; and
(j)  providing training fellowships to NITEL staff.
3.09      For the tasks under (%), 50 musmonths of consultants were
employed under PPF advance approved on July 3, 1987.  Consultancy seFvices
and t.r&ining requirements under (b) to (3) are based on the findings of
those consultants. The detailed terms of reference for those consultancy
serviees were discussed and agreed with NITEL and terms of reference for
consultancy servIces to be financed by the Bank are given in Annex 3-3.  It
has also bveen agreed with NITEL that% (a) it will identify and nominate
counterpart personnel for each task and inform the Bank prior to issuance
of the letter of invitation to consultants for proposals; and (b) NITEL and
the Bank will each year review the impact of the technical assistance
Including counterpart staff training and agree on the implementation
objectives for the following year. Letters of invitation for project and
financial management consultants have been issued. Appointment of those
consultants and issuance of letters of invitations for remaining
consultancy services are conditions of loan effectiveness.
Part II - Rehabilitation and Expansion
3.10      This component comprises the new works in the revised investment
program for 1990-94, includings
(a) rehabilitation of existing switching, transmission, power
and airconditioning equipment including the provision of
spare parts, modules, tools and test equipment to repair
and refurbish them;
(b)  supply, installation and comuissioning of:
Mi)     265,000 lines of switching qquipment incl4'ding 143,000
lines in the Lagos metropolitan area and 122,000 lines
in other major cities;



(ii)     complementary external line plant to match item  (1)
aboawt and
(iii)     digital sicrowave radio systems in high priority
areas.
(c) design, procureomnt of facilities, and establishent of a
teleprinter and telex module repair centers
(d)  rehabilitation and upgrading of Lanlate satellite earth
statioun
(a) prowision of 100,000 telephone instrumnts and 8,000 pay
phomes for replacement of unserviceable instrument and
connecting new subscribers;
(f) provision of 300 motor vehicles for plannaing, construction
and maintenance works;
(8) construction of buildings to accommodate equipment and for
residential purposest and
(h) ancillary equipment, including software for management
informtion system.
C. Prolect Costs
3.11      The total cost of the project is estimated at 34.7 billion
(US$483.5 million equivalent) with a foreign exchnge cost of about
13.6 billion (US$370.9 million equivalent), i.e. about 771 of total cost.
The costs of equipment and consultants are based on NITCL'c contracts for
ongoing works and experience in other countries vith adjustmnts up to July
1989. The project costs include 1370.2 million (US$35.9 million) of
Ointerest during constructions (IDC). Project cost estimates are detailed
in Annex 3-1 and are nu marited in Table 3.1.
k               



- 16 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Sugmarv
Loc l   F*r.l Toe!    Leoe l  Forein  Tot l     Foreign
By itneb ,re, 91 Ile)VIIIlea)                                        OfTote I
swItchlng quipw._t       4.6  301.4  #67.0         5.3   102.1   107.9   96
xteree  Line Pleat (ELF)  15U.5 1,104.8 1,8 0.5    19.4   14e.2   180.0    so
Tranelei e                9.7   90.7   96.4        1.2   10.9    12.1    s0
$P_. Commueniatie         0.5   24.0    24.5       0.1     *.0    8.1      U
Tolt n -   mmd T.l-prln.tre  1.2   71.9   73.1     0.1     9.1     9.2    94
utildnwg                205.0    0.0   205.0    23.3    0.0    25.3         0
Rehab. of Po.ur and A/C   1.0    0.5   10.5        0.1     1.2     1.8
Veic les                 24.0    15.0   809.0       .0     2.0     5.0
Training                  0.7    49.8    49.0      0.1     S.0    6.2      of
Coeultency                8.5   56.0    0.4        0.4     7.k    7.6    94
Viec. &ad Ancillary Eqpt.    0.1  7.9     4.0      0.0     1.0    1.0   90
Customs Duties          800.0    0.0   800.0    87.3    0.0    87.8         0
Bs" Cost                 74-.0 YMW.7 u,0W:3 7NE9   2.6 --iiX
Physical Contingency     74.0   115.0   190.4      9.4    14.6    24.0     S 61
Price Contingency       272.0   *09.4 1 051.4      9.8    28.7   3U.0    70i
Project Cost           ,092.  T.1.  4i&J4:0  --ff2.0  1U7.0 --7A           75
Interest During Construction
On Bank Loan             0.0   211.8   120.1      0.0    20.6   20.5   100
On Other Loans           0.0   158.9   153.9      0.0    15.4   16.4   100
Totol Finanaing Required 1,092.4 8,611.0 4,704.2    112.6   870.9   488.5    7?
3.12       The physical contingencies are 52 on local and foreign costs for
equipment and services and 1OX on civil works. Price contingencies are
based on annual domestic inflation rates as follows for local costs at 252
in 1990 and 102 thereafter; and international inflation rates for foreign
costs at 4.9Z for 1990 and onwards. It is assumed that the exchange rates
will vary during the period to adjust for the difference between local and
foreign inflation.
D. Protect Financing
3.13       The sources of project financing are detailed in Annex 3-4 and
summarized in Table 3.2. The Bank loan of US$225 million will meet about
672 of the foreign cost requirement excluding interest during construction.
The PGN has informed the Bank that it has approached the Japanese
government for possible co-financing for an amount up to US$110 million.
The African Development Bank has shown interest in co-financing the
project.  NITEL will finance the interest during construction amounting to
US$35.9 million.



-17_
Table 3.2. Project Financing
Source                        Loal           Foreign            Total
--------US$ Million Equivalent-------
IEUD                           -              225.0             225.0
Cofinanciers                   -              110.0             110.0
NITSL                        112.6             35.9             148.5
TOTAL                        112.6            370.9             483.5
3.14      The Bank loan of US$225 million equivalent vould be lent to
NITEL at the Bank's variable interest rate for 20 years including a five
year grace period. Credits from co-financing sources are currently assumed
to be onlent by FGN to NITEL at 82 p.a. for 15 years including five years
grace on principal repayment. NITSL will bear the foreign exchange risk on
Bank loan and credits.
3.15      Until 1988, FGN was meeting most of the local costs of ongoing
telecomunications development, Bsed on the improved financial
performance in 1989, domestic tariff increase effective February 1990
(para 4.10) and actions agreed to be taken by NITEL (paras 4.04 and 4.06),
NITEL is expected to meet its local cost requirement of its investment
program estimated at about 11.4 billion, through internal cash generation.
3. PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procurement
3.16      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3. Gods and
services to be financed by bilateral sources will comply with the
guidelines of the individual donor country. Equipment worth
US$202.4 million to be financed by the Bank would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Proprietary items totalling US$7.3 million covering spares and
rehabilitation of existing equipment will be procured from sole source by
direct negotiations with original suppliers. Given the limited number of
suppliers, limited international bidding (LID) would be used to procure
training equipment, test equipment and specialized tools (US$1.2 million).
Bank financed contracts fot more than US$300,000 equivalent each, which are
expected to cover 902 of the total value of Bank financed contracts, *ould
be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.
Selection of ,ank financed consultants (about US$8.8 million equivalent)
wi ould be in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local and overseas
fellowships estimated at US$5.9 million would be provided by direct
negotiations with the academic institutions concerned. Contracts, for
consultants emloyed under PPF advance (US$0.75 million), or 92 of total
V       consultancy contracts under the project, have already been executed wnder
Bank guidelines.  Tender for the spare parts and equipment for
rehabilitation of Lagos network estimated at US$15 million has been issued.



- l -
Table 3.3:  Procureamt ArraneeU_ts  1/
(US$ millions)
Pu.1..~ I*_                   Puua~ee.    ICC rcl                  TLDL42O
b16lm   q          0"ips 4.0     4.4      -       - 454.0 /         1V4.2
(01.0)       (4.5)                               (06.1)
Lxbterel Limo PlaIt  182.0        -       -       -    01.4 V      164.8
(117.4)                                          (117.4)
Left DIslm         7.0           1.       -       -     4.9 /       14.0
Tratm_lssio      (.69)        (1.4)                                0.1)
Ips_ cemlcatlhe   8.6             -       -       -      -           5.5
(8.4)                                             (8.4)
Tel -p_   and      10.6           -       -       -      -          10.0
T.l.prilmtr       (10.4)                                          (10.4)
Poor and                         1.6      -       -      -           1.
Airconditloning               (1.4)                               (1.4)
B.l dle"            -            -       -    81.8      _          81.8
Vbeicls            5.9                                   - _._
(2.8)                                             (2.3)
Tratinng            -             -      1.2 3/  -       .9          7.1
(1.2)         (6.3)         (7.0)
Consultwlny         -             -       -       -     8.6  M/     *5.
(6.8)       (6.8)
Ancillary          1.2                -           -      -           1.2
Esuemn _.                                1:! (11  -     - -c,1
tx a T 9 1 2 u 8 ~~~~1U.6               40z.6
TOTAL            (202.4)        7.8)   (1.2)           (14.1)      (5.0)
(Pigures In parentheses are amounts to be financed by Bank loan.)
) ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ' 
11   Zxcludes duties and txes (US$45.3 million) and Interest during
construction (US$35.9 million) but includes contingencies.
2/   According to co-financiers' procurement procedures.
31   LID me  od to be used for specialized training equipment available
from liited suppliers.
4/ Da^mk guidelines for the eployment of consult:ats.



- 19-_
S. Disbursement
3.17    The Bank loan of US$225 d llion  ould be disbursed against 1002 of
foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles, training and consultancy
services, as shown in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4:  Disburoement of Proposed Loan
Amount                  Financed by
C4tegory                      (USS Million)                  lank
1. Switching, tranmission                159.40                 1002 foreign
and subscriber terminal                                      expenditure
equipment and cables
2. Vehicles, power, airconditioning,      13.30                 1002 foreign
tools and test equipment                                     expenditure
3. Training (includiog equipment) and      6.10                 1002 foreign
fellowships                                                  expenditure
4. Consultancy Services                    6.50                 1002 foreign
expenditure
5. Refinancing of PPF                      0.75
6.\Unallocated                            38.95
225.00
3.18     The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3-5 and
includes disbursement in FY88, FY89 and FY90 for PPF. Based on the Bank's
standard disbursement profile for a11 projects in West Africa,
disbursments mould be completed in December 31,\ 1999. However, since
NITEL will appoint project management consultants and execute contracts on
turnkey basis to accelerate project implementation, the disbursements are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1995. A special foreign currency
account of US$10 million equivalent will be established by NITEL in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. This
amount represents four months estimted payments to contractors and
consultants directly by NITEL durinft the peak implomentation period of 1992
and 1993. The special account would be used fot disbursements against all
eligible expenditures and it would be replenished by the Bank on
application by NITEL. All disbursement applications would be fully
documentea with the exception of applications relating to expenditures
under contract valued less than US$50 000 equivtlent, which would be
disbursed on the basis of statement of expeMditures (80E).
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 20 -
3.19     NITIL will maintain separate accounts in accordance with accepted
accounting principles to maintain records of all expenditures specific to
the Bank project, coemitments, reimbursements and the status of project
funds. With respect to the amount withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, NITML
will prepare and maintain records such as contracts, invoices and evidence
of payments readily available for inspection. During negotiations, it was
a*reed that Special Accounts, Project Accounts and SOEs will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the reporcs will be
submitted to the Bank with audited financial accounts for each fiscal year.
C.  Implementation
3.20     The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3-6.  The
implementation of this complex project requires very careful planning to
optimize NITEL's limited financial and manpower resources. In addition,
the timely completion of the project is a prerequisite for the financial
viability of NITEL. This calls for a comprehensive project management
organization to supplement NITEL's existing organization.
3.21        NITEL's physical projects are implemented by five zones with
the headquarters' Planning and Operations Unit playing only a monitoring
role. Since NITEL has not planned and executed such a large project, to
ensure its timely completion NITEL has agreed to:
ge) employ consultants to assist in overall coordination,
preparation of technical specifications and bid
documents, evaluation of bids and contract negotiations,
supervision of contractors, installation and acceptance
testing;
(b)  execute contracts on turnkey basis; and
(c)  train planning, installation and maintenance personnel.
3.22     The efficient implementation of the management consultancy
services is critical to the success of the project. The action plan for
the implementation of the project is detailed in Annex 3-7. To ensure
timely appointment of these consultants, the appointment of the project
management and financial consultants is a condition of loan effectiveness.
D.   Overall Proiect Management
3.23     The physical and institutional components of the project will be
managed by five functional units within NITEL consisting of:
a)   physical project implementation;
b)   network planning;
c)   manpower development and training;
d)   finance; and
e)   computerizatin.
I
An organizational chart for overall project management is shown at
Annex 3-8. Each of these units will have a qualified team leader who will



- 21'-
report directly to the concerned Director of the function in NITEL. For
instance the team leader of the financial consultmncy service will report
to the Director of Finance who will be his controlling officer. The
physical execution, which includes installation, supervision and acceptance
testing of the physical components vill be under the control of the
respective Zonal General Managers. A Project Director reporting directly
to the Managing Director will directly supervise the overall project
implementation and coordination. The consultants for the project
management will be under the control of the Project Director. These
consultants vill assist the Project Director in preparing all procurement
documents, evaluation of bids, and contract negotiations. They would also
assist NITEL's staff in supervision of contractors and acceptance testing
and commissioning of equipment.
3.24     Each functional team leader in the headquarters and in the
individual zones will prepare, with consultants' assistance, and issue
monthly progress reports to the Project Director who will convene regular
monthly meetings to discuss these reports. ?The Project Director, assisted
by the Project Management Team Leader will prepare and issue consolidated
quarterly progress reports for the management with Executive Summaries to
be submitted to the Bank. During negotiations, the project management
arrangements were agreed.
E. Performance Indicators
3.25     NITEL will prepare annually for the Bank's review a compairative
analysis of its actual performance against the target indicators.
Accordingly, NITEL's overall performance during project implementation will
be monitored by means of selected performance indicators relating to
technical, operational and financial performance, subscriber connections,
service quality, and staffing. These indicators and the annual targets
which will form a part of the performance contract between FGN and NITEL
(para 2.18) are shown in Annex 3-9. While targets for later years are
indicative, those for 1990 were agreed duriig negotiations as representing
desirable and feasible levels of attainment. The target for subsequent
years will be agreed jointly between NITEL and the Bank by October 31 of
the preceding year together with any corrective actions necess4ry.
Continuous monitori#g of project implementation as well as NITEL's
operational and financial performance and efficiency\vill assist NITEL in
improving its management and allow timely corrective ictions to be taken,
when nedessary. During negotiations, it was agreed that NITEL will report
progress against technical and operational indicators in the quarterly
progress reports to be submitted to the Bank within 4ix weeks of the end of
each,quarter, and against financial indicatoes in annual financial
statements.



- 22 -
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. NITEL's Past Financial Perforsance
4.01       Audited and unaudited financial state_ents for the years FY85-88
are at Annex 4-1, and the key elements are su=arized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Selected Historical tinancial Performance Indic-tors
(Nairs Million)
1985     1986     1987      1988
Gross Revenue                         283.5    260.9    406.3    676.9
Outpayment                             21.3     37.6    181.4    143.9
Net Revenue                           262.2    223.3    224.9    533,0
Total Operating Cost  11              424.8    340.1    271.1    234.4
Net Operating Income(Loss)           (162.6)  (116.8)   (46.2)   298.6
terest on Loans  21                    82.5     37.6       2.0      2.1
Nt Income(Loss)                      (245.1)  (15.4)   (48.2)   296.5
Subscriber Accounts Receivable          228      242       178      145                |
(Days Billing)
Current Ratio (Times)                   0.5      0.5       0.5      0.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                      23:77    27s73    28:72    31s69
1/ In 1985 pre-NITEL bad debt of 344.2 million ws written off.  Total cost
also includes bad debt provision for the year which accounts for about
20Z of total billing. Depreciation charges are low because some assets
which are in service are yet to be transferred from work in progress
account to fixed assets account.
2/ The financi4l statements include only actual payment of interest for the
fiscal year.  Due to poor financial\I erformance, NITEL did not service
its debt in full, only some interest payments were made.
4.02       NITEL*s financial performance during FY85-87 peri4d has been
poor. NI*EL incurred losses during this period and the rate of return\was
negative and internal cash generation was insufficient to cover its debt
service obligations. The factors that had contributed to poor financ al
performance w res (a) low tariffs (pares 4.08 and 4.09); (b) poor quality
of servic; (para 2.09) due to poor maintenance of the network for lack of
\       :~~~~~~



- 23 -
spare parts as well as proper maintenance systems and procedure resulting
in low revenue earning traffic; and (c) high billing inefficiencies. It is
estimted that 402 of intenmational traffic was not billed for technical
and other reasons.
4.03       gffective February 1988, international tariffs were increased
substantially to avoid an imbalance between incoming and outgoing
international traffic and avoid net outflow of funds to other countries.
This resulted in higher total international revenues and NITIL realized a
pre-tax profit of 3296.5 aillion for the year, which is a return of about
61 on revalued net fixed assets.   The increased international tariff also
resulted in a net flow of internatioial traffic in favor of Nigeria, which
is a source of foreign exchange income for NITEL. During 1989, the quality
of service and billing and collection performance have been improved
through better maintenance efforts and implementation of recommendations of
consultants financed under the PPF Advance. These will be further liproved
under the Project. In addition, the domestic tariffs have been increased
substantially effective February 1990 (para 4.09),
B. NITIL's Present Financial Position
4.04       The absence of asset revaluation distorts the balance sheet of
NITEL. Consultants have been employed by NITEL to assist it in the
revaluation of its fixed assets and prepare an asset register, and the
consultants will also proposesa methodology to revalue NITEL's assets
annually based on agreed procedure so as to reflect their current
replacement value. The financial position of NITEL, as per its unaudited
balance sheet at the end of 1988 is summarized in Table 4.2. NITEL ias
facing liquidity problems, and had to rely on FGN for servicing of its
external debt and on non-payment of debt service to FGN on Naira debt. It \
had a negative working capital of about 3206 million in 1988 (a current
ratio of only 0.9) and significant debt service arrears. The factors that
have contributed to this are: (a) very poor financial performance (pars
4.02); (b) poor collections performance with accounts receivable (net of
bad debt provision) at 3272 million, which is equivalent to about five
months of billing for the year as against an acceptable norm of two months
of billing.



-24-
Table 4.2: NISTL USaudited Balance Shoet as of December 31, 1988
: (Ba    Zetisate)
laira         As 2 of
Million        Total Assets
Assets
Total Not Fixed Assets                  259.8           5
Work in Progress 1I                   3,006.0          62
Investments                              48.4           1
Current Assets                        1,535.5          32
Total Assets                          4,849.7         100
Liabilities
Equity                                2,117.9          44
Long-term Debt 21                       962.7          20
Others                                   27.5           1
Current Liabilities                   1,741.6          35
Total Liabilities                     4,849.7         100
Current Ratio (times)                     0.9
Debt/Eauity Ratio                       31:69
1l Work in progress account Includes some assets which are already in
service.
21 The balance sheet does not include about 3348 million equivalent of loan
for works carried out during'FY88 under the Siemens' contract which is
to be transferred to NITEL from FGN.
C. Financial Obiectives
4.05     As an important step in the comamercialization of NITEL and to set
NITEL on the path towards financial self-sufficiency, the following
financial objectives were agreed during negotiationst
(a) finance from internally generated funds net of debt
service obligations, the local cost component of its
annual investment progrm;
(b) earn an annual rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets of not less than 102 in 1991 and thereafter;
(c) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5
throughout the project period;
(d) maintain debt equity ratio not more than 60:40;
and



-23-
(6) maintain accounts receivable at a nazimu of 120
days of billing by 1990, 90 days by 1992 and 60
days in 1994 and thereafter.
D. Proiected Financial Performance
4.06      The projected financial perfomanc  of NITlL and the assuptions
used are at Annexes 4-2 and 4-3, respectively. These projections reflect
the improved financial performance in FY69. The key eleMents of the
projections-are suarized in Table 4.3.
?tble 4.3: Selected Financial Performance Indicators
(Naira Million)
19a    19w0    l99l    zest   is 1994
Not Revenue              1,147.1 2,297.1 2,659.2 8,159.4 8,693.0 4,7U.1
Totl Operating Cost        526.7   772.6   942.9 1,127.6 1,80.9 1,740.5
Not Operatimg Income (La")  620.4 1,524.5 1,716A.  2,081.6 2,802.1 8,014.9
Intrest on L*4ns           188.0   214.2  2M5.    807.1   8S.   872.8
Foreign Exchang Los         1.b     1.1     0.5    25.0   127.6   18.1
Tax                        194.6   52S.7   572.0   079.0   744.2   991.
Net Income(Loss)           291.3   75.5   656.0 1,019.7 1,116.8 1,487.7
Operating Revenue/DEL
Constast ('9 Pricm)       5,062   C 6,998   6,762   6,567   6,817   O,7
Cash Op Cost/DEL
Conetnt ('59 Prieos)      1,620   1,580   1,474   1,406   1,867   1,897
Net InOernal Csh Genwration   1025    111W   sOX     s1i      783    179X
Rate of Return on Not
Rovel d Asset 7s                '   18x      18x     14X    1in      1o
Subscriber Account Receivable 150   120      110     g0      75       6
(Days IlliI 1g9)
Current Ratio (Time)        1.0     1.8      1.6     1.9     2.2     2.9
Debt/Equity Rtilo           87:68   U0:62   89s61   46:54   48:57   89:61
Debt Srvice Coverge         2.6    4.2       2.6     8.0    8.5      4.1
4.07      The financial situation of NITEL is ezpected to improve and N$TEL
is expected to meet its financial objectives (para 4.05) with the following
measures being adopted by FGN and NITEL:
(a) annual review of tariffs and Implementation of
adjustments necesqary (para 4.10);
(b) improvement in billing and collection performance
(para 2.25);
(c) improvement of tecbnical efficiency and quality
of service to improve the call completion rates
and consequent increase in revenue per
subscribe.  Reduce average faults per DEL per
year from 2 in 1988 to 1 by 1993,in the whole
country and from 0.4 in 1988, to 0.2 by 1993 in
Lagos. Improve call completion rate for local



- 26 -
calls from about 20S to 701 by 1993, for long
distance from 20X to 601 by 1993, *nd thereafter
and for international calls from 3OZ to 501 by
1993 and thereafter (para 3.25 and Aner 3-9)1
and
(d) reduction of operating costs through Improved staff efficiency
and reduction in staff ratio. Reduce staff per 1000 DEL. from
66 in 1988 to 60 in 1990, 55 In 1991 and 50 in 1992, and
thereafter (para 2.19).
As a result of the above seasures, net profit is expected to Svrove from
about 3292 million in 1989 to about 31,488 dillio, by 1994, resulting Ln an
increase in rate of return on revalued net fixed assets In operation from
about 71 in 1989 to about 16Z by 1994. Operating revenue per DEL in real
terms is expected to increase from about 15,082 In 1989 to 36,705 in 1994,
reflecting expected improvement in quality of service due to better
maintenance and rehabilitation of the network, and Improved billing
efficiencies. Cash operating cost per DEL during the sa period is
expected to decrease in real terms from 31,520 to 31,397 due to staff
efficiencies. During the forecast per1od, MITEL  s expected to gnerate
internal funds adequate to meet its local cost component of its annual
investments. The liquidity position of NITEL is expcted to Improve from
0.9 in 1988 to 2.9 in 1994. The debt equity ratlo remains satisfactory
throughout the forecast period.
E. Pro3ected Financing Plan
4.08     Table 4.4 below stm-arizes NITZi's sources and applications of
funds for the 1990-94 period. MITEL is expected to finance about 592 of
the total cost of its investment progrm and work$ng capital needs.



- 27 -
Table 4.4: NITIL - Prolected Sources and,Applications of Funds
(Naira Million)
Period           Percentage
1990-94           of Total
Sources
Net Income Before Interest              6,7G0                 64
Depreciatioa                            1,708                 16
Foreign Exchange Loss (Gain)              318                  3
Internal Cash Generation                8,786                 83
Less: Debt Service                      2,570                 24
Net Internal Cash Generation            6,216                 59
Loans                                   4,402                 41
Total Sources                          10,618                100
Applications
Capital tsxpenditure                    6,793                 64
Working Capital                         3,826                 36
Total Applications                     10,618                100
2. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Tariffs
4.09     The present telecommunications tariffs are at Annex 4-4.
International tariffs were substantially increased (average of about 6002)
effective February 1988, to adjust for changes in exchange tate and
accounting rate. This has been an important step in the government's
effort to commercialize NITEL's operation. PGN and NITEL are fully aware
of the need for regular adjustments in international tariffs to reflect
changes in exchange rate to ensure that the net flow of traffic continues
in favor of Nigeria.
4.10     The domestic tariffs were substantially increased effective 1990.
Call charges for telephone and telexes were increased by 8002 and 16001,
respectively. Rental charges for both services were increased by 3002.
These increases should enable NITEL to achieve its financial objectives
(para 4.04). For the past decade, no attempt other than increasing the
connection charges has been made. The structure has been unchanged since
1972 except for the timing of local calls from October 1988 which will ease
soe of the congestion in the local network. FGN is aware of this problem
as well as the need for adequate and timely adjustment of tariffs.
therefore, the President has constituted a Commission which has been
charged with the responsibility to review tariffs for the parastatal
sector, including telecommunications. This Commission is expected to
employ consultants specialized in different sectors to review tariff levels
and structure and identify an appropriate tariff review procedure to permit



-28-
sowe automaticity for future tariff increases. rGN has agreed to furnish
the Bank with a copy of the recommendations on telecommunications tariffs.
S.   Bnefits
4 11     Tolecomunlications is a highly cost effective and preferred
alternative to physical transportation, as it is more efficient in terms of
energy and capital consumption and of user tim. The project would
therefore promote more efficient counmications, in particular within
Lagos, and between Lagos and some of the larger state capitals.
Telecommunications is necessary for making markets work better by providing
a cost effective means for the flow of information. The project will
therefore particularly benefit business and the export trade whose
encouragement is a central feature of FGN's Structural Adjustment Program.
4.12     The project at this time would confer additional benefits.  The
more rational development of the network, allied vith appropriate pricing
policies, would increase the flow of resources from the sector to the
government. This increased flow could be used to expand service in the
rural areas, where economic benefits would exceed the financial capacity to
pay, to the benefit of the economy as a whole.
C.   Least Cost Solution
4.13     The project design has been based on least cost solution
methodologies for telecommunications development. The timing and
dimensioning of the project components are based on generally accepted
engineering practice after the study of feasible alternatives, and taking
into account existing investments. Network rehabilitation and expansion
will be carried out by using the latest digital and optical fiber
technology except in those cases where the marginal cost of expanding
existing analog equipment is comparatively lower; for instance where the
basic capacity is available and expansion would only involve minor
additions of sub units.
D.   Return on Investment
4.14     Assuming that the domestic and international tariffs are adjusted
to reflect changes in cost and in exchange rate, respectively, from 1994,
the internal financial rate of return on NITEL's 1990-94 investment program
is about 17.22 (Annex 4-5). Adjusting for taxes from financial costs and
benefits and shadow pricing local costs, the minimum estimated internal
economic rate of return is about 23.72. This underestimates the benefits
to be derived from the investment, because it does not take into account
consumer surplus and indirect, as well as external benefits received by
non-users of telecommunications services. Sensitivity analysis shows that
a 202 increase in capital costs combined with a 202 reduction in benefits
would reduce the estimated internal economic rate of return to 172. This
is, however, unlikely because: (a) the cost of telecommunications equipment
will continue to decrease in real terms, due to advances in technology;
(b) each year NITEL will review with the pank the composition of its
capital expenditure program for the next five years (para 3.04); and



- 29 -
tc) benefits will be ensured through timely implementation of the project
(para 3.21) and maintaining tariffs at appropriate levels (para 4.06). On
balance, there is a good prospect that the project will earn a high
economic return.
E.   Risks
4.15     There are three principal risks of the project.  Firstly, the
project itself could be subject to considerable delays in execution given
the poor implementation record in the sector in Nigeria. This risk is
being mlainized by both adequate advance procur mnt planning and review of
NITEL' s procurement procedures and appointment of project management and
financial management consultants as conditions for loan effectiveness.
Secondly, the project may be poorly coordinated or compromised by other
investments under the program. This risk is being minimized through
consultancy financed under the project to review the investment program.
Thirdly, there may be delays in terms of assuring the commercialization of
NITEL. This risk is considered small given the commitments by FGN.
Finally. annual review by FGN and the Bank of NITEL's achievements would
provide a framework to ensure satisfactory implementation of the
institutional aspects of the proposed project.
F.  Environmental and Health Aspects
4.16     The project is expected to have no adverse environmental and
health aspects. Indeed, the project should improve both by reducing the
need for wasteful physical transportation and improving the delivery of
health services.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the following agreements were reachedt
(a) furnish to the Bank, by October 31, 1990, for its
review and coments the final draft of the
,performance contract to be entered into between NITEL
and FGN; begin implementation by January 1, 1991
(para 2.18);
(b) improve NITEL's billing and collection performance,
and reduce outstanding subscriber receivables to 120
days of billing for the year by 1990, 90 days by 1992
and 60 days by 1994 and maintain it thereafter
(paras 2.25 and 4.04):
(c) submit draft and audited financial accounts for each
fiscal year within four and six months of the end of
the fiscal year starting in fiscal year 1990. Submit



- 30 -
draft and audited accounts for fiscal year 1989
within nine and twelve onths of the end of the
fiscal year (para 2.25).
(d) submit audits of project accounts, special
accounts and statemnt of expenditures along with
audited financial accounts for each fiscal year
(para 3.19);
(e) review with the Bank not later than October 31 of
each year the composition of its capital expenditure
progran for the five year i ediately following such
review, together with details of the financing plan
prepared for such program until the completion of the
Project (para 3.04);
(f) technical, operational and financial performance
indicators and targets for 1990. Targets for
subsequent years, together with action plan to
improve performance, if necessary, will be agreed
upon by October 31 of the preceding year (para 3.25
and Annex 3-9);
(g) report progress on the project implementation and
against technical and operational indicators in the
quarterly progress reports to be submitted within six
weeks of the end of each quarter and against:
financial indicators in the annual financial
statements (para 3.25); and
(h) NITEL will: (i) finwnce from internally generated
funds net of debt service obligations, the local cost
component of its annual investment program; (ii) earn
an anntal rate of return on revalued net fixed assets
of not less than 10X in 1991 and thereafter;
(iii) maintain a debt service;coverage ratio of at
least 1.5; a*d (iv) maintain debt equity ratio not
more than 60:40 (para 4.05).
5.03      The main conditions for loan effectiveness are:
(a) the appointment of consultants for project
management and financial management (para 3.09);
and
(b)  the issuance of letters of invitation for remaining
consultancy services (para 3.09).



\ 31-
5.04    Subject to agreemmt being reached on the above, the proposed
project Is mitable for a *k lo*a  of V8$225 millien equivalent at the
Bank' variable rate of Interest for 20 years, including a five-year grace
period.
AFTIE
may 16, 19i0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~



32-
Annex 2-1
FEDEAL RZPUILIC oF gIoSkI
RIGhBRIAN TLOSCCflICAftI.'S LIMITD (NITEIL)
1IR8T TILICOSNICATIONS PROJCT
zxisting Telecomunications Facilities
(As of March 31, 1968)
It.                                                      XNumber
Local Telephone Exchanges                                           259
- of which manually operated                                        8
Installed Capacity Lines                                         387,602
Subscribers iconnected                                           246,104
Local Networks
- primary pairs (pair x kna)                                 $,874,400
- secondary pairs (pair x kms)                                 414,500
National Transit Exchanges                                            46
installed Trunks                                                  20,214
International Transit Exchanges                                        2
International circuits                                               541
Microwave Systems                                                    376
Route-km Trunk Routes                                              9,600
Route-km Toll-routes                                               4,640
Trunk Circuit Capacity (channel x km)                         27,786,800
Toll Circuit Capacity (chann4l x km)                           2,437,200
Coaxial Cable (channel x km)                    ,1,632,600
Multiplex, primary groups terminated                               5,188
Telex Exchanges                                                       17
Telez Installed Capacity                                          12,800
Telex Subscribers Connected                                        5,727
Gent*x Stations                                                      301
Telex Transit Exchanges                                                3'
Telex Trunk Circuits                                               5,432I
International Telex Exchanges                                          1
International Telex CiFcuits                                         245
gatellite Earth Statioias
- international                                                      2
- domestic                                                          21             k
Coastal Radio Station (Maritim Nobile Radio)                           1



I                                             - 33-
Annex 2-2
N RIFA DERL RZPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
j NIGDRIAN TELWCOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED (NI$TL)
FIRST TELECOIIUNICATIONS PROJECT'
!                                        Existing Demand
(March 31. 1988)
Zone
Item             N-E        S-E       N-V       S-W      Lagos     Total
Subscribers      17,503      49,751    33,988    55,354    89,508    246,104
Registered       10,157      29,622    41,054    27,421    55,163    163,417
Waiters
Expressed        27,660      79,373    75,042    82,775   144,671    409,521
Demand
Suppressed       36,790    107,835   119,929   115,985   226,000    606,539
Demand
Total Potential  64,450    187,208   194,971   198,760   372,671  1,016,060
Subscriber        0.075Z      0.212     0.11Z     0.25Z      2.50?     0.232
Demand Density 1/
Demand Density   \0.12Z       0.342     0.23Z      0.37Z     4.00t     0.39?
Potential Density 0.28?       0.81Z     0.61?      0.90Z    10.30Z     0.98Z
1/Lines per 100 population.



I~ ~ ~a            I       'LAB               Snw          uv               1              ,MVL   Ia.
x~~~~~~~~In                                      7      m                                77                       I                  am
o*                        oivm   I =aw*w91=
(.4, 
urn
Kmum La                   miuv
n U-
amm



-35-
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN TE40b"ICATIONS LI_ITED (NITEL)
FIRST TKLECOOUNICATIONS PROJECT
Commercialization of"'NITEL
The future relationship\ between the Goverbment and NITEL should
be base^ on the following:  (a) establishing clear and attainable,\
objectives compatible with commercial operations; (b) providing NZTEL's
management greater autonomy over its:operations and the selection of
managers capable of operating independently; (c) establishing clear rules
and procedures for government involvement in decision making; and (d)
holding the management accountable by negotiating targets, monitoring and
evaluating results and rewarding them and their staff on the basis of
performance.'
2.        The above new relationship between the Government and NITEL
could best be achieved through a 'performance contract,' under which the
Government would set up medium-term objectives for NITEL, pledge to meet
its financial and other obligations in a timely manner and extend greater
autonomy in exchange for NITEL's commitment to achieve agreed performance
in the efficiency and Feliabilit' of its telecommunications services and in
the maintensnce of itslassets. The performance contract could be reviewed
annually and modified as necessary based on experience.
3.        The Government should agree to the followings
(a)  Provide support for NITEL's efforts to make its
organization more responsive to telecomuunications
sector needs in fulfillment of its assigned role under
its Act.
(b)  Hake NITEL's management accountable to its board and
not to the Ministry of Comunnications (HOC).
Therefore, it would be self-defeating for the Chairman
of NITEL's',Board to be from within either the
Government or NITEL itself. The members of the Board
should include individuals and representatives of
commercial and consumer groups who are properly
qualified with extensive and proven management
capabil ties and who offer a diversity of skills,
independent viewpoints and experiences.  They s9ould
be compensated well an} take the job seriously. The
Government should decentralize power to the Board of
Directors as a way to depoliticize decisions and take
NITEL's interests inio account.
(c)  Assure that the management team of NITEL 2s competent,
business-minded, and action-oriented with utmost
regard to efficiency in 'operationallfinancial matters.
The Managing Director should be appointed by the Board



- 36 -
ANNM= 2-4
Page 2 of 4
in coniultation with and approval of the Government.
The HManaging Director should be left free to appoint\
his top wanagement teas.
(d) Give the Board the primary responsibility for
providing strategic guidance to the management and
m onitoring performance within the overall framework of
long-term objectives of the Government for the
telecammunications sector. The Board's functions
would include decision-making on the medium and long-
term borrowing over and above stated amounts, short-
term borrowings in excess of normal requirements,
major capital expenditures exceeding predefined
limits, new or revised compensation programs, salary
increases and bonuses for the Managing Director and
top executives. It would review and approve strategic
plans, annual budgets and audited financial
statements, and discuss regular and special reports.
It would review management's effectiveness in running
the day-to-day business, but abttain from intervention
in day-to-day operations. The Board should be
responsible to the Government, which would restrict
its role to the setting of long-term objectives for
NITEL including key monitorable performance
indicators, against whith the performance of the
organization and its Board wouldWbe judged.  If this
performance is unsatisfactory, the Government could
replace the Board in part or in its entirety.
(e) Delegate authority to NITEL to determine all contract
awards for,capital goods, spares and maintenance.
NITEL's management should be able to award all
contracts with Board approval.  The NITEL management
should be\able to award contracts (without the Board's
approval) up to US$5 million. These limits should be
revised regularly to keep pace with inflation.
(f) Delink NIXEL's salary structure form that of the civil
service, as in the case of NNPC.  The salary structure
should be competitive and flexible to attract and
retain qualified and highly competent personnel."
(g)  Agree on financial objectives for the sector.
(h)  Provide NITEL in a timely manner with the capital
required for commercially unatractive projects the
Government wishes NiTEL to constlruct (e.g., rural
telecoimnunications).
Mi) Arra nge for the immediate settlement by Government



-37-
AMNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 4
departments and parastatals of their past due
telecounications bills with NITEL; and also of
arrears of DITUL to other parastatals. Institute a
mechanism to ensure that the Governent dbpartments
and parastatals will pay their bills to NITZL within
30 days.
tj)  Allow NITCL to effect regular tariff increases as
neqessary to achieve its financial objectives. Allow
NIIfL to incorporate an automatic adjustment clause in
tariffs so as to neutralize the impact of change in
exchange rate and inflation to NITEL vithout the need
to obtain specific Government's approval for this
purpose.
4.        To summarize, the Government's role should be limited to setting
basic objectives for NITEL (to develop and maintain an efficient,
coordinated and economical system to provide telecoummications on a
comercial basis)5 approving Board members, and the Board's selection of
the Managing Directors reviewing and evaluating perfornmnce of the Board in
meeting the above objectives; reviewing financing decisions that affect
pub'ic fundn (for example, requests for Government equity, debt vith
Government guarantee, etc.); reviewing tariff levels proposed by NITEL
according to agreed principles; and long-range planning and coordination
across sectors. The performance evaluation should focus only on a
comparison of efficiency and profitability achievements with targets.
Reliable and timely flow of appropriatt standardized information is
critical to good performance evaluation.
5.        NITEL should agree to the following:
(a) ZBevelop and implement improved personnel management
policies and a staffing plan aimed at streamlining the
work force to match job requirements with appropriate
skills and eliminate overstaffing.
(b) Promote operat tonal efficiency, increase staff
productivity from 46 employees per 1,000 DELs in 1988
to 50 by 1992, reduce average faults per DEL per year
from 2 to 1 by 1993 in Nigeria and from 0.4 to 0.2 by
1993 in Lagos.  Improve call completion rate for local
calls from about 202 to 60Z by 1993.
(c) Reduce the average aie of accounts receivaol? from
about 140 days gf revenue to 120 days by end\1990, 90
days by end 1992, and 60 days by end 1994, and
maintain it thereafter at the same level.
\(d) Develop plans by June 30, 1991 for improved management
information, budgeting and financial reporting systams
and take stlps for their implementation.



- 38 -
Ahuzi 2-4
Page 4 of 4
(e) Develop plans by June 30, 1991 for an improved
innpower development program, and take steps to
fi pleet the findings ia  phased manner by December
31, 1992.
(f) Nave its accounts audited by qualified and independent
auditors in a timely manner within six months of the
close of the fiscal year.
(g)  Improve its tariff levels and operations to (i)
'generate adequate internal funds to finance all t#e
local costs required for its annual capital
xpenditure, (ii) earn a rate pf return on net
revalued fixed assets of not 1lss than 72 in 1990, lOZ
In 1991 and thereafter, (iii) maintain a debt service
coverage ration of at least 1.5, and (iv) maintain
debt equity ratio not more than 60:40.



06STMA0IIIIIII&AMS LM          QM
zl      pref- c 11w -4
pT Trcigs wojiT
- 1wo------    -awl-                          --aws-----             -1awe-                  -Iw_--
F It.M ,ua lineal   ai Tv....;w.  7.1   i                        w.     ToW    k a"...l  7.0mg  Tom,Il     f i  .    r.i    Tsui   ia"I Pl    T 
A.    _S    S:                             .61                         806.0 *0.4    11.         . a     .0    0.0 n0.0    0. 0 o0.0 o0.0    0.0
t. _--t,
1.1 1    de   _    Li.                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   118.3  115.2         .   40D.0  467.0   17.7  I14.6  U18.2   *4.6    4.s    e.
1.1                    To.ol. e. Ta.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.0    4.0    0.1   30.0   30.1    0.1   11.1   11.8    0.6    o.               0.0
S.    I.0.1    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0                                           .     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0    0.0    0.0
3.1 wOe Ihodi 6s20d,16 I. 14g             0.01    0             18.      7.  166.6o   75.4    O.8   m.         10,6   14.1    0.0   11.. 601   10
6.1   ?W..e bbeb _10.2.                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   06.7    U.?    14.0   165.0   106.0   *4.0   30.0    40.0    0.0    0:   11::
4-t    uis O t2          8     8     :8      t 4    $X X    u @    o:t 1  477  qo  "       01     e:        4 
4.1  _umg 0l"*l_AWM.isuI                  0.0    0.0    0.0    1.4   10.7   11.1    5.1   47.3   S6.5    1.4   10.7   21.1    0.6    6.0    6.4
4.2      1 bllt.ti.. of La"g 0....        0.      0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0    1.6    0.5    7.1    7.0    0.5    o.s    a..    0O  .0    0.0  .
TooeauIsolef
8.  34.e CeIat 0                     0.       .       .      .       .       .       .      48    1.        .       .       .      .0    1.4    0.4
7.                                       41.0    0.0   41.0   41.0    o.0   41.0   41.0    0.0 t41.0   41.0             .0   41.0   41.0  *0.  40.0
6.  fe. S ...1 .                                                                                        Tit0.0    0.0  0.6    0.6    1.8    0. s.     0..
0.   C*t.                                 0.0    0.0    0.0       .0    2.a    U.        0.     7.      0.0    1.0    0.4   18.4    0.0    0.          .
10. ?w..lgCSsuIo..t sad                  -0.0    0.0    0.0    @.a   11.0   11.0    0.1    11.    12.5    0.0   11.    11.1    0.1   11.0   1111.4
U1.  iUtWP4.0    1.j.                                             .     18.8   14.0    0.0   16.5   17.4    0.6   I8.8   14.1    0.7   10.6   11.6 
12. NI.uII..     W Ad ; MeI Ia I.,I,.     0.0    0.0     0.      0.      a6      10     01      6.      63      00     00      00      06      00     0.
18. @in0. Dot; m                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.        0. o0   1800    0.    1. 1':8O'  . O':   1:    0 -       0     0oo    0.0
on. CS of p._J..                     41.6    1.0   44.4    *.1   860.7  4M.0   1.   18.0  166.4    67.0   8.1   6".               iu.6   17.0  S17.t
-  iaI Cntiastm                       4.2    0.1    4.0    6.2   18.0   24.1   31.    07.    wA    91.6 1g.1   48.n0    6.0   it's   16.0
Pr to. CWRMMYusez                    0.5    0.1    6.6   10.0   S2.0   06.4  107.0  441.7  646.7  110.4  1661.0  1704    16.1  1860   140.1
Preje  Cs"                           84.     8.2   57.5     0.2  400.8  848.8  46.0  a.m.a  3.3.    404.   867.1   7.1              .0  3.       45.0
took Lu.                            0.0    0.1    0.2    0.0    6.8    S.8    0.0    8.* 1        0.2    0.0    0.4   63.4    0..   64.1   66.1
6.. LOW.                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0   87.6    7.6    0.0    0.0   00.6    0.0   46.8   41.6
7101 prWJ     6  .                   84.8    S.4    W7 i    U.    474.0   30.0  453.0 1,00.1 3.4001   404.   78.1 17.3    6.0  461.6    .8
0.  781L 1111i34 c    T                 27.   791.1  "0.0   16.0  611.2  1,140.1  444.1 2,061.6 1,406.0  404.0  7M.* 1,t7.2    ti.0  461.0  311.6
------
4it



~~~~~~~~~m.iwc w w *
mmii.0 iUJMWUAMs LWK 0O3W
pT       t i DNP   0-
-iei-  -1--   -
Legal  Fereigi, 1 .1 n  Ts Loal  P.i.g   T_tal  tool   lw.ip  Tsual   1a   P  i    To%al  Local  Pwlp   Tot"
" * *_V Teg
A.  _ILO  11t                            1.,   t.4  1lt.O       6.      I.0    "4.    I.A    7.8    *.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1.  Tole&um  tAbltakle wdwameo
1.1 t-n  LgU_                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1S.8   14.8    1.,   S7.2   Ji.0   8.    18.7   10.1    0.4   la.s  0,i
1.b2        a,      a. Ta,               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0              0.      0.0    2.      2.5    0.0    1.4    1.4    0.0    0.0  9.0
1.  Tel.. botanga                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
8.1              oh tit 1.1              0.0    0.0    0.0    2.4   1i.8    0.0    O-i   67.2   76.7    2.4   18.2   30.8    1.6   12.7   14.8
*.1 ti ib      ieltio                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.0    4.0    1.0   24.   25.8    1.0    8.8    8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
4.  T,eeamiggla
4.1 Lm0Iot_inK   Tr_m_1_7_s              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    1.4    1.8    0.4    8.0    6.6    0.2    1.4    1.8    0.1    1.1    1.1
4.2    &ltltatiam of Lome D01l_o..       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0    1.0    0Ai    0.1    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
Trom.emil.a
8.  see" Ce. 1.tsk                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8    0.5    0.0    1.6    1.6    0.0    0.8    0.8    0.0    0.8    0.8
.  Tel__,meg  d Telsprmiera              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.4    1.4    0.1    4.1    4.2    0.1    8.6    3.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
7.  ibildka                              8.2    0.0    8.2    8.2    0.0    8.2    8.2    0.0    5.2    8.2    0.0    8.2    8.2    0.0    8.1
8.  Nn. it Ieee, md A/C                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0    1.0    0.1    0.1    0.2             .      .       .
0.  V46lgke                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8    0.8    1.8    0.8    2.4          18    0.8    1.           
10. Tr Inh e.i ~41~Pm) d                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.8    1.1    0.0    1.6    1.4    0.0    1.8    1.4    0.0    1.4    1.8
11.                                      8gunUit   0.1  00.4     0.4    0.1'1l? 1.6    0.1    2.      2.2 80 .1      7o   01.6    0.1    1.4    1.4
13 4stellemae "so    miIle.   t        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2        .       .0.            .       .  0.0.0              .0    0.0    0.0
.         0.0    0.0    0.0   1_.0   18.                                      0.    18.6    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cue .o ProJt                      .2    0.4    S.6    7.S   48.4   88.2   80.4  170.4  210.0   88.7   46.1   61.            7.S   37.4    it.0
'"sisal Cmmtin.a                    0.8    0,0 O .8    0.6    2.8    8.1    4.0   -8.5   12A.    8.4    2.4    5.3    0.6    1.4    1.1
Pr to Camtimw.y                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8    8.0    8.? *       .6   II.6   10.6    5.1    6.*    *.9    0.7    4.1    4.6
Project Cue                          6.7    0.4    7.1    0.4   80.7   80.0   47.4  104.7  242.0   40.2   B6.e'    0.6    9.0   J2.9   41.0
IstarOet DQPMe C.Ngt,WWWO
mt11w  Legs                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.1    8.1    0.0    6.6    6.6    0.0    8.0              .-W -
Wther Len                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.7    0.7    0.0    8.0    8.0    0.0    6.5    0.6    0.0    4.5    4.5
Total project cmS                     6.7    0,4    7.1    0.4   82.2   61.6    47.4  20.6  -t1.0   40.2    7.8   11.6            .     4l.8    02.
0.  TIA3tL 10   COSVT(A._ -40    6i.8  11..0   18.8  10Q.2  12U.S   4S.8  211.1  25.7    40.2   71.8  111                            0.0   46.8   iU.2
-  -



- 41 -
ANNE 8-I
EUAL WAUUC OF MXIA
FIST IEECUCATI  PRJET
=MIA             *       M        (MXX)
Ravetmat Prys.(19160-1904)
TOTAL                              TOTAL
(Mmi. Mill)                         1811 mll)
8, Itm-   19004   -                                                                19044---
Locl  Forein  Total                Local  Foreign  Total
A.  0OODI  PROGRAM                             6.6  1,S.0   ,.                      .9    152.4   166.
S.  NEW WORKS:
1.  Telephone SwItching Exchgd.
1.1 Now Exchange Lin                           4.2 "e.2   S21e4                    C.S    97e6    10Se$
1.2 Spar* Ports, Module, Tools,                 0.J    U.2       8.4               0.0      4.4      4.5
and Toot Equlpmet
2.  T l x Exchange                              0.2      0.0      0.2              0.0      0.0      0.0
3.   External 1.ine Plant (ELP)
8.1 ELP to batch Switching In 1.1             15.5   92C 0 1,060.5                15.6   116.5    132.3
8.2  ELP Network Rehab iltatlon                28.0   259.6   207.6                8.5    82.7    86.2
4.  Tranmsesion
4.1 Long Distance Tronamelo.                    6.6    77.2    6.6                  1.1     9.2    10.6
4.2 Rehabibt ation of Long Distane              1.1      9.5    10.6               0.1      1.2      1.8
Tranaleeton
S.  Space Coamunlcation                         0.5    24.1    24.5                0.1      8.0      8.1
6.  Telepone and Teleprinters                   1.2    71.9    78.1                0.2      9.1      9.2
7.  Building.                                 205.0      0.0   206.0              25.8      0.0    25.6
6.  Rehab. of Power and A/C                     1.0      9.5    10.5               0.1'    1.2       1.S
9.  Vehicle.                                   24.0    1.9    89.9                  8.0     2.0      6.0
10. Tralni n  (EquipmnOt                                 4.nd  0.7    4.1    49.0  0.1      6.1      6.2
F* lowskip.)
il  Consultancy                                 8.5       .6   600.2               0.4      7.2      7.6
12. ulscellaneous and Ancilliory E q  .         0.1'    7.9       *.0              0.0      1.0      1.0
18. Custom Outi"                               00.0      0.0   800.0              87.8      0.0    87.8
Sasm Cost                                745.6 2,816.1  8,062.2               93.9   291.7   385.7
Physi al Contingency                      74.6   115.6   190.4                 9.4    14.6    24.0
Price lContingency                       272.0  6009.4  1,061.4              90.      29.7    37.9
*--  *-  --- ---
Project Cost                           1,062.4  8,241.0 4,884.0              112.6    8.O   447.6
Interest During Construction
Sank Loan                                0.0   211.8   211.8                0.0    20.5    20.5
Other Loane                              0.0    16.9   156.9                0.0    15.4    15.4
Total Project Cost                     1,092.4  8,611.9 4,704.8              112.    $70.9   483.5
C.  TOTAL PRORM COST                        1,876.0  4,914.6  6,22.9             146.5   528.8   66908
I~~ -                               ---  



- 42 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL XIYUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN TELECGMUNICATIONS LIMITED
FIRST TZLZCOIIUNICATIOMS PROJECT
Detailec Proiect Description
A. EXCHANGIS
A.1 LAGOS
Existing       Proposed
Exchange                       Capacity       Capacity
1. Lagos C toll (trunks)               5.900         18,000
2. Iponri A local (LU)                10,000         30,000
3. Ikeja A local (LU)                  5,000         30.000
4. Lagos E (LU) with 5,000 lines         -           45,000
RSU at Ikoyi
5. Ap*pa (LU) with 5,000 lines        10,000         10,000
RSU at Ajegunle
6. Isolo (LU)                          7,000          5,000
7. Victoria Island (LU) with 5,000       -           10,000
RSU at Lekki
A.2 ZONAL CENTERS (Switching)
Existing        Proposed
Exchange                 Zone       Capacity        Capacity
1. Enugu Local (LU)         SE         16,000          20,000
2. Enugu (trunks)           SE          3,876           3,200
Secondary Centre
3. Onitshia Local (LU)      SE         10,000          15,000
4. Onitshia (trunks)        SE          1,241           1,800
5. Aba Local (LU)           SE          8,000          20,000
6. Aba (trunks)             SE            477           1,000
7. Port Harcourt (LU)       SE          7,000          20,000
8. Port Harcourt (trunks)   SE          1,452           2,000
9. Nnewi Local (LU)         SE          1,000          10,000
10. Ogoja Local (LU)         SE            500           5,000
11  Ogoja (trunks)           SE                            700
12. Orlo Lotal (LU)          SE          1,000           5,000
13. Overri Local (LU)        SE          5,000          10,000
14. Owerri (trunks)          SE          1,390           2,000
15. Makurdi Local (LU)       NE          4,800          10,000
16. Makurdi (trunks)         NE                          1,200
17. Gboko Local (LU)         NE          1,000           5,000
18. Oturkpo Local (LU)       NE            500           5,000
19. Zaria Local (LU)         NV          4,200          10,000
20. Zaria (trunks)           NW                          1,000



-43-
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 3
3. LOCAL CAULZ NETUK
Locations                                     Now ErDr Pairs
lequired
1. Lagos C                                            42,000
2. Lagos 5                                            42,000
3. Iponri A                                           45,000
4. Apapa                                              10,000
S. Isolo (Zjigbo)                                      6,000
6. Victoria Island                                     6, 00
7. Zaria                                               2,400
8. Ilorin                                              7,500
9. Enugu                                              18,000
10. Onitmlia                                           18,000
11. Aba                                                12,000
12. Port Harcouri                                      12,000
13. Nnevi                                              10,000
14. Owerri                                              8,000
15. Makurdi                                             6,750
C. Transmission
1. Lagos Area Optical fibre junction network.
2. Kaduna - Kano digital microwave radio.
3. Kaduna - Be i - Ilorin - Ibadan - Ijebu-Ode - Ikorodu
digital mic ovave radio.
4. Benin - Onitsha - Enugu digital microwave ra4io.
5. Enugu - Umuahia - Aba - Port Harcourt digital microwave radio.
5. Euugu - Makurdi digital microwave radio.
6. Port Harcourt - Warri - Benin digital microwave radio.
D.  Space Comunication
Rehabilitation of STD A earth station at Lanlate
F. Telephone and Payphones
Procurement of 50000 telephones and 8,000 pay phones.
G.  Vehicles
Procurement of 300 vehicles.
B. Telex/Gentex
Establishment of a teleprinter repair center and telex module repair
center.



-44- 
Annex  -
,            ~~~Page 3 of 3
Total       Initial
I.  Consultancy to be financed by the Denk         Ma-ribhs      Contract
1. P"1 Consultants                               50            S0
2. Project Manag _nt- Tranminssion  -2           96            48
Switching     -2         96            48
ILP           -2         96            48
3. Planning            -Transmission  -1         24            -
Switching     -1         24
4. Traffic             -Traffic        -1        24            24
Administration
5. Financial Managemant                 3        546
Total                        464           254
J.     Training
(i)    Fellowships
Management      High Level
15 staff/4 months                    60
Engineers       Traunsmission 2014 months            s0
switching    2014 months             80
Ppver        2014 months             80
ELP          2014 months             60
Technicians    Transmission 5014 months             200
Switching    50/4 months           200
Power        50/4 months            200
XLP          5014 months            200
Finance                      50/6 manmonths         300
Supplies                     20/6 manmonths         120
365                  1,600 manmonths
(it)   Instructors
24 manmonths for setting up courses in data and digital
technology at the Oshodi training Centre.
K.     Buildings
Construction of buildings to accomod4te equipment and for
residential pu!rposss.
L.     Ancillary EcquiDment
Ancillary euipment including software for management
information system.



-45-
Annez 3-3
Page 1 of 12
PnDhR*L RIPIMLIC OF WIGRIA
VNIOERI"N TZSCCO1UIICATIONS LIMITED (NITEL)
FIRS? TL CCOHMICATIONS PROJECT
TeDn of Reference for Comsultancy Servicel
I   CONSULTANCY SERVICES FINANCED NDR PP
1.        Tslecomnznications consultancy firma were employed under PPF
.financing to undertake the following three tasks:
A. TASK 1: ENGINEERING ASSISTANCZ
Objective: To carry out diagnostic assessment of the performance of Lagos
Network, recomend equipment requirements and as ist NITEL in the
implementation of the Lagos Rehabilitaition work under World Bank Project.
ELEME NS
1.   In collaboration with local task force carry out a
technical and traffic audit of Lagos Network including
equipment validation and traffic measurements on all
junction groups and common control equipment.
2.   Recommend rearrangements and additions to circuitit
groups as a result of (1).
3.   Recommend suitability of Lagos junction cable Network
for PCM Transmission including suitability of existing 
manholes for PCM repeater installatioi.
4.   Produce a junction traffic and circuit matrix for                             I
Lagos Network present, 2 year and 5 year requirements.
5.   Document the forecasting methodology employed for (4)
and the iecomended trunking chan!e applicable at the
2 year and 5 year dates.
6.   To prepare technical specifications and general bid
doouments for goods and services to be procured under
this project.        i
7.   To assist in bid evaluation and preparation of
r!comendations for NITEL and Bank approf a.
8.   To assist in drawing up contracts with successful,
bidders.
9.   To assist in supervision of implementat4on of works
and periodic inspection.
10.   To assist in acceptance testing and on site and
comissioning of equipment financed under the project.
INPUT     Three Consultants working with counterparts for up,to
10 manmonths over a period of up to 4 manmonths.
OUTPUT    Design, plan and bid documentation necessary to invite
tenders for th. required works.



-46-                             '
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 12
S. TASK 2. rV  F o           S3TI9 2MST US
Obcctivj:  To review the 196-1991 ilvstuet progrm prepared by NITEL
and sot out 1ig-tern networkt develqmet strateg  a:plas.
U      E~LDENITS
1.   Review the program In light of Nigeria's 4evelo     t
objective  for the year 1992 and long-term objectives
to the year 2,000.
2.   Analyze the balance between rehabilitation and
expansion.
i       Review financall and manpower requiremstU for the
program in the context of NITCL's financial position
presented and projected in close collaboration with
financial consultants to be appoainted by NITCL.
4.  Review unit costs for material and labor used in
determining total local *pd forsign costs.
5.  Review NITEL's Implementation capkcity of the program
and reconnd appropriate strategy for niplemntatiots.
6.  Review technical feasibility of program In light of
digitalization and Introduction of new services.
7. Prepare standar4 specifications for Switching,
transmission and local network In line with the
digitalixation policy and strategy.
S. 8   tablish demad projection for various NITCL services
over 5 and 10 year periods according to available
de*ographic and economic data.
9.  Maio projections of traffic and circuit requirements
for 5 and 10 years.
10.  Zstablish series of #ypotheses for d*cting this demand
and indicate potential use of computer programing.
11.  Review the network digitalization policy and strategy
prepared by NITTL and recommend appropriate
amndmnts.
12.  Develop fumdan.ntal plans for signallfting, numbering,i
routing, transaission, and synchronization consistent
with the digitalization strategy.
13.   Develop plans for witching, transxissioi  and local
network needs of tb"  1987-1992 developent program
includ ng network ootinization.
INPUT     tour Consultants (Engineers and Econoaists as
appropriate) for a period of six oaths (24 manmmnths)
vorking with counterparts.
OUTPUT  :s Report On inventenet program t  1992, fundamental
plans to year 2,000 plus methodologies to employ,
;         including potential uses of computer programs.



-47-
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 12
OUTPUT 2  In addition and on the assumption that positive
recomendations are mde on the potential use of
computer programming, element 10, bidders are also
requested to present optional proposals for thi
development of a series of a computerixed network
planning programs. NITUL will determine whether or
not and when to exercise this option at the time of
evaluation of proposals.
C. TASK 3: FINANCIAL MAXAGHMENT (NON-INGINREEIMG)
Objective: Preparation of fundamental financial data for loan application
and selected review of financial systemu with emphasis on billing and
collection.
ELEMENTS
1.   Preparation of Memorandum internal accounts (including
Balance Sheets, Profit and Loss Accounts and source
and application of funds statements) on an Approximate
Basis for calendar years 1985 and 1986.
2.   Financial Evaluation of current and medium term
NITEL's investment program, including the financing
plan giving due consideratiQn to findings of technical
consultants to be appointed 'by NITEL.
3.   Preparation of a financial presentation document in
support of the Government's application for a first
World Bank Nigerian Telecoms Project (including issues
such as ihe financial implications of stated policies
on Tariffs, Capital Restructuring.  Medium-term
investment programs and debt service implications).
4.   Review of existing systems (and related consultant
proposals) traffic billing, collection and receivable
management.
5.   Recommendation of short-term improvements and
assistance with implementation of priority tasks in
traffic billing and receivables management.
6.   Formulation of recoamendations for medium-term
improvemnt to management accounting, financial
control and related Data Processing Systems.
INPUTs    Three Consultants (as appropriate) for up to 12
manmonths in total with counterparts. Accesb to
Historical Financial Statements for NET and PfT prior
to 1965, and for NITEL as of 1985.
OUTPUTs   Memorandum accounts for years 1985 and 1986 with
sxpporting commentary, financial presentation document
and report giving full analysis and detailed plan of
actions for billing, collection and receivables
manageaent.



-48-
Anne- 3-3
Page 4 of 12
II. COISULTANCY SEVICES TO 33 WINAMCZD DRING TSE PROJECT
TASK As Protect 'anms nt, Network Plaring and Traffic Management
Ob1ectives
1.        The Nigerian S lecoinanications Limited (NITL) is executing a
1990-1994 inveetupit progrm of rehabilitation and expansion of
telecoiunicatilns facilities and inastitutionil development of NITEL. The
progrm is being financed by IBED and bilateral and other sources. The
broad tasks for which the Project Planning, Engineering and Management
Consultants are proposed to be emloyed to assist NITEL in implementation               \
of this progrm are as follows:
(a) assist NITEL's staff to carry out design, detailed
engineering, procurement, supervision of installation,
acceptance testing and commissioning of all eq4ipment
items (switching and transilssion equipment, outside
plant network and subscriber facilities) and civil
workst coordination of implementation of different program
components; and in general project management including
supervision of contracts and coordination of project
implementation;
(b) provide suitably skilled perionnel to work with
Nigerians as counterparts in undertaking the following
tasks:
-    development of detailed netwqrk plans for
implementing the first tqlecommunications
development project; and
-    set up traffic engineering group in NITEL.
(c) transfer know-how to NITEL staff in planning, design,
techno-economic evaluation, engineering and project
management for all program components through direct
class tiaining andlor on the job training, etc.
Scope of Services
2.        The scope of services to,be provided by the consultants in
conjunction with NITEL's counterpart are grouped as follows:
(a) design and detailed network system engineering;
(b)  procurement;
(c) supervision of installation, acceptance tests and
conissioningi
     (d)  transfer of know-how and training; and
te) project management.
Thc above services are to be coordinated by NITEL.
\
\



Annez S-3
Pase 5 of 12
Detailed Rhuinserin
S.    eThe consultants shall guide NITL staff to prepare detailed
eqipmet desig  and detaiUe  engineering to achieve:
(a)  the least-cost solution appropriate to the c _ment;
(b)  effective Integration with existing facilitiest
(c)  satisfactory grad* of service; and
(d)  adherence to appropriate CCITTICCUX rec_amdationa.
4..       The consultants In conjunction with IIThL will be required tot
undertake full field/site surveys and test measurements or mke spot checks
to verify data and minimize implementation risks due to deficient basic
data.
Procurement
5.        The consultants shall prepare all the required tender documents
including comercial conditions, technical specifications, schedules of
requirements and delivery, draft contract) for procurement of all equipment
items and for civil works, through international/local competitive bidding
for neiq items or sole source repeat orderl for extensions to existing
equipment.
6.        The consultants' role in the procurement cycle shall include,
ibut not be limited to the followings
(a)  joint preparation of tender documunts. The documnts
shall include the procedure for repeat orders, if the
long-term development program includes such
recosuendation, and the formala for future pricing of
such repeat orders that takes into account inflation,
technology advances, induced economies in
sanufacturing costs, and international market
situation at time of orderinS;
(b)  assist NITEL i  answering bidders' queries an tender
documnts and participate in bidders' conforences,
when scheduled, for complicated cases;
(c)  joint evaluation of bids, and preparation of technical                         |
and financial evaluation reports with recomnedations
on contract award;
(d)  after, NTZL managemnt's decision on selection of the
contractor, drafting contract and assisting in contract
negot^iations and award;
(e)  prepare amendments/addenda to contracts as may become
necessary during program implementation; and
(f) tasks (a) and (e) shall primrily be carried out by
NITEL's staff under supervision and guidance by the
consultants.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~



-50-
Annez 3-3
Pag 6 of 12
Installation, Acceptance Testing and Co issionins
7.        The consultants shall provide detailed support and actively
assist NITIL in adabinstration of NITuL's contracts for equipment supplies
and civil works, through:
(a) review and approval of all contractor's submission in
respect of engineering designs, plans and schedules;
lists of main equipqent, installation and maintenance
test equipment, tools an4 spare parts; installation
and acceptance test procedures, etc.;
(b) monitoring of delivery and installationiconstruction
schedules;-
(c) undertaking factory testing when called for;
(d) checking types and quantities of equipment, materials,
documentation, software, etc. supplied by contractors
to ensure conformation to contractss
(e)  coordination in implementation of different program
components and resolution of problems that may arise
in interaction between contractors of different
components;
if) supervision of equipment installations and civil works
construction per contracts to ensure quality and
completqness;
(g) prepagatiion of schedules, and conductance of
acceptance tests;
(h) commissioning of equipment; and
Ii)  assist NITEL in resolution with the equipment
contrtctors of problems that arise in the commissioned
equipment during the warranty period.
Transfer of Know-how and TraininA
8.        An essential item of the consultaiits' tot&l assignment shall be
the upgrading and development of NITEL's human resources through transfer
of know-how and training of NITEL's staff in all aspects of th. vork
undertaken by the consultants in Nigeria. The transfer of know-how and
training of NITEL's staff shall cover but not be limited to techniques and
methods of planning, design aed detailed engineering; technical and
economic evaluati4n of different alternatives; preparation of technical
specifications; procurement documentation and procedures; installation,
acceptance tests \and conuissioning of equipment; general project
management, etc., and shall include mode of updating these technologies and
methods.
9.        The consultants shall prepare a detailed plan for. transfer of
know-how and training which is a major task of their assignment. The
transfer of know-how can be through training courses to be conducted in
NITEL's tr ining school and/or through on-the-job training. The training
plan should be designed with the objective that, on co pletion of the
consultants' assignmnt, the NITEL staff shall have developed inherent



Annex 3-3
Page 7 of 12
capability of implementing independently a significant proportion of
NIUL's future develop ent program _ it-fiout substantial further external
technical assistance.
10.       The consultants shall review the availability of RITEL's staff
to act as counterparts, specify the required qualifications for each such
staff, *asist NIT6L in selecting such staff from within NITEL or through
outside recruitment and, if necessary. recoonend foreign training of NITEL
staff in specific disciplines.
Proiect Management
11.       NITEL shall provide the organization, staff and infrastructure
necessary for management of the total scope of work as detailed above. It
shall establish and maintain necessary project files and records (including
records of all expenditures).
12.       The consultants shall appoint a team leader who will assume
overall responsibility for the total assignment and liaison with NITEL for
all activities and performance of other consultants' personnel and
settlement of all accounts in Nigeria.
13.       The consultants shall prepare and submit to NITEL'within five
days at the end of each month, a composite and detailed report on .ach task
preceded by an Executive Summary for the information of the senior NITEL's
management.
Network Planning
14.       Using the demand data, fundamental plans and digitalization
policy articulated in the master plan study, develop detailed plans for
switching, transmission and local network needs of the 1990-1994
development program.
15.       Prepare a planning manual (engineering instructions) containing
rules and procedures for rational development of the network.
16.       Review the engineering planning organization of NITEL including
staffing and propose suitable changes.
17.       Identify training needs for plEnning staff in light of
digitalization.
18.       Propose suitable courses for planning staff.
Traffic Administration
19.       Propose a suitable org&iization for a traffic planning and
monitoring group in NITEL.



-52-
Annex 3-3
Page a of 12
20.       Draw up systems for monitoring traffic flow for local, national
and internat4onal traffic, including a suitable management informatio
*ystem.
21.       Prepare technical specifications and recommend list of test
equipment for measuring traffic.
22.       Identify training needs for traffic engineering personnel and
recomind suitable courses of study.
23.       Prepare qnd conduct initial courses in traffic engineering for:
(a)  exchange supervisory staff with emphasis oi practical
application of traffic measuremnt, monitoring and
analysis in maintaining quality of service;
(b)  managerial staff to be given a better understanding of
the network and the importance of traffic engineering
in its planning, design and operations.
Experts Requirements
.24.      It is estiated that the following expertise will be required
during the implementation of the project:
(a) Switching Expert;
(b)  Transmission Expert;
(c)  External Plant Expert;
(d)  Traffic Administration Expert.
dhe duration for each expert or experts will be different, but the
eipertise will be required for about four years.
TASK B: Financial ManaRement
Background
1.        NITEL was established as of January 1, 1985 as a limited
liability company under the 1968 Company Decree. NITEL was specifically to
undertake the business of telecommunications, both external and internal to
Nigeria. The company is 1001 owned by the Government. However, since
inception there has been a considerable lack of adequately trained manpower
in the company's Finance Division. This situation, thereforF, has resulted\
in serious delay in the efforts of the Division to keep and'maintain proper
and adequate up-to-date accounting and management accounts information
records.
2.        In order to improve its financial management and to eiazble NITEL
to operate on a coimercial basis, financial consultants were employed under
the Wbrld Bank Project Prtparation Facillty (PPF) advance to carry out



--53 -
Annex 3-S
Page 9 of 12
diagaostic analysis of NITIL's financial and accounting policies,
procedures and systems, and propose an action plan for improvement. The
major findings of the consultants were as followsX
(i) significant short cosings and delays in accounts recording and
processing in most functional areas;
(ii) lack of meaningful management accounts. There are
delays in finalization of financial accounts and
audited accounts have had nuierous qualifications;
(iii) absence of effective financial management and control of working
capital;
(iv) technical and operating difficulties resulting in
problems in billing and collection for the services
rendered; and
(v) adequately trained accounting and finance staff to carryout the
financial function in NIEL.
3.   The basic approach to implementation of improvements recommended by
the consultants will involve the following taskes 
i). prepare detailed manuals setting out the step by step
description of the tasks to be carried out by each level of
staff in accomplishing the objectives of the revised systems and
ensure the implementationg
(ii) develop training programs for each staff level in the
aspects of the procedures and systems relevant to each
financial staff and carry out the necessary training;
(iii) assist the special teams and task forces setup at NITEL to carry
out any investigation or exercise to bring arrears of processing
of all records up-to-date. This will particularly apply to the
accounting records at headquarters, zones and territories, fixed
assets register*, consolidation of territorial records and
dthers;
(iv) develop and implement financial and accounting systems
at headquarters, zones and territory closely with
NITEL staffs;
(v} monitor the performance of the staff in the operation of the
systems and make necessary improvements; and
(vi) assist the deputy directors in the finance department
at NITEL to manage their functions and any other tasks
they would require to be carried out.
4.        NITEL, since the Consultants Reports, has reviewed some
accounting systems, billing and collection procedures and these are working
effeciently.  Also t4e backlog of accounts preparation has been cleared and
the existing staff tve updated processing and recording of cArrent
transactions with the effect that the audit of both 1987 and 1988 fiscal
years are now at the final stage. ', The situation of a permanent backlog
has therefore b     eliinated.



- 54 -
Amnex 3-3
Page 10 of 12
5.        A tern of financial experts will be required for a period of one
year with the possibility of a six sioths extension to assist Task Force to
Implement Ithe reilndations of the Task group, to  mprove the financial
ad accmting policies, procedures and syst_n that may require
mpro-t.  Oe ezpert will be the te_ leader and will be responsible
for coordinating the work of the tern and ensure that the tasks are carried
out effectively. The tern will consists of three experts. Each expert
will be attached to the three deputy directors in the Finance Department in
the headquarters. Impl4entation of systems and procedures will be carried
out with WIT L counterparts staff from the headquarter, zones and
territories. In addition, each expert,will also be required to undertake
any other tasks that the deputy directbrs they are assigned to requests.
6.        The current organization chart of the Finance Department, which
isUbased an the recorendations of the PPF financed consultants, is
attached as Annex 1. The Finance Department consists of three
subdirectorates, Financi al Accounts, Management Accounts, and Treasury and
Traffic. NITZL has its national headquarter in Lagos, five zonal
headquarters and 22 territorial offices.  Each of these territorial offices
Is self accounting.  In addition,' each territotial office controls several
district offices where sonw limited accounting functions take place.
7.        The assignuents will include a requireaent to field train
NITEL's counterpart staff and assigned officers in the expert's activities
to the maximu extent possible while performing the tasks.
S.        The specific tasks and the responsib4lities associated with the
three experts and their qualifications are set out below.
Expert 1s Treasury and Traffic Accountant
Scope of Work
S.        The expert who should report to Deputy Director of Treasury and
Traffic will lead a group of NITEL staff in implementation of the
recoendations of the consultants and those of the Task Force after
approval by the Deputy Director Treasury and Traffic and in particular in:
-    billing and collection, review the efficiency of the
newly Installed system.
-    accounts receivables/aging analysis.
-    monitoring the incoming and outgoing transaction.
-    monitoring of inpayment and outpayment ratios.
-    cash nanagement, including cash Olow projections.
-    foreign exchange mnagemnt.
-    credit control
-    ensure compliance with policy already developed. Review
weakness and update policy.
-    prepare appropriate mothly/quarterly management
lnformation required as appropriate for NITZL
mtanageent in the related financial functions.



- 55 -
Annex 3-3
Page 11 of 12
9.        A qualified accountant with over five yoars experience as a
cnm rcial mlnager in a telecosumications eatity and relevant work
experience La a developing country. The assi nt is expected to start in
August 1990 and be for a period of about 12 months   As the position
requires an unusual amount of tis and resources for staff development and
training, candidates with a track record andlor capacities in these areas
would be preferred.
Ezpert 2 - Financial Accountant
Scope of Work
10.       The expert will assist the Deputy Director of Financial
Accounts in the implementation of the recoendations of the consultants
and those of the Task Force after approval of Deputy Director Financial
Accounts and in particulart
-    prepare of headquarter accounts;
3    development of a costing system to deterdine traffic
costs.
-    payroll;
-    staff loans and pension; and
prepare appropriate regular management information
report as related to fidancial functions.
Reqgirements
11.       A qualified accountant with over five years experience as a
chief accountant and relevant work experience in a developing country. The
assignment is expected to start in August 1990 and be for a period of about
12 months. As the position requires an unusual amount of tine and
resources for staff development and training, candidates with a track
record andlor capacities in these *reas would be preferred.
Expert 3 - Management Accountant
Scope,of Work
12.       The expert who should report to the Deputy Director of
Management Accounts will lead a group of NITIL staff in the implementation
of the recomendations of the consultants/Task Force after the approval of
the Deputy Director Management Accounts and in particulars
-    prepare consolidated of Group accounts for NITEL.
-    review financial accounting recording procedure.
-    project accounts.
-    prepare financial projection model with full capacity
for sensitivity analysis to test financial objectives.
-    prepare uonthly and annual operational and development
budget.
-    monitor actual versus budget estimates.,



- 56 -
Annex 3-3
Page 12 of 12
-    prpare appropriate regular  anagemsent inforeation
rporets related to finascial functions.
13.       A qualified accountant with orvr ton years experience as
monagnent accountant and relevant work experience in a developing country.
The assigmnt Is expected to start in August 1990 and be for a period of
about 12 month. As th  position requires an unusual amount of time and
resources for staff development and training, candidates with a trAck
record and/or capacities in these areas would be preferred.
! N 



- 57 -
AN=EX 3-4
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUILIC OF NIGERIA
NIGRI N TZL2KC"MNICATIONS LIITSED (NITUL)
FIRST TELECOWfICATION8 PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
______________________
---------  TOTAL  ---------         ---------  TOTAL  ---------
(Naira Kill)                        (US$ Hill)
Local   Foreign   Total             Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                       2,178.5  2,178.5                       225.0    225.0
-THER SOURCES              1,063.1  1,063.1                        110.0    110.0
NITEL             1,092.4    370.3  1,462.7              112.6      35.9    148.5
Project Financing  1,092.4  3,611.9  4,704.3              112.6    370.9    483.5



L                                                      - 58
_ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ M    s4 
Mm"X 1-4
Pe" 2 of 2
NIiamE   1 UM OMWUCATUWS EIUU1ED (ITEL)
FIRST TELECOISUMICAT011 PROJEeCT
Projoet Flmeinme by It_m.
-------   FrlF    Co         -             - Loe  l -   -      Total -
uS millo. Equl vs                - - - l-------
By Ites                     UID   OTHERS   NITEL   TeO l                  WITh.
- Switching Exchnge
-pExpe o                       60.4    $1.6              112.2              6.9             119.1
"- - R.hbiltatlon                 6.1                        5.1              0.1               5.2
- Extrnal Lim Plant (ELP)
- Expansion                      60.0    53.S             1n.6              1S.9             152.7
- RhabillItation                 a?.8                       37.8              4.2              41.6
Transistsion
- Expanlon                        6.3      4.4              11.2              1.8              12.6
-Rehabilitation                   1.4                        1.4              0.2               1.5
- Spao Comunication                  8.5                        8.5              0.0               3.5
- Telephne                          10.4                       10.4              0.1              10.S
- Suding                                                        0.0             81.3              81.3
- Rohabtitati on of Poer A A/C       1.4                        1.4              0.2               1.6
- Vehicl                        '   2.3                         2.8              3.6              659
- Training (Equipment and            7.0                        7.0              0.1               7.1
F llowehtpe)
Conoultacy                        6.2                        8.2              0.6               6.8
-   isc. and AncilIIary Eqpt.        1.1                        1.1              0.0               1.2
- Custoas Duties                                                0.0             45.8              45.3
- Interet During Construction                         8.09    85.9               0.0              85.9
Total Project Financing         225.0   110.0    85.9 S70.9                  112.6            483.5



Annex 8-5
MlAlWUC C iMIA|
*bhedul  t Il&r   _
mlIIIl")
330b                                 CumsIet1v w          m&s Pr.tIlm
PY/Smeter             Dl mbere.m  t     Thregh        for all sectors  TeIeom Sector
EndIng             .In Semeso r       Semester      la West ALe.c   World Wide
FY60
MRe0 go, im                0.i I/          0.1  / 
FY60
6P. I,im0 
Ju 8ne  1066o              0.2            o0-t              --
FY9
.iwEe 80, 19060                1            . t    
M. 81, 1969                0.0             0.7              -
Jun. 80, 1000              0.0             0.7              -
FY91
O;F $I, 1900              10.0             10.7             2.4             2.4
June 80, 1001               .8            20.0             10.7             6.1
FY92
Fe-: 81, 1001             20.0            40.0             24.9            16.4
Jun. 80, 1002             58.0            78.0             40.8            80.6
FY98
ec. *1, 100               48.0            126.0            69.2            49.7
Jun. 80, 1990             40.0            166.0            79.8            70.9
FY94
9e. S1, 1008              0.5             192.5             0.09           94.7
June 80, 1994             15.0           207.5            119.6           119.6
FY06
D   8. 1, 1994            12.0           219.5            188.4           138.4
June $0, 1990              5.5           225.0            157.5           165.4
FY96
;: 81, 1006                -               -              178.9           178.9
Jun 80, 19906              -               -              166.5           189.6
FY97
De. 81, 1006               -                -             100.6           200.1
June 80, 1990              -               -              201.7           210.6
FY90
Dc. 81, 1096               -                -             211.2           214.0
Jun. 80, 1999              -               -              228.2           222.6
FY00
De $1, 1900                -                -             225.0           225.0
3/FInanod througI PMF1



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - - - -- W                                                                 .    - -  - - ... ... *..
FEDERAL REPULIC OF NIGERIA
--   NIGEIAN TELECCIICATIma! LIMITED (NiliL
FIRST TELEC.UMICiAIWNS PROJECTF
Iu.leme itatlon Schedul
Cale_r Y.r            1i9                1990             1091              1992             39                104
lbxrtwr              12  a  4          1  2  a           1  2  s  4      1 2  a  4         1  2  *           I  2*
1. CeeS te                                      o.....LI.j 1          3        __  _____
5. traitnIn           --                                                                    -                                       'I
C. Swlch1n                                        .    l                    o  -ll--0-
D. Ezteral Ltin  Plant               _-l                                        D  -I---          1- 
E. L     b3stnce                                                   -l-----  -- -  _I -D
Troaneisilon
F. IeeCeinm.ition                                .                                 -       -  0-  .-    -
0. Power and Aircondltloning                           -I              0   1-                -  -
H. Telephone                                                               1-                           _
S. 5l.dinge               1_                             I-_ _
J. Vehicle s-                                                          -
LE6W:         . Tender amnouncemeet or call for quetation.
I Contract Award
O Delivery In Nipria
Intlletion 
* End of Instal lotion or Assignment



FEDERAL REPIUEC OF NIGERIA
NIGEIA TELECOWA34ICATIUMS LIMITED(MT)
FIRST TELECAMRIICATIUNS PROJECT
Action Plan for Consultanci Serices
Ca ll for          S.lo.tion of        Commencement                            IUplemeawstaft
Took                       Propesale           Consultont            of Work        Flnal Report          of R.esmswdwtion
i  lopo .t Plan.        Msrch 19#7         Notvkr 1967         may 1966         November 1966          J". 1996
Lagos Network Audit     March 1937         NoVember 19#7       May 19           November 1966          June 199
Financial Systems       March 1967         Novmber 1967        May 196          January 1#9            J. 1960
2. Project Ma      $at,
Planning a Traff ic     April 1990         October 1960        Deceber 1960   Quartely Reports         Througheet the Project
Adinistration
S. Financial Managommt    April 1990           October 1990       Decetmr 1990    Quarterly Report         Threouheet the Prop,"ct
.                                        -                              _           _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FEDERAL REPULC OF NIGERIA
NI
FIRST TULACUICATIUN5 PRDg.T
Ovet 1I ProlO.e MaIaassbn Oroanlzatlon Chart
*MANADING tItECTORt
* SUO~
*                                           - ~p- 
DIRECTo               C          OCT          DC                 DC                           *
FA                K m                                                                        S D  COOE AMAI    *  d
LIZ                                                      -. .m..s
* E x *      St*S"
*                     5 *  *                                                                  5N       Olt>O       E***I^ 
*S         *  *              *                                         IIN                   l
_    *               _                                                                S"    _S  
E      | ExSl                                                           S     S       S       S
*              S
*         * Modiflied Structure tor Projet Implementatlon
SSSSSSSSSSSS                                                                                             Ii



FEDEIIA IqC OF NIMIA
NLIT TUUMICATIUM u 
Phatcal ProJoct kunaum.ot Oonlizatlon Chart
.j 1W ZE                             *ROJECT                         ENE            ZONE S                        Z
tl"L ~ZONAL IUN *.                          REOt *ZONAL MAA1                      ZOIU1 11            ZONAL MA#A
_                    .   _                                  ..
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:
*
~.*                   .                                                   
*                  eS                                                           *                  e
*                  *                                              .             *                  S
*                  *                                      *                     S                  S
*  |                                                            I                SWO E              S E  
t PUM/I LElMl 
um  w zm                          m Zoe               Im ZDNE~~~~~~~~~~~
mm/nna              PLAPAWUW             MM/imM              PLAN/nmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@



- 64 -
Pes1 of 8
FRAL  rVIUC WP NII
FrMS TELEC05IICATION5 PIOJCT
lw    190    19K n L > n       uo        1
I; 
1.  Teleh. lhGo Capacity:                   -    -                    -    -    -
-Lgoso;                            115,000 115,000 15,000 1,000 185,000 28,000
-brth Wt                            68,620  09,620  150,6   150,M   150,620  15,420
North Eas                           2,250  2,20  28,250  28,250  25,250  41,960
-South Wst                          "0,60o  99,880  99,860   W0,540  "0,860  99,860
-South East                         82,100  82,100  90,100  90,100  90,100 146,600
Tote al                            84, 80 414,880    8,880 50,880 508,880 677,8$0
2.   Dtret Exchags Ltrn  Year-end:
-Lagoa 0,100  90,100 108,100 112,100 110,100 140,100
-North Wet                          42,140  48,500  62,140  88,700  96,500  106,000
-North EDt                          20,210  21,750  22,250  22,7M0  28,250  25,750
-So0th ot                           68,6o0  68,3oo  78,360  78,86O  38,36    68,80O
-South East                         55,00  60,00  64,300  66,300  70,000  60,300
Tots I                             275,150 209,010 820,160 866,210 894,510 488,610
8.   Exchange Fill (I 
ULN                                     6ix      on      7S       X       On    '
-North W..t                             61:      54X     41X      56X      64X     695
-North East                             72X      77X     79X      S1#      62X    6O1
-South West                             64X    6SX       74X      705      841     34X
-South E..                             6OJ       74S     72X      76s    7?9X       S5
Total                                   705      72X     65X      78X      781    O6X
4.   Number of sW Circuits (Lgops)         6,160   6,160   3,160   3,160   3,160   3,160
5.   Copcity of Iatornatioal Tolphoe1        980    900   8,80   $,80   8,0   8,$80
6.   Telex Exchage Capacity:
-Lago                                4,900   6,864   6,864   6,564   6,864   6,84
-North west                          2,450   8,460   $,450  ' 8,450   8,460   8,450
-North East                           9060      050     95       960     9C0      060
-South W.kt                          2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
-South East                          2,W0   2,800   2,80    2,800   2,80    2,800
Total                               12,300  15,264  15,264  15,264  15,264  15,264
7.   Telex Subscriber LUm  Year-end:
-Lags.                            .4,020   4,470   4,700   4,900   5,060   5,170
-North West                            7C       9060   1,1U0    1,80   1,660   1,*0
-North East                            285      880     860      80       480     480
-South Wet                             6o       770      25      30       900   1,110
-South East                            690      *10     360      920   1,040   1,150
Total                                6,890   ?,840   7,95   6 ,480   9,160   9,780
S.   Exchange Fill (I)
-Lagos                                  sx2    705       75       77X      75x    31i
-North West                             810      29S     8451    189       4J%     585
-North East                             8O       855     88       40S      45S     51%
-South West                             805    8us       885      40X      45X     505
-South East                             8X       85X     8751    405       455     50X
TOtl 05                                         480     52%      so5      60%     645



-65-
,                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1 (iWO   t   1    l    1
9.   Averag NAmber of FaultsfEL per Year
-Natl.e.i                                 1.7      1.5      1.8      1.1       1.0      1.0
-La.                    j0.5                       0.5      0.5      0.1      0.2       0.2
10.  X of Foult. Cleared (Natleel)
Within 24 Hor
-WIbtim 48 Hors                                                                  N   7  7
-Withis 7 Days                                                        Sam      on        US
Within s0 Days                                       so      10s      U5   1 005        100
11.  Dal Ten  - X Within S
-Natooal                                   505      S01x     so1       S       10015    1005  
-Up*                                       sox      *OX      so       on       10,0N    1005
12.  Call Coepletlon Rates
-Interatenoel - Outgoing                   so       490      45       so       50        5o
-Iteratlonal - Incoming                    20X      405      4tX      so        s0o      so
-National (S1D)                           21 3OX             405      soI      605       s
-Local - National                          805      so       605o    6o        70        7
-Local - La.                               8o                         60       705       ?OX
13.  Average Operor Answrtng Time
S Within 10 Seos
-International                             20       40      60        70       90        90
-In land                                   20       40       60       70       90        90
14.  Tel.com Staff/1000 DEL.                     6O       sO       Is       SO       50        50
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 66 -
AM=
Pegs 8 .f 8
1M      am       im       low      19m      1904
16.  op rstng Rb enuelDEL
e,-                                                                   6,705~ - 
Cons15.t (" Prio )                   C,002 0Re91   C,7 #         ,567   6,817,   ,70
Current                              c,on    C,741   9,88r   9,082  10,510  12,27
16.  Telehone Revenue/DEL
Constant ('69 Pries)                 8,629   5,678       4U    5,8    5,0l2    5,590
Current                              $,29   7,002   7,589   *,00    3,089   10,241
17.  T*l-x R v nuo/Suboerib n
ConsRvnt (u9 Prircu)                17,018   2,907  23,285   24,025   28,200  28,770
Current                             17,018  84,904   86,078   87,140   8,590  48,502
13.  Cash Operatilng Cost;DEL
Constnt ('69 Prlces)                 1,520    1,50    1,474    1,405    1,U67    1,89?
Current                              1,520   1,915   2,027   2,125   2,807   2,657
19.  Op.ratlng Ratio() M                       89       81x      so        So   85       84U
20.  Net Internal Cash GCneration (X)         102X    111X       90       s1X     7SS    179X
21.  Rate of Reurn on Lv. NFA (Revalued)        7X      18o      18X      14X      186     101
22.,  Accounta Roceivables (Days BliIng)      15O      120      110       90      75       60
28.  Current Ratio (Times)                    1.0      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.2     2.9
24.  Debt/(D*bt.Equity) Ratto                  87X      us       l9o     40X      48X      s9X
25.  Debt Service Covorage                    2.6      4.2      2.0      8.0      8.5     4.1



- 67 -
ANNEX! 4-1
Page 1 of 2
FEDUAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGEIANW TELBCOIMUNICATIONS LDIITED (NITEL)
FIRST SCLICOMHUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historical Incoe Stat _ nt
(Naira Millions)
Revenuel                            1985      1986     1987      1988
Billed Revenue_1/                  268.6    254.0    336.1    644.5
Others                              14.9       6.9     70.2      32.4
Gross Operating Revenue            283.5    260.9    406.3    676.9
Net Outpayments                     21.3      37.6    181.4    143.9
Net Revenue                        262.2    223.3    224.9    533.0
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages                   112.0    107.0    115.1    136.1
Other Operating_2/                 210.5    191.6      74.4      72.4
Bad Debt Provision                  67.3      14.7     51.3      10.9
Depreciation 3/                     35.0      26.8     30.3      15.0
Total Operating Expenses           424.8    340.1    271.1    234.4
Net Operating Income(Loss)         (162.6)  (116.8)   (46.2)   298.6
Lesst Interest on Loans _41         82.5      37.6      2.0       2.1
Net Income(Loss) Before Tax        (245.1)  (154.4)   (48.2)   296.5
Tax-5/                               0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Net Profit (Loss)                  (245.1)  (154.4)   (48.2)   296.5
t/  Includes inpayments from foreign administrations for incoming
international calls.
'2/ 1985 figure includes bad debt write off of Naira 44.2 million
pre-NITEL.
3/  Depreciation charges are low because some assets which are in service
ari# yet to be transferred from work in progress to fixed assets.
4/  Interest charges are on cash basis.  Interest charges in 1987 and
1988 lower than in 13986 because unpaid interest charges are not
reflected.
5,1 Losses can be carried over for three years.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN TZLZCASWNICATIONS LIMITE  (NITEL)
FIRST TZLZCOHOUNICATION$ PROJECT
Historical Balance Sheets
(Naira Mllion)
ASSSTS                                   1985      1986     1987     1988
Gross Fixed Assets                      273.4    287.4    301.8    411.0
Accumulted Depreciation                 79.3    105.9    136.2    151.2
Total Fixed Assets                      194.1    181.5    165.6    259.8
Work in Progress ii                   2,498.3  2,530.6  2,679.8  3,006.0
Investments                              28.1     29.7      27.8     48.4
Current Assetss
-Cash and Bank Deposits                229.7    272.8    249.4  1,054.6
-Subsqriber Accounts Receivable 21    179.6    175.7    201.0    272.0
-Other Receivables                      40.0    105.2    133.3    156.5
-,Inventory                             45.2     48.7      49.6     52.4
Total Current Assets                    494.5    602.4    633.3  1,535.5
TOTAL ASSETS                          3,215.0  3,344.2  3,506.5  4,849.7
LIABILITIES
Equity                                1,760.k  1,605.9  1,599.3  2,117.9
Loans_3/                                526.0    585.    609.9    962.7
Staff Pension Scheme                     14.4     17.4      26.2     27.5
Current Liabilities:
-Accounts Payable                      732.6    893.4  1,022.9  1,448.9
-Bank Overdrafts                       145.6    205.7    212.0    256.5
-Taxation                               36.2     36.2      36.2     36.2
Total Current Liabilities               914.4  1,135.3  1,271.1  1,741.6
Total Liabilities                     3,215.0  3,344.2  3,506.5  4,849.7
11, Work in progress includes some assets which are already in service.
. 2/'Net of bad debt provision.
-31 Includes N347.8 million equivalent of loan for works carried out during FY88
under the Siemens' contract which is to be transferred to NITEL from
the government.



-69-
ANNEX 4-2
Pae 1 of J
PSNRAL  rULIC OF NIEIA
N11*N 1.ECommickTONS UNTE  (NITEL)
FIRST  TVECONMUNICATINS POACT
(Naire MlI)
Eat  <                 Fe rwA-t
ReWnue                                 1929    1990   1i1         1992    1908      1994
Telephone                           1,024.8  2,032.8  2,8$2.7  2,792.4  8,235.9  4,260.4
Tolex                                 104.0   240.2   276.4   806.7   839.5   410.9
Telegraph                               8.2      8.3      4.6      5.5     0.6       6.0
International Inpeymente              227.5   220.7   230.9    84.7   865.4   420.6
Ors" Operating Revenue              1,869.5  2,505.0 2,914.6 8,438.8  $,997.6 6,110.8
Lsee: International Outpayeont*       212.4   207.9   266.4   273.9   804.5   855.5
Net Revenue                         1,147.1 2,207.1  2,069.2 8,159.4 8,693.0 4,766.8
Operating Expenxw
Salaries & Wage                       178.5   245.1   284.0   884.9   410.7   634.9
Other Operating                       288.1   308.0   848.5   400.9   460.9   530.0
Bad Oebt Provision                     44.8    50.6      0.7    77.5    90.0   116.9
Depreciation                           76.8   167.0   244.7   814.8   422.7   556.6
Total Operating Ex e                  5 20.7   772.0   942.9 1,127.3  1,j90.9 1,740.5
Net Operating Income(Lose)            020.4 1,524.5  1,710.8  2,081.0  2,802.1  8,014.9
Lee: Interest on Loans               1J8.0   214.2   285.8   807.1   818.3   372.3
Foreign Exchange Lo"                    1.0      1.1      0.5    25.0   127.3   103.1
Net Incoe(Loee) Before Tax            408.4  1,409.2  1,429.9 1,099.5  1,860.4 2,479.4
Tax                                   194.6   528.7   572.0   079.6   744.2   991.8
NHt Profit (Lo")                      291.6  7;95.5   35.0  1,019.7  1,116.8  1,487.7
- ---_,-



- 70 -
AMU 4-2
Peg. 2 .4 3
FU*I. UFOIc OF NiZA
NaiOM ThJCUhSZCA?h6U LIMIT  QSITh)
FI eCATIS POECT
i . ii.m MII)
Eat                    ece
ASSETS                             l969    1990   lf1    199    19W    1994
-                                    - _        e~          -      _      _-
;irm.. Fixed Asets               1,611.0 2,669.1 3,66.1 4,727.6 6,54.2 6,31.9
AccIulated Depr.lotio.            227.0  394.T   630.3   54.1  1,376.8 1,935.5
Total Fixed Assets               1,84.0 2,464.4 3,006.7 8,773.5 5,166.4 6,416.8
Work to Progrem                 2,47.0 2,173.6 2,516. 3,966.1 3,403.5 2,816.6
Iavegt.etg                         49.7   49.7   49.7   49.7   49.7   49.7
Current Aseets:
-Cosh anW al. Deposits          1,202.5 1,130.? 1,166.4 1,966.3 2,919.9 4,127.7
-Subeorilber Acounts Rocev*btI_1/   56.5  SU.0   69.6   69.0   632.9  C61.6
-0ter Rcelvable.                 65.6   761.5   7.7   67.7   $99.6   511.1
-nveeory                          66.1   125.0  1SS.S   304.3   343.2   390.9
Total Current Assets            2,492.7 2,6.0 3,17.1 3,617.6 4,699.5 5,681.4
TOTAL ASSETS                    6,373.8 7,531.0 8,764.1 11,627.1 13,521.1 15,164.0
-_-.--
LABILITIES
Equity                          2,460.1 3,254.7 4,113.2, 5,157.9 6,402.0 0,052.8
Loans                           1,424.0 1,975.7 2,66.7 4,344.8 4,600.2 5,067.0
Othe                               27.5   27.5   27.5   27.5   27.5    27.5
Current Liabilitls:
-Accounts Payable               2,011.7 1,5.6 1,006.2 1,049.8   99.2   706.5
-Taxetos                           5.4   523.7   572.0  679.6   744.2   991.6
-Other                           406.0   33.?   379.5  8367.8   351.0    19.6
Total Current LiabIlitie         2,453.7 2,273.2 1,969.7 2,096.9 2,091.4 2,016.8
Total LlabilItlee               6,373.3 7,531.0 6,764.1 11,627.1 1l,321.1 15,164.0
1/ Nt of bd debt provieoln.



- 71 -
ANNM 4-2
F .  WU.C UF NIIA
K11hN TUEIICTSUMIT  ('SIlL)
PWT..EiUcmATWS PSOJCT
Fur_ Flow
Est. <_r---F.roat
im      iuo     ion      1992    19i
Intrnal Cash Ogwration
-Nst Incam Before Interet                  990.7 1,148.6 1,8t6.7 1,480.1  1,660.0
-Depreciation                              167.6   244.7   814.0   422.7   55.6
-Foretgn Exchange Lass                       1.1    1 0.5    25.0   127.6   1".1
Internal Cash Gswrstion                   1,16.5  1,8s.0 1,.5 1,960.6 2,U1.4
Otwrs                                         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Loeans                                      611.5   941.5 1,910.0  561.6   857.0
TffAL SOURCES                             1,700.0 2,880.6 8,576.6 2,562.2 2,989.4
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expendittur                         978.9 1,149.2 2,4645.0 1,127.2 1,066.5
Investments                                   1.8     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Debt Service Long Term Debt
-interest                                  214.2   25.6   807.1   818.    8 72.8
-Principal                                  61.0   254.0   254.0   254.0   254.0
Total De4t Service                          275.2   509.6   CSl.0   567.6   626.8
Chang In Working Capital                    580.0   641.6   209.6    67.2 1,256.6
APPLICATIONS                              1,780.0 2,880.6  8,576.J  2,562.2 2,909.4
- _--
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-72-
Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN TSLEC0MDNICATIONS LIMITZD (NITEL)
FIRST TELECQMHUNICATIONS PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Finahcial Proiections
Price Levels and Tariffs
1.   Prices.   The following inflation and exchange rate were assumeds
Year         Foreign       Local              Exchange Rates
(Z)         (Z)                Naira/(US$)
1989          4.9             45                  7.40
1990          4.9             25                  8;.85
1991          4.9             10                  9.32
1992          4.9             10                  9.81
1993          4.9             10                 10.33
1994          4.9             10                 10.87
1995          4.9             10                 11.43
1996          3.7             10                 12.10
2.   Tariffs.  Tariffs schedules as shown in Annex 4-4 are used.  Domestic
tariffs were increased substantially effective February 1, 1990.  Domestic
and international tariffs are assumed to be adjusted to reflect changes in
cost and exchange rate, respectively.
Income Statements
3.   Operating Revenues. The operating revenues are calculated
individually for the f!ve zones.
li)     Telephone and Telex - Traffic revenues are calculated by
multiplying the traffic per line times the average number
of lines, and the average changes for local, long distance
and international calls.  The subscription installation
revenues are calculated on the basis alf existing lines and
additional lines installed.
(ii)     Telegraph - FPrecast to growth by 20 percent per annum.
(iii)     ether revenues - Forecast to growth by 10 percent per
annum.
4.   Operating Expeises. The 1perating expenses are assumed as follows:
li)     Personnel is average number of employees times average
salary per employee. The total number of employees is



73
Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 3
expected to increase, gut the staffing ratio is expected to
decrease as measures are taken to improve operational
efficiency, annual salaries are projected to increased by5
percent p.a. in real terms, to account for increase in
proportion of skilled staff.
(ii)     Other Costs comprising administrative and maintenance cost
expected to increase in real terms by 5Z p.a.
(iii)    gad Debt Provision is a percentage of billed revenues and
is projected at 5S.
(iv)    Depreciation has been calculated on a straight line at an
average composite rate of 7.5 percent on average gross
fixed assets in operation.
(v)     Exchange losses resulting from projected currency
devaluation were charged against operating income per
current accounting practices.
(vi)     Interest expense.  A schedule of assumed rates, loan
amounts available during the 1988-94 period, and repayment
terms for the various foreign/FGN financi4g sources is
tabulated on page 3.
Bilance Sheet Items
5.   Gross fixed assets reflect the investment program (Annex 3-1) and
transfers from work-in-progress.
6.   Accounts Receivable is a percentage of total operating revenue.  It
is assumed to decrease to a level of 60 days of billing in 1994.
7.   Inventories is estimated as a percentage on gross fixed assets in
service and work in progress with a gradual build-up over the period
1988-94 to achieve an average inventory level of 3.5 of GFA by 1992.
8.   Other Receivables are assumed to decrease to lOZ of operating revenue
by 1994 and remain at that level thereafter.
9.   Long-term debt and current portion are based on the project financing
plan, cost of funds and projected debt service, including financing
restructuring.
10. Accounts Payable is a percentage of cash operating cost and capital
expenditure. It is expected to decrease to 40 percent by 1994 and remain
at that level thereafter.
11. Capital lavestment. Details of NITEL's investment program are given
in Annex 3-1.



- 74
Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 3
12. Loans and Terms   ong.rteru loans and their terms are assumed as shown
belows
Amount  Onlending  Grace
(Fz Cur) late of   Period    Repayment
Currency  (Kill)  Interest  Principal   Years
Existing
MPR-N1ITE4       Naira      302      7.50?       3         10
NITIL-85& 86    lairs      130      9.00?       3          10
NITZL-87         Naira      152     16.00?       3         10
NITVL-87         Naira       26     13.00?       3         10
NITEL-88         Naira       36     15.OOS       2         10
SIEENS           Naira   1,930       8.00?       3         10
New
IBRD 1/           US$       225     7.75Z        5         15
OTHERS            US$       110     8.00?        5         10
lt Comitment charge lf 0.25?.



- 75 -
Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 3
PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN TELECOSHUNICATIONS LIMITED (NITEL)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS
Tariff Schedule
A. Telephone Services
1. Installation Charges
Private (Residential) Telephone Line
-  Installation Charges                           N  500.00
- Advanced Rental for 3 months                    N   25.00
- One copy of current National
Telephone Directory (Soft Cover)           N   10.00
-      Refundable Deposit                         N  300.00  11
For Bus:ness Telephone Line
-      Installation Charges                       N  700.00
-      Advanced Rental for 3 months               N   30.00
-      One copy of Current National
Telephone Directory (Soft Cover)           N   10.00
-      Refundable Deposit                         N  300.00
2. Extensions
-      Each Internal Extension                    N   30.00
-      Each External Extension       I            N  100.00
-      Each Socket for Plugs                      N  100.00
3. Monthly Rental Charges
Exclusive Exchange Lines
-      Direct Exchange Line                       N   20.00
-      Direct Exchange Business Line              N   50.00
Extension Lines - Internal
\  -   Private                                    N   20.00
-      Business                                   N   50.00
1/ Effective December 1967.



- 76 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 3
4.  Call Charges
The Periodic Metering Pulse Method is applied for STD service. The
unit fee per pulse is 90 Kobo (0.9 Naira). The pulse rates,
(duration) are as followst
Rate Class                  Distance (in 1m)                  Pulse Rate 1/
1                      Local Call                 3 plus 5 minutes 2/
2                     lCharging Areas
(short distance calls)            3 minutes
3                           < 50                        60 seconds
4                       51  --  90                      30 seconds
5                       91  -- 160                      20 seconds
6                      161..-- 250                      15 seconds
7                      251  -- 400                      12 seconds
8                           > 400                        9 seconds
1/  The off-peak (6pm to 7am) pulse rate (or half rate pulse) is double the
above for each rate class.
2/  Si-ice October 1988, local calls in all electronic exchanges are timed
at a pulse rate of 3 minutes for the first pulse and five minutes for
subsequent puls"s.
5.  International Charges
To participate in International Direct Dialing the subscriber has
to register with NITEL, paying a fee of 3500.00 and making a
rafundable deposit of N1,000.00 (N2,000.00 for business lines).3/
The international call charges ores
for:   Europe            N22.00   per minute
Americas         N25.00   per minute
Asia, Oceania    N25.00   per minute
Africa           N16.00   per minute
For Europe, there is a minimum charge of N66.00 for 3 minutes.
31 All Victoria Island subscribers are required to have IDD Services all
on connected DELs.



- 77 -
Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 3
B. Telex and TelepraDh services
1.  The Periodic Metering Pulse Method is also *pplied in the telex
inland service. The fee per pulee ie t0 Kobo. The pulse rate
varies between 60 seconds and 4.5 seconds tdepending On the
distance.
2.   International charges are as follows:
--    Europe          N20.00   per sinute
\ --    Americas      N20.00   per minute
--    Asia, Oceania   N20.00   per minute
--    Africa          N15.00   per minute
3.   The charges for telegrams are:
--    Ordinary        12 words   30 Kobo
Urgent          12 words   60 Kobo
--    Greeting        staidard   50 Kobo
--    Press ordinary  50 words   30 Kobo
International All Countries N 5.00 per word.



-78-
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUNLIC OIF NIGERIA
VIGhRIJ TLECCWEICATIOWS LDHITD (NITEL)
FIRST TZLWCOMMUNICATIOS PROJECT
Return on Investmnts
1.       Thelproposed project is an integral part of NITEL's 1990-1994
investment program which also includes ongoing works from various projects.
The inter-relationship betwee  the various components of the investment
prograu makes it difficult =n  arbitrary to separate the incremental
'benefits and costs of the project and the rest of the program. Hence the
rates of return computed below are based on the overall investment program
plus the pre-investment in 1989 for the ongoing works.
2.       The benefit period of the investment program extends from 1991-
2010, ihen on average the equipment provided under the program is expected
to have' completed its useful life. Without th* program, the network is
expected to deteriorate, resulting in falling revenue and increasing costs
of operation. The rate of return calculation assumes that without the
program, the revenue and operating cost will remain at the 1990 levels.
The benefits attributed to the program, due to the increase in traffic on
the new lines connected and higher traffic on existing lines, are assumed
to be the incremental revenue with respect to 1990 level. Similarly, the
operating costs attributed to the program due to the costs of the new lines
less the operating cost savings realized on existingUlines are assumed to
be the incremental operating cost with respect to 1990 level. From 1996
on, benefits and operating costs relating to the program ake assumed to be
constant. No residual values of fixed assets have been taken into account
as the present value of these in real terms,would be minimal.
3.       A summary of financial and economic costs and benefits are given
on page 3. All the benefits 4ad costs have been deflated to comparable
1989 prices. The internal financial rate of return for the program is
estimated at 17.2 percent. Adjusting for taxes ard applying a standard
consumer factor of 0.85 to all local costs to convert them into economic
border prices, the minimum economic rate of return for the program is
estimated at 23.7 percent. This return underestimates the benefits to be
derived from the teleconmunications investmefht program. It does not take
into account consumer surplus and indirect and external benefits received
by non-users of the telecommunications services.



- 79 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 3
4.       A senSitivity analysis vas made on the economic rate of return
with the following resultst
Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Return
Economic
Component                         Chanse (X)            Rate of ReXurn (Z)
-  Progvan Cost                     +20                      21
I                           -20                      28
-  Benefits                         +20                      28
-20                     19
- Combination:
Program Cost                   +20                      17
Benefits                       -20
-  Combination
Program Cost                   -20                      32
Benefits                       +20



-      tA1 lU    t8L1C Iwe ~OiAQ- h
NIoetm  T=W"tTCSTIONS LDIrTW  CUM)
FRTETh.CMgIIcATIOM  FROWt
Financial and Sccioaic Ret. of etsurn
Financial RIN Stress    --- ------                           FM
Pr"ogr   Proram   Total                                                 (Constant 1969 Priceo)                              (Cnetaut lot Pri_.)
Del Iatlor  Coat    Coat   Progrus Oprating  Taxes  Operating                  Incrmant.l       Increnta l                                           Ineremt.l
'eer     (1)    Local  Foeitgn   Cont    Coat               R.nujut          Program 4._eCt              Op.      Net             Progra Incremental          t,       KIM
(Net IDC                                     Cost   aTaxes.           Revenwe Nmenett             coat  op. cost           Rg.enu. Imefit
1g                 9                                                                    W3 640  4                                   of40*
19       12       248      726     814      a"       84   227                            70                                          4        0 
1ow-    186       166      99    1.13       8W       672   2,69                          19               98     (77                SO?       to 
18W      13       464   1.92     2.396      73NS319135                                   7                      143               I.53"      41               8 
11i1     4141    40        367     92                744   8.69                364      117              U62                        a" 73                               1'
11104                   2 o44242  216 761  28Ui in                            7         01
200a     lot                    -:                 17                                                  2'1010  4'1 SWU                                      *e in  No
191118    ia                                                                                              *      1.  8                                    t    * 4.71i
it"  47        179        840
2005                                                                                    647                                                                 1,0 Do9
3008                                                                                    so              2,05?    1.210                       so              ,07     1.
1005                                                                                    "7              2.057    1.210                      54               .W       .9 
2607                                                                                    847             2 06    1.210                       946             1.5       .61
2000                                                                                    64             2.06p    1.210                       *4              105      1.891
2041                                                                                    66              2,051    121 MO8                                    9.0      1.01*
201                                                                                     647             2 067    1,210                      948              .5      1,61
PUt  a      17.23                                    -           3.75
1. The KrP of066Ie hasbo  apilied to Is.al  .te and bandit.
for fAs yew*a 199is 1986.
S. The. rmesatre of return to the mini... retrom.
Wi



- 81 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY (NITEL)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Prolect File
Draft List of Documents to be sent to Project File
1.   Nigeria: Public Expenditure Review (1986-90), World Bank, October 29,
t985.
2. Nigeria: Telecommunications Sector Review, World Bank, August 5,
1985.
3.   Situation Review 1986: Document prepared for African
Telecommunications Development Conference, Tunis, January 1987.
4.   World Bank Project Identification Mission, November 1987: Back-to-
Office Report dated December 17, 1987; report on financial consultant
dated December 18. 1987; report of engineering consultant dated
November 1987.
5.   NITEL: Memorandum and Articles of Association, dated December 20,
1984,
6. Nigeria: Fifth Five Year Development Plan for Telecommunications, May
1985.
7.   Press Briefings on the activities of the Ministry of Communications,
June 16, 1986 and March 6, 1987.
8. Reports and Papers presented at the Telecommunications Policy
Seminar, January-February 1987.
9.   CTO: A Survey of the Telecommunications Network, May 1986.
10. BT: Report on the Proposed Organizational Structure of NITEL, January
1986.
11.  Coopers and Lybrand: Opening Balance Sheet of NITEL based on book
valuation, November.15, 1986.
12.. DETECON: Review of NITEL's Development Plan for 1987 to 1991 and Long
Terms Network Development Strategy.
13.  Hydroservices: Diagnostic Assessment of the Performance of Lagos
Network.
14. Peat Marvick: Review of NITEL's financial and accounting system.
!15. Peat Xarwicki Financial Presentatiou Document for Bank loan
application.



N^IG-ERIA                                      A,   CHAD         .
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT   
BURKINA                                                       NI G E R X
i  FASO                                                                                    Yol R.4
< 1 \ } ~~SOKOTO                                              tX,BORNO 
{ s \\ ~~~~NORTH. WESTK                                                            P 47sk 
BENIN            (                                  
II) mumwS;                                                  g        -                      f
KWAR
) B x ~~~~~~~BENUE  
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~drn th prjet
A n r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Mkoae tUnks
1AGOS                                                                                                   Standr W Eaf S_ i '^s
-       AKWA-IBOM                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zntenuE Boundaries



