Report No. PIC3317
Project Name                        Nicaragua-Public Sector...
Rationalization Credit
Region                              Latin America & Caribbean
Sector                              Public Sector Management
Project ID number                   NIPA7777
Borrower                            Republic of Nicaragua
Principal Responsible Entity        Ministry of Finance
Dr. Emilio Pereira
Minister of Finance
Tel: (505-2) 285-043
Fax: (505-2) 223-033
Environment Category                C
Date PID Prepared                   February 27, 1996
Projected Appraisal                 March 6, 1996
Project Board Date                  May 28, 1996
A.   Background
Country and Sector Background
1.   Nicaragua's economy is small (GDP of $1.9 billion) with a GDP per
capita in 1994 of $330. It is vulnerable to the external environment
because of its dependence on a few export commodities and external
assistance. When the current Government assumed office in April, 1990
the economy was devastated by ten years of mismanagement and six years
of civil war. It was characterized by a bloated and cumbersome public
sector, a small and over-regulated private sector, and atrophied market
institutions. Exports and GDP per capita had declined to 40 percent of
the levels attained in the mid 1970s, and severe macroeconomic
imbalances had led to hyper-inflation and an external debt more than
five times the size of GDP. Since 1991 the Government has implemented
a series of stabilization and structural adjustment programs aimed at
transforming Nicaragua into a market economy capable of achieving
sustained growth. Significant progress has been achieved and by 1995
real GDP was growing by 4 percent and inflation had fallen to 11
percent. Further structural reforms, however, are essential to: (i)
sustain macroeconomic stability; (ii) accommodate the faster than
previously anticipated decline in external assistance; and (iii) improve
growth performance, which though finally positive in per capita terms,
remains modest and subject to shocks.
B.   Objective
2.   The proposed operation would support an adjustment program to
underpin fiscal strengthening through: (i) shrinking the state banking
sector and reducing its threat to short term stability and long term
development; and (ii) improving the Government's financial performance
through increased institutional efficiency, improved management of its



financial and human resources, and tax reform. The PSRC would support
the effort to transform transform the public sector into one which is
small, strong, agile, and which supports the private sector as a
generator of investment, growth, and jobs.
C.   Description
3.   Key components of the project, as detailed below, would aim to: (i)
reduce state banks as a source of fiscal and monetary disequilibrium;
and (ii) improve the Government's financial performance and public
savings through: (a) an accelerated institutional rationalization; (b)
strengthening the management by the public sector of its financial and
human resources; and (c) a tax reform to reduce discretionality,
increase transparency, and broaden the tax base.
4.   Component 1:   State Bank Reform.  The Government has sought to
rebuild the financial system. It has established a Superintendent of
Banks, modified the regulatory framework, and chartered new banks. In
comparison to 1990 when there were none, there are now 11 private banks,
with several domestic and foreign groups expressing interest in new
entries. These banks now intermediate over 60 percent of new credit.
The full development of the financial sector, however, is selectively
inhibited by the presence and poor operation of state banks. The two
largest state banking institutions (BANADES and BANIC) continue to build
serious financial liabilities for the Government and Central Bank,
undermining fiscal and monetary equilibrium. They hold most banking
assets (with half of those assets not performing), have been losing on
average over $40 million a year, have loan recovery rates of only 50-60
percent, exhibit considerable loan portfolio concentration, and act as
agents for inefficient credit expansion. The Government, therefore, is
undertaking a comprehensive program to reduce the state banks as
obstacles to the efficient functioning of the financial sector. Bad
assets of BANIC and BANADES are being transferred to a new Collection
Agency charged with loan recovery. The sanitized BANIC will be
capitalized through the issuance of new shares to new investors.
BANADES will be shrunk to about one third its current size, with less
than 5 percent share of total banking assets. Its operations will be
directed toward supporting small borrowers in rural areas. This
shrinkage will be accomplished through the transfer of assets and by
reducing operating costs through the closure or sale of a significant
number of branch offices.
5.   Component 2:   Improved Fiscal Performance.  To promote improved
fiscal performance and the generation of higher public savings, a
comprehensive package of reforms will support broader structural
adjustment. The central government would be restructured at both the
macro and micro levels. The mission of ministries and their
responsibilities within key policy areas will be adjusted under the
provisions of recently submitted legislation, and the restructuring of
individual institutions at the micro level is being pursued through the
design and implementation of Institutional Restructuring Agreements
(IRA). These agreements, negotiated between the cabinet level Committee
to Reform the Public Administration (CERAP) and the candidate
institution, would serve to guide and discipline the restructuring
process, establishing objectives and performance benchmarks as well as
-2 -



delineating the resources (technical assistance, training, information
technology, etc.) to be made available to the participating IRA
institution. Financial management reform will modernize and integrate
the budget, accounting, and auditing systems of the Government to
increase efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency. The project will
also help strengthen human resource management through development of a
new core professional cadre of civil servants as well as improved
management information systems and personnel and pay policies. Finally,
a tax reform program will aim at increased transparency, enhanced
revenue collection without an increase in marginal rates, and a
reduction in the distortive effects of the current system of exemptions
and incentives.
D.   Financing
6.   The proposed credit is a joint operation for a total of $67 million
of which IDA would finance $35 million, and the IDB $32 million.
Bilateral co-financing is being sought. The IDA credit would be
released in one tranche on effectiveness. The Institutional Development
Credit, approved by IDA in March, 1995, is providing technical
assistance to the design and implementation of the Government's program.
E.   Implementation
7.   Overall project coordination will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance in collaboration with several public institutions.
Reform of the state banks is being undertaken by the Finance Ministry
with the support of the Central Bank, the Superintendent of Banks, as
well as the affected banks. CERAP and its secretariat (the Coordination
Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector located in the Ministry of
Finance), will oversee the institutional restructurings, and reforms in
financial and human resource management. The Ministry of Finance is
supervising the tax reform effort.
F.   Sustainability
8.   Project sustainability will depend critically upon the Government's
continued commitment to the reform agenda. The substantial progress
achieved by the Government in public sector reform over the last few
years and the support given to this process by the legislature suggest
that considerable momentum has been achieved. Moveover, the
implementation of modern financial and human resource management
systems, as well as training programs being supported by the
Institutional Development Credit will provide the needed tools to help
the Government sustain its rationalization measures.
G.   Environmental Aspects
9.   The project will not have an environmental impact, and therefore
has been classified as Category C -- no environmental analysis is
necessary.
Contact Point        Public Information Center
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 10433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



