             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                      International Development Association                                87130
                        International Finance Corportation
                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                               EDS98·177
                                   CONFIDENTIAL                                               AprilS, 1998


  Board Meeting of April 9, 1998
  Statement by Matthias Meyer

                                        NICARAGUA
              Country Assistance Strategy and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit

  Country Assistance Strategy

          We would like to express our appreciation to the staff of the Bank for the preparation of
  this well structured document. In particular, we welcome the efforts undertaken by the Bank to
  involve all interested groups, including the Government, members of civil society and the
  donor community. To be effective, however, we recommend that such coordination be given
  more time in the future, and that the preparation would include the preparation of relevant
  background papers by the Bank. In this connection, we regret not having been informed about
  the CSIR which took place in March 1997. We commend the Bank to its decision to reopen its
  representation in Managua which will certainly help further improve coordination with
  donors.

          Overall, we find the document informative and well balanced. Nevertheless, we cannot
  help feeling that the section on good governance and decentralization, at this point is merely a
  list of general intentions of the Government, rather than a clear policy statement as regards
  these crucial issues for the future social and economic development of Nicaragua. We would
  like to recall that most donors stressed the importance of this issue at the occasion of the
  Consultative Group Meeting, and that they expect to see some substantial progress in this
  respect.

          We agree on the three core priorities of the CAS, and think the mix of lending
  instruments, non-lending support and the involvement of all the WB Group institutions is
  appropriate. Taking into account the generally low level of education in Nicaragua and the
  crucial importance of education for the country's development, we reconunend however,
  Government to prioritize development of human capital and to develop a coherent strategy for
  that area. We agree with the high priority given to the development of the rural sector.
  However, we would like to draw attention to a significant error in paragraph 7 of the
  document: To our knowledge, small and medium farmers in Nicaragua in fact cultivate 75
  percent of the cultivated land, but they certainly do not own it, mainly due to lacking property
  titles.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                 2


        The three CAS risks mentioned certainly should be taken very seriously. On the one
hand, the Government's commitments to structural adjustment and reform within the ESAF
framework are very ambitious and the risks of increased polarization and of pressures to
increase (or not to further cut) government spending are very real. In this respect it is crucial for
the Government to maintain and deepen the dialogue with opposition parties and the civil
society.

       On the other hand, concerns regarding the weak institutional capacity are also very
relevant. The high turnover of key technical staff in various ministries and agencies worsens
the situation, and the Government should give priority to an early Parliament's approval of the
civil service reform law, in order to ensure professionalism and continuity among civil
servants. In addition, given the Government's weak implementation capacity, constructive
dialogue should be engaged and cooperations sought with the NGOs and other groups of civil
society which could play an important role in this respect.

        An important additional risk, not mentioned in the document, relates to Nicaragua's
highly vulnerable external position. Given the Government's intention to participate in the
HIPC initiative, Nicaragua cannot allow itself to be once more off-track. Nicaragua's
international reserves are extremely low, its current account and trade deficits are still
important, and its important debt restructuring and debt reduction efforts will lead to a
significant increase in prioritized debt service obligations. Regarding this last point in
particular, it becomes urgent that Nicaragua prepares an updated, comprehensive debt
management strategy, including prioritization of the various debt categories.

       Finally, the Government's implementation of the CAS depends to a large extent on
external funds. In this regard, we are especially concerned that bilateral donors are expected to
finance a considerable share of current social sector spending through the proposed
Supplementary Social Fund. The role of donors should be to supplement Government's social
expenditures, not to replace those.


Financial Sector Adjustment Credit

        The proposed credit is a good complement to the CAS, and fits well within the private
sector development strategy. Apart from urgently needed reform cf the state banking sector,
we find the emphasis given on overall regulatory framework improvement particularly
relevant. Together with a stable macroeconomic environment, well functioning financial
markets are crucial for ensuring an effective mobilization and an efficient allocation of domestic
and foreign investment.
