Document of
the International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7232 NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT OF SDR 51.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
APRIL 9, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the International Development Association's
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1= 9.8 Nicaraguan C6rdobas
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BANADES        National Development Bank
BANIC S.A.   Nicaraguan Bank for Industry and Trade, Inc.
BCP            Popular Credit Bank
BIN           Ihnobiliario Bank
BOFOS          Development Bonds
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBN           Central Bank of Nicaragua
CENIS         Negotiable Investment Certificates
CERAP         Executive Committee for Public Administration Reform
COBANICSA   Nicaraguan Collection Agency
CORFIN        Nicaraguan Financial Corporation
EBE           Expert Bank Examiners
EMTAC         Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit
ERC II         Economic Recovery Credit II
FSAC           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FNI            National Investment Fund
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IDC            Institutional Development Credit
IMF            International Monetary Fund
INSER          State Insurance Company
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
SBIF           Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions
SDR            Special Drawing Right
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:               Shahid Javed Burki, LCRVP
Country Managing Unit Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, LCC2C
Sector Director:             Guillermo Perry, LCSPR
Task Team Leader:            Ronald E. Myers, LCSPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Nicaragua
Amount:      SDR 51.8 million (equivalent to US$70 million)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with an amnortization period of 40 years, including a grace period of
10 years.
Program
Objectives:   The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) would support the
Governnent's structural adjustmnent program, which aims to: (i) carry out a major reform
of the state banking sector; (ii) improve financial interrnediation, especiaUy in rural areas;
and (iii) improve the regulatory framework for private banking.
Credit
Description:  To help achieve the program's objectives, the proposed FSAC would support measures to:
(i) maintain a stable macroeconomic framework; (ii) restructure the state banking system,
including the closure of one state bank and the capitalization by private investors of
another state bank; (iii) foster private banking presence in the rural and agricultural
sectors; and (iv) strengthen the regulatory framework for, and supervision of, private
banking. A policy matrix spelling out the objectives of the proposed credit and measures
already taken is provided as Annex B.
Benefits:    Implementation of the reform program would allow the Government to address major
obstacles to sustainable private sector-led growth, namely: resolving the long standing
threats to fiscal stability and financial markets posed by the state banks, directly promoting
improved financial intermediation with regard to the criticaly important rural and
agricultural sectors, and taking key steps to strengthen the regulatory framework for the
financial sector. Approval of the FSAC snould enable the Government to mobilize
additional balance of payments support, which would permit a more predictable and
orderly economic adjustment path. To the extent that implementation of the proposed
reform program succeeds in maintaining economic growth within a stable macroeconomic
environment, the Government would be in a stronger position to resist political pressures
for more populist and interventionist policies, or risk the real gains achieved in
Nicaragua's transition to a market economy.
Risks:       The proposed credit involves three major risks. First, the capitalization of BANIC could
be complicated by existing and future claims against the bank both within and outside
Nicaragua. The Government is seeking through pending legislation to assume financial
responsibility for those claims (which should resolve issues relating to domestic claimants)
and in any case will seek to resolve external claims should the legislation not prove
sufficient. Second, the sale of BANIC shares (and Government assumption of claims
against the bank) requires congressional approval which could be controversial causing
delays or halting the implementation of the BANIC capitalization. However, the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



l  o z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NICARAGUA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
I. HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS .............................1
II. THE FRAMEWORK FOR GROWTH ...........................................................2
- A. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ............................................................2
B. MEDIUM  TERM  ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ............................................................4
III. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ............................................................5
IV. THE FINANCLAL SECTOR ...........................................................5
Overview  of the Financial System ...........................................................6
Legal Framework ...........................................................8
The Banking System ...........................................................9
Regulatoxy Framework ..........................................................                                                    12
Agricultural Credit ..........................................................                                                     12
V. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ........................................... 13
A. STATE BANKS ..........................................................                                                           14
B. STRENGTHENING  BANK  SUPERVISION ..........................................................                                      18
C. IMPROVING  AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT ..........................................................                                      20
VI. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..........................................................                                                       22
Rationale, Size, and Tranching ..........................................................                                          22
Conditions for Tranche Release ...........................................................                                        23
Procurement, Disbursements, and Audits ..........................................................                                  25
Relations with other Financial Organizations and Donors ..........................................................                    25
Technical Assistance Requirements ..........................................................                                      26
Benefits and Risks ..........................................................                                                     26
VII. RECOMMENDATION .....................................................                                                                 27
Annex A Letter of Development Policy
Annex B Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex C Bank Supervision Action Plan
Annex D Nicaraguan Financial Sector
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the International Development
Association's authorization






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) for SDR 51.8 million (US$70
million equivalent) to the Republic of Nicaragua in support of the Government's financial
sector adjustment program. The credit would be on standard IDA terns, with an
amortization period of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
L HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
2.    The second poorest country in Latin America, Nicaragua is struggling to complete
a transition from a centrally planned to a market economy, while reinforcing stability and
democracy after years of political turmoil and economic decline. The economy is small
(GDP of US$2.0 billion) with a GNP per capita in 1996 of only US$400. Tremendous
achievements have been realized on the macro front since the early 1990s, as detailed in
the Country Assistance Strategy Paper which is being circulated for consideration by the
Executive Directors in parallel with this document. In brief, the democratically elected
government of President Chamorro confronted a devastated economy and a highly
polarized society after more than a decade of economic mismanagement and warfare.
Most of Nicaragua's limited infrastructure base was either destroyed or in an advanced
state of disrepair; exports and GDP per capita had fallen to 40 percent of the levels
attained in the mid 1970s, and major economic imbalances had resulted in hyperinflation
and a huge external debt of more than 5 times GDP. A far-reaching land reform and urban
property redistribution program had left a complex property rights problem, and the basic
institutions that had once supported a market economy were defmnct.
3.    Relying on strong support from  the international donor community, the
Government embarked on an ambitious stabilization and reform program. Although
progress was never easy and occasionally sidetracked by political disruptions, the results
over the course of the Chamorro administration were impressive, including a drastic
reduction of the fiscal deficit (by almost 20 percentage points of GDP), elimination of
price controls, sale of most state owned productive firms, liberalization of the exchange
and trade systems, resolution of many property disputes, the re-emergence of private
banking, creation of a Superintendency of Banks, and reduction of the share of state banks
in total credit. By most measures, the program was a success: inflation fell to low double
digits, the economy has been growing steadily since 1994, a significant number of private
financial intermediaries have emerged, private domestic and foreign investment is
recovering, and open unemployment is estimated to have fallen from 23 percent in 1993 to
14 percent in 1997.



-2 -
4.    Nonetheless, much remains to be done by the present Government, which took
office in January 1997, to complete the transition to a peaceful and sustainable market
economy, with real gains in the standard of living of the majority of the population.
Poverty is widespread, the country still faces an unsustainable debt burden, and a sound
framework is needed for market-led private sector development. In this context, some of
the most important challenges concern the financial system, and it is on this agenda that
the proposed operation would focus, as detailed in Section IV below.
IL THE FRAMEWORK FOR GROWTH
5.    Most of Nicaragua's medium-term growth potential, and the key to extreme
poverty alleviation, lies in the revitalization of agriculture and rational exploitation of the
country's abundant natural resources. About two-thirds of all the poor and close to four-
fifths of the extreme poor are concentrated in rural Nicaragua; and three out of four poor
households derive most of their income from agriculture. Unlike several of its neighbors,
Nicaragua does not have a high population density in relation to good, arable land; indeed
Nicaragua was once the most successful agriculture economy in the area. There have
been some clear signs of an agricultural recovery since about 1994. Building on this will
require maintaining a competitive real exchange rate and eliminating remaining anti-
agricultural biases in the trade regime, as well as improvements in the workings of land
markets, rural financial markets, technology investments, and agricultural markets.
Formulation of a social policy agenda to support human development and poverty
alleviation will also be critical. A large share of Government resources are allocated to the
social sectors, but absolute per capita expenditures in health and education are still well
below regional averages. Given budgetary constraints, improving social services will
depend on effective targeting, efficient use of limited resources, developing cost-recovery
options, and directing a larger share of foreign aid to these sectors. Macroeconomic
imbalances remain large and the business environment requires considerable strengthening.
These challenges set the agenda for the present administration and its international
partners.
A. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
6.    After several years of little apparent response to the initial stabilization and reform
efforts of the early 1990s, the economy began to turn around in 1994, when it registered
an annual growth rate of 3.3 percent despite mixed weather conditions which depressed
agricultural output below potential. This upward trend continued in 1995 and 1996, with
growth of 4.3 and 4.5 percent respectively. Inflation averaged around 11.6 percent during
those two years and the external current account deficit (excluding interest obligations)
declined slightly to 17.8 percent of GDP in 1996, with strong growth (27 percent) in the
dollar value of exports of goods and non factor services. Although agreements reduced
the outstanding stock of debt from 541 percent of GDP in 1995 to 282 percent of GDP by
November 1997, effective debt payments increased from 11.3 percent in 1995 to 16.2
percent of GDP in 1997.



- 3 -
7.    Despite the improvements in the real economy, the incoming Aleman
administration in January, 1997 confronted serious challenges, not the least of which a
15.7 percent of GDP fiscal deficit before grants (7.1 percent of GDP after grants).
Foreign reserves were minimal, and state bank finances were deteriorating. In response
the new Government initiated a comprehensive fiscal program including a broad tax
reform and a significant revenue collection effort, cuts in Government recurrent and
capital spending other than in the social sectors, and expanded private participation in
infrastructure. As a result, the combined fiscal deficit before grants declined to 9.6
percent of GDP (3.6 percent of GDP after grants) by year end. Despite this fiscal
tightening and adverse weather, real growth in 1997 is estimated to have increased to 5.0
percent while inflation fell to 7.3 percent.
8.    Given a macroeconomic situation which is fragile and vulnerable to shocks and
reductions in foreign assistance, the Government has designed and begun implementing an
ambitious stabilization program. This effort will be supported by an ESAF program which
is being presented to the HMF Board on March 18, 1998. Assuming continued expansion
of agriculture, non-traditional exports and increased investment, real GDP growth is
projected to accelerate to 5-6 percent per year over the next three years. Inflation is
projected to decline to 8 percent in 1998 and to remain in single digits. A major
improvement in the foreign reserve position is also envisioned, with gross reserves rising
from the equivalent of less than one week of imports at the end of 1997 to 3 months at
end-2000.
9.    The fiscal program aims at increasing the combined public sector savings by 6
percentage points of GDP over the 1998-2000 period with a sizable effort coming in the
first year. The fiscal targets would be achieved by reducing current outlays through a
freeze in non-social current expenditures and reduction in export subsidies, and a
reduction in the size of the public sector. The Government also plans to accelerate the
privatization program. The increased savings would permit the maintenance of public
investment at around 12 percent of GDP while reducing the combined deficit before grants
from 15.7 percent of GDP in 1996 to 4 percent of GDP by the year 2000. The deficit
after grants would fall from 7.1 percent of GDP in 1996 to a small surplus in 2000.
10.   The monetary program will be geared to achieve the targets on inflation and
international reserves, and to continue to enhance the participation of private banks in
financial intermediation. The net domestic assets of the Central Bank are programmed to
decline over 1998-2000 reflecting improvements in the fiscal position, increased reserve
deposits of the commercial banks as a result of the unification of the reserve requirements
across deposits and currencies, and reduced operational losses of the Central Bank. The
growth in financial system liabilities to the private sector is expected to slow from 63
percent in 1997 to 16-20 percent per year in 1998-2000. Credit to the private sector is
projected to grow by 12-14 percent per year over the same period.
11.   Nicaragua will continue to rely heavily on foreign financing for the foreseeable
future even though the current account deficit excluding interest obligations is projected to
improve somewhat (US$350 million or 17.9 percent of GDP in 1996 versus US$259



-4 -
million or 10.9 percent in the year 2000). Total gross disbursements of official grants and
loans would average about US$400 million per year over the same period. Private capital
is projected to add US$216 million annually. Given Nicaragua's heavy debt burden,
exceptional financing needs for 1998 are estimated at US$846 million (including clearance
of bilateral arrears), US$129 million in 1999, and US$108 million in 2000. Significant
reduction of the high level of external debt and debt service burden is key to external and
fiscal sustainability. Access to the HIPC initiative would eventually provide much needed
debt relief which should create the fiscal space essential for more aggressive anti-poverty
and social development efforts.
B. MEDIUM TERM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
12.  In parallel with the above macro-management objectives and targets, the current
Government is committed to carrying out a far-reaching adjustment program to modernize
and decentralize central Government operations, reform and strengthen the financial
system, and develop a sound framework for private sector development. It aims to
increase public sector savings, reorient remaining public sector activities, and expand the
scope for the private sector. Major accomplishments to date include the passage of tax
reform legislation last April which improves the efficiency of the tax system, introduces a
flat land tax, and adopts a bold tariff reform program (maximum tariffs will be reduced to
10 percent by 1999). A free trade agreement with Mexico went into effect in January
1998. Legislation presented to Congress in December 1997 seeks to streamline central
government operations through elimination of four ministries (External Cooperation,
Tourism, Social Action, and the Presidency) and the Government projects a major
reduction over three years in the number of public entities through consolidation and
privatization. The legislation also aims to eliminate duplication of responsibilities and to
allocate functions more rationally among remaining institutions.   Private sector
participation in infrastructure (power generation, port stevedoring services and road
maintenance) has begun. The Government plans to privatize the state telecommunications
company and is preparing the electricity company and water company for increased
private participation.
13.   The proposed FSAC operation would support the financial system  reform
elements of the adjustment program. It would underpin fiscal strengthening by virtually
eliminating the threat to government finances stemming from the state banking sector,
improve the environment for sustainable and sound expansion of the private financial
sector by addressing the most pressing issues of banking regulation, as well as promote the
development of financial intermediation serving the needs of small rural borrowers.
14.  In subsequent years, as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex A),
the Government would extend and deepen current initiatives, perhaps supported by a
future IDA adjustment credit. Possible initiatives would include a comprehensive reform
of the legal framework of the financial sector and commercial laws, strengthening of
property rights and reforming the commercial justice system, reforming the pension
system, accelerated transformation of the public sector into a regulator rather than



- 5 -
producer of goods and services through privatization of utilities and strengthening the
planning and regulatory capacity of the state, decentralization of activities to local
government, and adopting more pro-active policies and mechanisms to effectively promote
foreign private investment as an indispensable condition for a successful integration into
the global market economy.
m. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
15.  IDA has played an important role in supporting Nicaragua's efforts since the early
1990s to revive growth and alleviate poverty. Investment operations have concentrated
on reviving agriculture, developing human capital, providing social and economic
infrastructure to the poorest regions, rehabilitating critical roads, improving natural
resource management, and reforming the state. IDA has also supported the reduction of
the country's commercial debt burden through a buy-back operation and IDA reflows. In
coordination with the lMF, IDB, and bilateral donors, IDA has provided financial and
analytical support and other non-lending services to the structural adjustment process.
Formal economic and sector work has focused on understanding poverty and improving
the effective use of public resources. IDA has provided a wide-range of non-lending
services with emphasis on gender, agriculture and natural resources, education, health,
indigenous groups and rural finance. More recently, IDA has been working with the
Government on options to develop a sound private-led rural financial system; bringing the
private sector more actively into infrastructure and, through FIAS, attracting foreign
investment; and promoting national consensus on the development strategy and
contentious policy issues.
16.   The new CAS proposes a strategy aimed at reducing poverty and income
inequality by helping Nicaragua accelerate its transition to a full market economy. Within
a sound enabling environment the rural sector is a major potential source of private-sector
led growth. IDA support will target: (i) consolidating macroeconomic stability by
increasing public savings through state bank reform, pensions reform and reducing
external debt to sustainable levels through the HIPC initiative; (ii) improving access to
social services, particularly nutrition, primary education and strengthening the social safety
net; (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the public sector and promoting
decentralization; (iv) creating the enabling environment for private-sector led growth by
developing a sound financial system and improving basic infrastructure; and (v) developing
the rural sector and strengthening environment protection, developing well-functioning
land markets, rural financial services, improving agricultural productivity, and stimulating
non-farm economic activity.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
17.   After taking power in July 1979, the Sandinista Administration dismantled
Nicaragua's private financial system, which at the time was considered one of the more
advanced in Central America. All private banks were nationalized, control of state bank



-6-
operations was transferred to a holding company, and the number of financial institutions
was reduced to five. Over the following decade, subsidies channeled as loans coupled
with the use of the banking system to pursue political objectives completely undermined
the soundness of the system, as well as the loan repayment culture in Nicaragua.
18.   The Chamorro Government, which came to office in April 1990, reopened banking
to the private sector. Banking supervision and regulation were introduced, interest rate
and credit controls were eliminated, and an interbank foreign exchange market was
established. These reforms, together with rising private capital inflows and economic
recovery since 1994, have resulted in a deepening of financial intermediation and improved
allocation of financial resources. However, much remains to be done to complete the
transformation. State banks continued until recently to be sources of fiscal drain and
financial market distortion despite recapitalization and restructuring efforts, rural credit
mechanisms were inadequate to meet the needs of small borrowers, and the growth of
private banking has exposed gaps in the legal and regulatory framework. For that reason,
the current Government is moving aggressively, with significant IDA technical support, in
the first phase of a financial sector overhaul to virtually close the state banking system,
design alternative policies and institutional arrangements, mostly private-led, to support
active rural financial intermediation, as well as strengthen the regulatory climate for
private banking.
Overview of the Financial System
19.   At present, Nicaragua's financial system consists of 10 private commercial banks,
3 state-owned development banks, 2 private finance companies, 1 state-owned investment
fund, 1 state-owned and 4 private insurance companies, 7 private deposit warehouses, 1
stock exchange with 13 registered brokerage houses (11 active), and numerous small,
non-profit financial intermediaries (credit unions, NGOs). Nicaragua's financial system
has experienced a spectacular growth since 1991, evidenced by the rise in the ratio of
liquid liabilities of financial intermediaries (M3) to GDP which is now comparable to the
level observed in middle-income countries (Chart 1).
................... ..... .Despite        largely     stable
~~~~~~~~~~..   .......    -      --.idE. ..fi      -i  i -,Ei -.-  .   - -E.......i-i E
......... .     ...    ......    ....          macroeconomic    and    financial
.e. _ _ _   _ __    _ _ ___.. ..                conditions in recent years and
........ -UFo¢eICum.eyDcyBepo   . ..  the unification of the exchange
a&-- LncaICumencyDeposl--                      rate market, this growth has
been    mainly   in    dolar
M..                                          .... _   _ _   _ _ .  :denominated deposits with the
.       . _   . . ..-    -                     share  of doUar denominated
.. financial savings increasing from
m        -_                                    ---  29  percent in  1991  to  63
percent in  1997.   Effective
.a ,    94 -a -a ..                dollarization is higher still, since
practically    all    c6rdoba



- 7 -
denominated financial assets and liabilities, except sight deposits, include a "maintenance
of value" provision indexing the return in local currency to the official exchange rate.
20.     The  allocation   of  financial  resources  through  the  market  has  improved
significantly. As the share of state banks in total private sector credit has declined since
4 ..    .. ... .... .......... ..,-...... .....
.Oiart~  MsOs  nd0Ced- of theB ''lmsdn  Ser
---.. Assets as %ofGDP .:                                      ditas %ofGDP
45
.0  Private Banla   l                                   Prtvate Baim.
60St~ate Banks                                      5       0Sat ak
;..                               ..........
-::.1991'j". 1992'  1993 ' . 1994 1-',995    1996,.  1997il "   1991 ':1992    1993-'' '.1994'" -'1995 ':,-.1996    19
1991 (Chart 2), the share of the pnivate banks has increased rapidly, leading to a sectoral
recomposition of credit in line with market signals rather than political criteria. The
availability of investment capital, however, continues to be very limnited--56 percent of the
loans are for less than 18 months. Interest rates have remained stable in nominal terms but
as inflation has fallen, real interest rates have increased somewhat (Table 1). Nevertheless,
NicaraguanI interest rates are roughly in line with the dollar equivalent rates of other
Central American countries. Reduction in interest rates will require increased efficiency
and competitiveness of the region's financial market.
Table 1 - Interest Rates 1993-97
:                                                -.-  ...  .-  :   . .... -. - . . : \ : : ::: -: .: - - : :: : ' :-::.: -.: - :~~. . . ... . .   . .   .
-  :  -   .  -   .:    .:   -   . - __     1993.. .    1994. -     1995   :    1:..996   -     .   .1997   .
Commercial Banlc Interest Rates
(annual averages)
Local Currency'
Short -Term Loans                20.2        20.1         19.9       20.7        21.0
Deposits (180 days)               13.4        13.6        13.7        14.8        14.1
Foreign Currencv
Short -Term Loans                  ..         15.2        15.5        16.9        17.6
Deposits (180  days)               5.9         6.7        7.5         8.1          8.2
Memorandum items:
CPI Inflation                           20.4        7.8         11.2        11.6         9.2
21.    Despite this progress, the financial system  is still in its infancy. Money market
fimds, leasing, commercial paper, private placement and securitization by non-bank issuers



- 8 -
are practically non-existent. The Managua Stock Exchange, opened in 1994, largely
trades Central Bank and Government paper, with only a small share of private issues, the
majority coming from one economic group. The private banking sector remains small,
undercapitalized, and with high administrative costs and lending margins. In 1996, total
equity in the banking system was only US$70 million, compared to US$178 million in
Honduras and US$512 million in El Salvador. There is a need to fill some important gaps
in the regulatory and legal framework and to limit the considerable discretion exercised
thus far in the application of norms and regulations.
Legal Framework
22.   Although the legal framework underpinning Nicaragua's financial system  has
undergone numerous changes in recent years as the Government has sought to re-establish
a modem private financial sector, a unified and clear legal structure has not yet emerged.
There are more than 12 legal sources referring to the financial system. Information is not
only spread throughout many documents, but interpretation is made difficult by major
gaps, as well as vague and sometimes contradictory definitions. For example, the recent
introduction of leasing and franchising activities has not been accompanied by the
necessary changes in the Commercial Code. As a result, leasing still requires two separate
contracts (the lease purchase option agreement and the contract to execute the sale) that
contribute to unnecessarily high transaction costs. The commercial code itself was
approved in 1904, modeled on earlier Spanish laws derived from the Napoleonic era.
There is a need for more detailed procedures for bankruptcy and corporate reorganization,
a reliable and well-indexed registry for liens on movable property and inventories, modem
patent and copyright laws, and an updated companies law.
23.   The weaknesses of the judicial system also undermine the implementation and
enforcement of commercial laws. Court dockets are overloaded, litigation can be
prolonged, and there is less than full confidence in judicial decision-making processes or
results. Concerns about judicial enforcement of contracts leads to the under-utilization of
promissory notes, mortgage agreements, conditional sales agreements, leases, letters of
credit, insurance policies and even bank checks. Real property titles remain a major
problem as the procedures established to resolve title disputes resulting from expropriation
and confiscation of real estate during the Sandinista period remain a source of insecurity.'
24.   This legal environment as well as political uncertainties in the earlier 1990s have
probably hampered foreign investment in the banking system. A recent FIAS2 study found
a confusing legal interpretation on whether foreign branches can be opened, since recent
reforms do not appear to have explicitly superseded the 1979 Bank Nationalization Law,
which expressly barred foreign branches from accepting local deposits. The considerable
A recently-approved Property Law guarantees tenure to small-scale farm and urban property owners, while setting
in place mechanisms for the legal adjudication of confiscated property and compensation mechanisms.
2Foreign Investment Advisory Service, Nicaragua: Environment for Foreign Direct Investment and Investment
Opnotunities in the Financial Sector: A Diagnostic Study. FIAS, October 1997. Washington DC.



- 9 -
discretionary powers vested in the Superintendency, in large measure to compensate for
the gaps in the legal framework, have also discouraged foreign investors. These issues in
addition to general country risk and the limited size of the local market have directed
banking foreign investment elsewhere and domestically into local banks, rather than the
establishment of foreign bank branches.
The Banking System
25.   The banking system dominates Nicaragua's financial sector. Excluding CBN, the
banking sector accounted for C$13.4 billion in assets as of September 1997 (about
US$1.4 billion, equivalent to about 75 percent of GDP). In mid 1997 state banks
accounted for 21 percent of total assets (down from nearly 95 percent in late 1991) and
private banks for 79 percent.3 Deposits in the banking sector accounted for 85 percent of
total liabilities in the financial system, of which private banks accounted for 79 percent.
State Banks. At the beginning of 1997 Nicaragua's state banking sector included two
large development banks and a small bank lending to small-scale enterprises:
. BANADES. Historically the largest of the state-owned banks, BANADES was
established in 1912 as a private bank, nationalized in 1920 and transformed in 1956
into the state development bank for the agriculture sector. During the Sandinista
administration BANADES was used to channel a wide range of subsidies to the
agriculture sector.
* BANIC. The second largest of the state-owned banks, BANIC was created as a
private bank in 1953, nationalized in 1979, and absorbed a number of nationalized
commercial banks in the 1980s. It is largely oriented toward the urban sector.
.
* Banco de Credito Popular. The smallest state bank, whose assets accounted for 2.3
percent of the banking system total in September, 1997, it lends mainly to micro and
small-scale commercial and industrial enterprises.
26.   State Bank Reforms 1991-96. To address state domination of the financial sector,
the Chamorro Government initially closed two financial institutions, and set about
reforming the remaining three, particularly BANADES and BANIC. In order to allow the
state banks to operate under the same rules as the private banks, the Government decided
to restructure them and bring their capital level in line with the norms of the
Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions (SBIF). The recapitalization
program of 1992 cost about US$240 million, complemented by major cost-reduction
programs in the banks. Nevertheless, within two years they continued to dominate the
financial system, and their situation had again deteriorated, with mounting losses and
dismal loan recovery rates. The Government did not consider that there was a sufficient
3Following completion of the BANADES reform program, the state share fell to about 13 percent by end 1997.



- 10-
national consensus to be able to close or privatize these banks. Moreover the Nicaraguan
Constitution explicitly guarantees the existence of state banking. Private banks had
emerged rapidly (there were seven by mid-1994) but they remained small and extremely
cautious in their lending. The Government therefore opted for a strategy of containment,
keeping the state banks under close monitoring while allowing private banks to grow.
BANADES and BANIC continued to face financial problems nonetheless, but this time
the Government did not recapitalize them. Instead it adopted a restructuring program
with two key aims: (i) substantially down-size BANADES, leaving it as a small
intermediary focused only on small-scale farmers; and (ii) privatize BANIC through a
capital increase from private investors, who would also gain operating control of the bank.
As a first step in the process, in early 1996 non-performing assets in the two banks (C$1.5
billion, nearly 40 percent of their portfolios) were transferred to a newly-created collection
agency (COBANICSA).   The Government also initiated measures to  down-size
BANADES and prepare BANIC for capitalization. Momentum, however, slowed as the
1996 elections approached and the restructuring plan was effectively suspended.
27.   Private Banks. Private banking has grown rapidly since its re-emergence in 1991.
There are currently 10 private commercial banks, many with well-trained and experienced
management which had practiced banking outside the country during the 1980s. Assets
total about US$1.1 billion (September 1997), with no bank accounting for more than 12
percent of the total domestic credit market. Economic recovery, high intermediation
margins, and profitable investments in public bonds have permitted private banks to
achieve annual retums in the range of 15-35 percent over the past few years (reflecting the
ratio of profits before taxes to equity of the seven largest private banks). Banking
penetration4 has been extremely low, but the number of private bank branches has been
increasing rapidly, from 42 in 1995 to 62 by September 1997 (excluding the 36 branches
obtained from BANADES). Private banks have started to lend to small borrowers and the
rural sector and by September, 1997, they represented 97 percent of private bank clients
and 27 percent of banks' portfolios. Since 1991 one bank (BECA) had to be closed and
absorbed by a larger bank, and two other banks faced difficulties which were resolved with
infusions of foreign capital. These restructurings were orderly and well handled by SBIF.
28.   However, Nicaragua's private banking sector remains fragile. The banks have
limited economies of scale and hence high administrative costs. Capitalization levels are
low. The law that allowed the establishment of private banks specified a minimum social
capital of only C$10 million (equivalent to US$2 million at the time, about US$1 million
currently).5 Initially, private banks were subject to a capital adequacy requirement of 6
4 Private banks have only recently shown interest in extending beyond the capital and other major urban centers.
This has been the result of the BANADES restructuring plan that has auctioned branches, high liquidity in the
system, and the entry into the system of two regional banking groups (from El Salvador and Guatemala/Mexico)
interested in covering small borrowers.
5 The minimum social capital has not been formally adjusted to take account of the depreciation of the c6rdoba, but
SBIF nonetheless appears to require a minimum capital of US$2 million. The last four institutions licensed in
1995 and 1996 (2 banks and 2 finance companies) had an average capital of C17.5 million as of December 1996 (a
little less than US$2 million).



- 11 -
percent, although in April 1996, SBIF approved new prudential norms in line with
international standards establishing a minimum risk-weighted capital ratio of 8 percent,
rising to 10 percent within four years. While there was an important infusion of capital
into the banks in 1997 (about US$17 million), which allowed them to meet the 8 percent
requirement, reliance is still placed on 5 year Development Bonds (BOFOS) issued by
private banks and purchased by the central bank counting as tier 2 capital.
29.    Risk-weighted capital ratios, which for the seven largest private banks averaged
8.09 percent at the end of 1996, were only 6.99 percent if only tier 1 capital is
considered.6 Deducting loan loss provisions from tier 1 capital would further lower the
average risk-weighted capital ratios of private banks. According to SBIF, private banks
face an average weighted risk in their loan portfolio of 2.04 percent.7 However, this is
likely to underestimate the risk of the loan portfolio of private banks as the published
figures represent the banks' own classification and provisioning, not the classification
made by SBIF following its most recent inspection. Accounting within banks is in line
with international standards as mandated by the SBIF through its Accounting Manual.
30.    Non-Bank Financial Institutions included until recently COBANICSA.  This
state collection agency was created in 1996 as a dependent agency of the Central Bank to
administer and liquidate the unrecoverable portfolio transferred from the state banks. Its
recoveries of unpaid debt were minimal, as threats of legal recourse against defaulters are
not credible due to weaknesses in the judiciary and legal framework, plus a tradition of
repayment forgiveness and the political context of an election year. The Government
recently terminated COBANICSA operations.
31.    Fondo Nicaraguense de Inversion (FNI) has been restructured from a state bank
into a second-tier non-bank (non-depository) financial intermediary on-lending commercial
loans and donor funds at interest rates based on the average of private bank deposit rates.
It also acts as an intermediary for donated funds for special development projects. Its
portfolio has been cleaned up twice in the 1990s. Its capital is US$52.1 million, with a
loan portfolio of US$31.8 million and investments of US$28.3 million in local private
banks. FNI has very high administrative costs and considerable liquidity as it has found it
difficult to disburse and expand lending.
32.    Capital and Insurance Markets. Money market funds, leasing, commercial paper,
private placement and securitization by non-bank issuers are practically non-existent in
Nicaragua. The Managua Stock Exchange, the newest in Central America, opened in
1994 and largely trades BCN and Government paper. The state monopoly in insurance
was eliminated in 1995 and four new insurance companies have emerged, partly or wholly
6 Tier 1 capital, or core capital, is defined as equity capital and disclosed reserves plus non-cumulative preference
shares. Tier 2 capital, or supplementary capital, consists of undisclosed or hidden reserves, revaluation reserves,
general provisions/loan loss reserves, certain equity-type hybrid instrments, and subordinate term debt.
7 Mission estimates, calculated by taking the distribution by risk category of the banks' portfolio for September 1997
published in the SBIF Bulletin and weighting it by the appropriate provisions (A by 0 percent, B by 1 percent, C by
10 percent, D by 50 percent and E by 100 percent).



- 12 -
owned by local banks, which compete with the state-owned insurance company (INISER).
In September 1997, insurance companies had assets of C$355 million (about US$36
million), of which over 60 percent were investments.
Regulatory Framework
33.   The financial system is supervised by SBIF, which was created in April 1991, and
empowered to establish regulations and norms, and license new financial intermediaries. It
has jurisdiction over the state and private banking system, the stock exchange, insurance
companies, deposit warehouses and any other activity or institution that intermediates
funds from the public, including leasing, factoring, credit cards, funeral companies and
pawn shops. Currently SBIF supervises 35 institutions, but in practice it concentrates its
efforts only on 15 entities, mainly banks. Its Executive Board is chaired by the Minister of
Economy and includes the Minister of Finance, the President of the Central Bank of
Nicaragua, a representative of the major opposition political party (Sandinista), and the
Superintendent. The term of the current Superintendent, elected by the last Congress,
expires in 1999. Seventy-five percent of SBIF's funding comes from a charge of 0.1
percent on the assets of supervised institutions and the remaining 25 percent from CBN.
34.   The banking regulatory framework is based on the principles established by the
members of the Bank for International Settlements (Basle Committee's Core Principles for
Effective Banking Supervision) and specific regulations are in line with international
standards (with the exception that no regulation exists covering loans to related parties,
i.e., insider loans). Reviews of banking supervision practice in Nicaragua have recognized
that considerable flexibility in the enforcement of regulations has been necessary to help
restore the private banking system. As the system matures, however, there is a need to
strengthen the capacity of the Superintendency and to institutionalize discretionality in
terms of involving the SBIF Council in decisions granting exemptions to regulations and
reaching agreements on plans to meet regulatory standards by individual banks.
Agricultural Credit
.. ...............35.            Nicaragua   is   emerging
from  a period of misguided
E-      Governent  ins  i
......                                           rural financial markets  that
benefited the few and hurt the
.......                          ...... ~~~~~maiority of the rural poor by
crowding out private financial
.... ......                          ~~~~~services. BANADES was the
most  imnportant  source  of
20                                ~~~~~~~~~~~agricultural credit until 1996
......          (Chart 3).  It disbursed some
.. ....              US$70 million (out of US$80



- 13 -
million in total bank credit) in 1993, but more than half of all its loans went to some 500
clients. The bank also lost an estimated average of US$50 million annually during 1991-
97 (as a result of low recovery rates). It also channeled large sums of donor funds
through many rural development projects with subsidized interest rates and contradictory
credit policies, which acted to impede the development of efficient and sustainable
financial institutions by promoting a non-repayment culture and unfair competition.
36.   Despite these deficiencies, agricultural credit has expanded, due largely to
suppliers credits, the private banks, and to a lesser extent NGOs. In 1997, agricultural
credit increased sharply, reflecting more willingness of private banks to lend to the sector,
an overall increase in liquidity, and the much reduced presence of state banks. As a result
the state bank share of agricultural bank credit has declined from 90 percent in 1993 to 19
percent in the first half of 1997. There are indications that non-bank credit (credit
cooperatives, NGOs and trade credit including agricultural input suppliers, marketing
agencies and agricultural processors) has increased substantially over the last few years.
While many micro-finance NGOs are very small and of doubtful sustainability, some are
growing rapidly and showing some indication of long-run financial viability. Credit
cooperatives, on the other hand, largely continue to be very weak because they had been
politicized by Government policies in the 1980s and, in some cases, weakened further in
the 1990s by external attempts to strengthen them through nonviable subsidized credit
mechanisms.
V. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
37.   When the current Government took office in early 1997 it faced a state banking
sector in crisis. Despite the reform efforts over the previous five years, including
downsizing, managerial changes, external technical assistance, recapitalization and two
portfolio clean-ups, the two biggest banks continued to record substantial losses due to
high administrative costs and dismal loan recovery rates.  The largest state bank,
BANADES, was effectively bankrupt, although BANIC had shown some signs of
recovery. Their mounting losses-especially BANADES-posed a serious threat to the
macro stabilization plan. Moreover, it was clear that the two banks were not performing a
development function, as their loan portfolios were concentrated on relatively larger
farners and enterprises and, despite considerable downsizing, continued to crowd out
private sector activities. The other two state financial institutions, BCP and FNI, were
also in a weak position but because of their small size posed less of an immediate problem.
Faced with this situation, the new Government set about designing and implementing a
prioritized program to reduce state banks as a source of fiscal and monetary
disequilibrium, strengthen the capacity of the authorities to regulate a growing private
financial sector, and facilitate private banking in the rural sector.



- 14 -
A. STATE BANKS
BANADES Resizing Program
38.   As of December 1996, the loan portfolio of BANADES was C$73 1 million with
increasing arrears, which had reached 37 percent by August 1997. Liabilities totaled
C$1,250 million, of which 76 percent were deposits of the public. Administrative costs
were very high compared to the volume of operations as BANADES had a headquarters
and 43 branches, with a total staff of 902. A clean up of the balance sheet and accounts in
May, 1997 reduced the capital account from C$84 million to a negative C$250 million,
confirming that BANADES was bankrupt.
39.   The Government evaluated its options and constraints. A major concern was the
constitutional provision requiring the existence of state banking which some feared could
be used to legally stop any attempt at outright privatization or closure. Secondly, the
authorities worried that rapid closure of BANADES branches would leave many isolated
areas without access to banking services as the private banking sector, although growing
rapidly, remained small, dispersed among many banks, undercapitalized and concentrated
in larger urban centers. Thirdly, there was a risk of a run on BANADES deposits which
the Government could find difficult to stem and which could create widespread opposition
to the reforms. Lastly, whatever reform option the Government adopted, it was clear it
would involve substantial retrenchment of staff, which could generate union opposition
and risk more confrontation in the highly politicized environment of the country.
40.   In May 1997, the Government appointed a new president of BANADES with the
mandate to design and carry out a major restructuring/resizing program. Supported by
technical assistance from IDA and following initial discussions with private bankers to
gauge interest, the Government decided that the best option would be to auction its
branches to the private sector. This would encourage private banks to expand into new
areas, particularly the rural sector, and ensure that the majority of BANADES depositors
retained access to banking services. Even if all branches could not be sold, the remaining
branches could be closed later or BANADES maintained as a shell unable to perform
banking functions. The existence of other state financial institutions was determined to be
sufficient to meet any constitutional requirements for a public sector presence in the
financial sector.
41.   In order to prevent a run on deposits, BANADES secured a line of credit from the
Central Bank sufficient to confront any liquidity problems. It negotiated a labor reduction
plan with severance payments exceeding the minimum required by the Labor Code with
the union representing BANADES staff. A public information campaign outlined the
bank's mounting losses (pointing out that they exceeded the budget of the Ministry of
Education), emphasized that BANADES was no longer an important source of
agricultural credit and that the sale of branches would promote competition and higher
economic growth by encouraging the private sector to expand into agricultural lending
and the provision of banking services outside major urban centers. Concurrently the



- 15 -
Government undertook to develop alternative mechanisms to encourage the expansion of
rural credit, especially directed to small-scale farmers.
The Bidding Process
42.   From the outset, and in consultation with IDA, the bidding and adjudication
process was designed to be open, fair, and transparent: (i) it would be carried out with the
participation of SBIF, the Comptroller General's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the
Central Bank, and the Office of the Vice President of Nicaragua; (ii) the opening and
adjudication of bids would take place simultaneously; and (iii) be open only to private
commercial banks that met SBIF's prudential norms. The branches were grouped into
two kinds of blocks for auction. The banks in the first group were to be sold as operating
units (including their loan portfolio rated A, B and C, real estate and buildings; and
furniture and equipment, plus all the deposits of the public) to the private bank that offered
the highest price for the assets if above a minimum price set by BANADES. The second
group covered branches where loan portfolios were basically non-existent and the private
bank that offered to pay BANADES the highest commission for the existing deposits
would buy the branch.
43.   The bidding process was carried out in six rounds-September 26, October 3,
October 14, and October 31, 1997 and January 23, and January 29, 1998. As a result all
branches have been sold, closed, or in the case of 6 small branches located in remote rural
areas, their physical assets leased to private banks (to be sold on or before May 31, 1998).
Six private banks purchased the BANADES branches (Table 2). As a consequence
BANADES has ceased to operate as a financial intermediary and by mid February it had
zero deposits from the public. In July 1997, the SBIF had issued Resolution LVI-2-97
granting BANADES an exemption regime regarding compliance with prudential norms on
capital adequacy until May 31, 1998. After this date, assuming BANADES was not in full
compliance with prudential norms, the SBIF was to have rescinded the bank's banking
license. In fact, through Resolution LXVI-1-98 of February 27, 1998 the SBIF moved
more rapidly to rescind BANADES's license and suspend its operations. The Govemment
now plans to submit legislation to formally close BANADES.
Table 2: Private Banks Purchasing or Administering BANADES Branches
(Number of branches)
BANPRO             7       0       0       0        0       0           7
CALEY-DAGNAL       3       0       1       0        0       0           4
BAMER              1       0       0       0        0       0            1
BANCAFE            1       6        1      1        7       3           19
BANEXPO            0       1       0       2        0       0           3
BANCAMPO           0       0       0       0        2       0           2
Closed             2       0       0       3        0       0           5
TOTAL            14      7        2       6        9       3          41
Source: BANADES



-16 -
44.   BANADES transferred to COBANICSA all its loans rated D and E in the
remaining portfolio. The labor reduction plan is being implemented smoothly and by mid
February, 1998, 241 employees had been directly laid-off under the plan and 510
transferred as part of the sale of branches. A preliminary estimate of the total costs
through December, 1997 yields a net capital loss to BANADES of C$765 million
including additional costs stemming from the labor reduction plan, extraordinary
administrative expenses and the payment of other liabilities to the public (Table 3).
Table 3: Results of BANADES Restructuring Program (as of February 15, 1998)
Total Original             41           710.8         915.2           921
Sold                       30           226.2        875.6            510
In Administration           6            33.6            0              0
Closed                      5                         39.6             48
Labor Reduction Plan                                                  241
Transf. to COBANICSA                    432.9
Total Restructured         41           692.7        915.2            799
Total Remaining             0            18.1            0            122
Source: BANADES and staff estimates.
BANIC Capitalization Program
45.   A  private bank nationalized in 1979, BANIC  implemented a number of
restructuring plans in the 1990s. In June 1992, the Government performed a balance sheet
clean-up and capitalized the bank setting the new capital at C$35 million and designated
the Ministry of Finance as the holder of the bank's shares. Total employment in BANIC
fell from 2,380 in 1990 to 631 in 1996. In 1996, there was another loan portfolio clean-up
by which bad loans and other assets were transferred to CBN to repay liabilities with CBN
and FNI.
46.   Although BANIC's situation had begun to improve in 1996, the previous
Administration was already considering options for privatizing the bank. As a corporation
whose shares are owned by the state, the Govermnent at the time considered two options
for BANIC-privatization through the outright sale of the State's shares or a
capitalization plan, which could involve increasing the bank's capital and attracting a
private investor as a majority shareholder, who could also manage the bank. The
Government opted for capitalization as it would provide an important infusion of fresh
private capital into the weakly-capitalized banking system.
47.   In the first nine months of 1997, the new (although still public sector) management
of BANIC launched an ambitious business plan aimed at improving profitability and
market share. On the portfolio side, the bank offered softer terms to borrowers in the
cattle sector which has been a troubled segment of BANIC's portfolio. In an attempt to
diversify its lending, it began to offer new loan products, such as Prime Rate, mortgage



- 17-
loans, student loans, vehicle loans, and loans for agricultural machinery and equipment As
a result of these efforts, the total loan portfolio increased by 37 percent in the first three
quarters of 1997. BANIC also obtained a US$30 million line of credit from US and
European banks, to be used to issue sight letters of credit, and export and coffee pre-
financing. In January 1997 the bank entered the credit card market offering BANICARD,
which is affiliated to MasterCard International and VISA International. The financial
results have been mixed. On one hand, both the loan portfolio and total deposits of the
public have substantially increased (more than 30 percent) to C$829 million and C$1,309
million respectively in the first nine months and arrears dropped from 8.4 to 4.9 percent.
A small profit of C$13.3 million is reported for 1997. However, BANIC's operating
expenses have increased in 1997, especially in its headquarters. This is a result of several
factors, including increased spending on infrastructure and equipment, the hiring of new
staff, and increased advertising expenses.
48.   The new Government, seeking to increase capitalization in the sector and reduce
the state's role in financial market operations, reconfirmed in late 1997 the plan to
capitalize BANIC through a sale of shares and has decided to seek congressional approval
for the capitalization plan. IFC has advised the Government on the capitalization plan and
has been contracted to promote and execute the bidding process. In preparation for the
capitalization effort, the Govermment has prepared draft Terms of Bidding, and BANIC
plans to complete an independent valuation of its assets by May, 1998.
49.   The draft law submitted to Congress for the capitalization plan provides that the
Government would assume liability for any legal claims arising from the nationalization of
the financial system in 1979. A complicating factor emerged in August, 1997, when a
number of external creditors filed suit in a New York court against the Government and
BANIC as an original debtor. The Government is reviewing its options and intends to
resolve these claims prior to capitalizing BANIC.
Banco de Credito Popular
50.   The SBIF has recently determined that Banco de Credito Popular (BCP) is
insolvent if obliged to make the mandatory bad loan provisions. The bank also registers
high levels of loan concentration despite its supposed focus on small creditors.
Consequently the SBIF approved Resolution LXIII-1-98 in early January, 1998 granting
BCP a special exemption regime until December 31, 1998, during which compliance with
Capital Adequacy and Classification of Risk Assets norms are suspended and the total loan
portfolio before provisioning is capped at an upper limit of US$19 million equivalent. At
the end of this period, the bank will comply with all prudential norms or the SBIF will
revoke its banking license. In the meantime the Government will review its options with
regard to Banco Popular, although it will not use public funds to recapitalize the bank in
any manner. The no recapitalization with public funds pledge also applies to FNI where
the Government has submitted legislation to permit private participation in the institution.



- 18 -
COBANICSA and Loan Recovery
51.   Given the poor perfonnance of COBANICSA in collecting on the bad loans
transferred from state banks, despite the several ad hoc decisions by the Government to
postpone the dates when agreements between COBANICSA and debtors needed to be
finalized, the authorities decided to close the collection agency. A special commission,
composed of the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank, has been established to dispose of
the loans by selling them to private banks, placing them in administration with private
collection agencies or banks (those that are being serviced), or referring them to the courts
for legal action. To strengthen the incentive for debtors to make and adhere to debt
restructuring agreements, the SBIF has issued a regulation requiring a 100 percent
provisioning on commercial bank loans to ex-COBANICSA debtors that have not signed
debt agreements or are not adhering to those agreemenits.
B. STRENGTHENING BANK SUPERVISION
52.   The SBIF focuses its supervision activities mainly on banking and to a lesser extent
the insurance system. While regulations have been issued for other intermediaries and
data is received, SBIF does not have the resources (with only 40 professional staff) to
supervise them effectively with on-site inspections and data verification. Given these
constraints and the rapid growth of banking, the Government and several international
agencies and donors (especially the IDB) have provided considerable support to
strengthening the SBIF, particularly in banking supervision, in line with Basle principles
and international standards. As part of the current adjustment effort the Government has
designed a program targeting the most pressing supervisory issues, including modifications
in the implementation of key prudential norms (plus adoption of a regulation on related
party lending), technical assistance to improve SBIF institutional capacity in general and
on-site inspection practices in particular, as well as measures to institutionalize and
regulize discretionality exercised in the enforcing of prudential regulations.  The
cumulative result of the reforms initiated will be a doubling of capital in existing private
banks as well as substantive improvements in SBIF oversight of the banking system.
53.   With support from IDA and other institutions, the SBIF reviewed its operations
during 1997. The studies revealed shortcomings in several areas, including the following:
Capital Adequacy - The current capital adequacy norm establishes a minimum risk-
weighted capital of 8 percent, which will increase to 10 percent by June 2000. This is an
appropriate step, especially given the fragility of Nicaragua's private banking sector, but
will be complicated by the additional need of many banks to replace tier 2 capital
(development bonds issued in 1993 which in 1999 become ineligible to count as capital).
Moreover, the minimum level of capital needed to start a bank has been eroded by
inflation and may be unduly small.
Evaluation and Classfication of Assets - The norm on asset valuation and classification
sets out the criteria for valuing various kinds of assets and the required provisioning.



- 19 -
While the criteria of classification is in line with Basle principles, the Superintendency has
enforced the level of provisioning with considerable discretionality.  Moreover the
required level of provisioning is low by international standards. As of December 1996,
SBIF publishes in its Bulletin an individual bank's asset distribution classified by risk, but
it is the bank's own classification, not the classification determined by the most recent
SBIF inspection, making it difficult to monitor provisions and provide early warning for
banks facing problems.
Portfolio Concentration - The prudential norm on portfolio concentration appropriately
defines the concepts to be included, such as risk exposure, and grants SBIF authority to
define connected debtors in order to apply a limit by group. However, the Banking
Reform law of June 1997 specifies that a 15 percent limit will apply to an individual and
30 percent limit to a group debtor for investment in one business or enterprise. Thus, the
limit can be avoided by a borrower if the proceeds of the loan are invested in different
businesses. Second, while the SBIF has a list of groups and their related companies, thus
far the limits have not been applied. Third, following negotiations between the banking
sector and the Government, the SBIF issued a norm on exceptions for loans above the 15
and 30 percent limit. The total amount of exceptions to be authorized was limited to 200
percent of the capital of the bank, reduced by 50 percentage points annually from June
1996. SBIF does not appear to exercise strict control on the exceptions, as it seems some
exceptions are either not authorized or it is not clear they conform to the criteria for
exemptions established in the norm.
Lending to Related Parties - The absence of a prudential norm placing limits on
individuals or groups connected with the ownership or management of a bank is a key
deficiency in the current regulatory framework. The law does not provide a legal basis for
placing specific limits on lending to related parties-only the formalities to be followed in
approving such loans are spelled out. Strengthening controls in this area would be
especially important to prevent such lending to meet the new capital adequacy standards.
Central Credit Rating Agency - A Central Credit Rating Agency is being developed by
SBIF and it commenced operations in 1997 with debt data to September 1996. The
Agency is expected to become fully operational by end-1998, but has yet to gather
information on collateral and data on older loans. One problem is that not all creditors
have a single Tax Identification Number, which requires considerable work to verify
creditor names.
Non-Profit Financial Intermediaries - The Banking Reform law requires SBIF to
supervise non-bank, non-profit financial entities, which largely represents NGOs involved
in micro-credit financing and credit cooperatives. SBIF has already decided to establish a
Microcredit Department, is in the process of recruiting staff, is receiving technical
assistance from a bilateral donor, and has elaborated a chart of accounts and is preparing
appropriate norms. Despite this progress, a number of important issues have yet to be
defined, including: (i) minimum capital requirements; (ii) whether deposit-taking
institutions will be subject to the reserve requirement; and (iii) the extent to which those



- 20 -
entities providing loans and mobilizing deposits would be subject to the same prudential
norms as commercial banks.
Discretionality - Supervision of the financial sector, but especially banking, is
characterized by the considerable and arbitrary discretion exercised by SBIF. While some
special degree of discretionality was necessary during the early 1990s, its current scope
can create inconsistent enforcement of standards and unpredictability which hampers
growth of the sector.
Bank Supervision Action Plan
54.   To strengthen the regulatory framework and institutional capacity of the SBIF, the
authorities have designed and initiated a comprehensive Bank Supervision Action Plan.
Agreed during credit negotiations (Annex C) and adopted on February 11, 1998 by the
SBIF Council, the Plan involves three components: (i) a Program of Immediate Measures;
(ii) Regulatory Strengthening; and (iii) Institutional Strengthening. Immediate measures
include: (i) completion in the near term of an assessment of the solvency of all private
commercial banks and adoption of warranted remedial actions (in conducting these
assessments the SBIF will be assisted by international experts selected with the assistance
of IDA); (ii) completion in the near term of a study, and adoption of a resulting action
plan, to improve the banking safety network addressing specifically the issues of bank exit,
crisis resolution, the structure of a Resolution Agency, and deposit insurance; and (iii)
creation of a Financial Analysis Unit within the SBIF. Regulatory strengthening will
involve adoption of a regulation on Related Party Lending in line with international
standards, as well as specific actions to reinforce the interpretation and/or enforcement of
existing regulations relating to capital adequacy risk concentration, and evaluation and
classification of assets. The level of appropriate provisioning in the latter regulation will
be determined following a review of existing international and Nicaraguan practices. This
study will be based on a detailed on-site inspection of several private commercial banks by
the SBIF, assisted by international experts selected with the assistance of IDA. The
international experts would also assist the SBIF in identifying weaknesses and formulating
a set of recommendations for an Inspection Strengthening Plan to improve inspection
processes and procedures. Finally, SBIF institutional strengthening will be promoted by
improvements in the insurance division, specific measures to strengthen on-site bank
inspections, development of the Credit Risk Evaluation Facility within the SBIF, as well as
measures to regularize the exercise of discretion by increasing the oversight role of the
SBIF Council. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the program, including
several specified key measures, will be conditions of the two floating tranche releases.
C. IMPROVING AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
55.   To expand access to financial services in rural areas, the Government is
encouraging the development of private financial services. With the state largely removed
from banking, private banks have already started to serve rural areas and will increase their



- 21 -
presence further as they lend to former BANADES clients in good standing. The strategy
to auction branches of BANADES to the private banks rather than liquidate them had as
an objective to rapidly increase private banking presence in the rural sector and in
agricultural credit. With IDA assistance, the Government provided a small subsidy for
start-up costs to establish 22 branches in rural areas (of which 12 were former BANADES
branches). The Government will also create an Agricultural Fund to rationalize donor
funded credit lines and operate as a second-tier lender to sustainable non-bank
intermediaries at market interest rates. Land titling and modernization of the registry will
be a priority to facilitate the use of land as collateral; legal and institutional reforms needed
to enable the issuance of liens on movable property and inventories will also be
introduced. Regulations will be reviewed with a view to reducing the cost of managing
small loans without increasing the risk of default. The Government will also help
disseminate successful rural lending experiences from other parts of the world, Bolivia and
Indonesia for example, so that local bankers and non-bankers can adapt those lessons to
conditions in Nicaragua.
56.   IDA is assisting the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance to develop these
initiatives through direct technical assistance and PHRD grants. To determine the current
situation of rural financial markets, IDA is supporting: (i) a rural financial module as part
of the Living Standards Measurement Survey; (ii) a stand alone survey to evaluate the
extent of bank and non-bank financial intermediation in rural areas; and (iii) an analysis of
financial sustainability of different intermediaries. To encourage rural financial services,
IDA will finance two seminars in March, 1998 targeted at bankers and non-bankers to
demonstrate the profit potential of rural financial operations and appropriate management
systems. A study to analyze how current prudential regulations impact the provision of
formal credit is currently being conducted. A major study of the legal and institutional
framework for secured transactions, which includes a draft of a new secured transaction
law, is also about to be completed. In addition IDA is assisting the Government to find
ways to reduce the risk of lending to agriculture by analyzing the feasibility of introducing
sound insurance schemes, such as private crop insurance.
57.   The lack of an inexpensive, reliable and public means of creating, perfecting and
enforcing collateral pledges against movable property (such as inventories, crops,
equipment, cattle and accounts receivable) is a major constraint on credit among
agricultural producers and marketers, as well as dealers and suppliers of farm inputs in
particular. Access to credit in Nicaragua has typically been limited to the value of real
estate a borrower with established title could pledge as collateral.  While the
Government's efforts to clarify and establish clear property titles are critical to the proper
functioning of land markets and integral to a well-functioning financial system, the
ultimate magnitude of credit that could be secured by movable property in Nicaragua is
enormous. (For example, movable assets secure about 40 percent of total credit in the
United States.) Therefore IDA has worked closely with the Government to develop a
legal framework for secured transactions that will facilitate the efficient collateralization of
movable property in Nicaragua. A law drafted in close consultation with lawyers from the
private and Government sectors and with key input from lenders, credit-sellers, borrowers



-22 -
and credit-buyers along the entire credit chain is expected to be presented to Congress
shortly.
VI. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Rationale, Size, and Tranching
58.   The proposed FSAC would support implementation of the Government's
structural adjustment program. The project aims at: (i) virtually eliminating the state
banking sector as a source of fiscal drain and financial distortion; (ii) fostering private
banking presence in the rural and agricultural sectors; and (iii) strengthening the regulatory
framework for banking. It represents a major step toward creating a sound and
sustainable financial system, but will need to be complemented by additional actions over
the next years.  A proposed Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit
(EMTAC) now under preparation would support review and reform of the legal and
regulatory framework for the financial and business sectors, as well as institutional
strengthening support for the Superintendency of Banks and other selected public
agencies. The balance of payments support provided by the FSAC would reduce fiscal
and financial pressures by compensating in part for the significant costs associated with
state banking reforms (estimated at US$80.5 million for closing BANADES taking into
account net reimbursements to depositors and severance payments to employees). No
estimates are available regarding net proceeds from the sale of BANIC shares, but are
projected to total less than US$15 million. The project and its financing plan have been
developed within the context of the Government's stabilization program being supported
by an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility program with the LMF.
59.   The SDR 51.8 million credit (US$70 million equivalent) is designed as a three
tranche operation. The first tranche of SDR 29.6 million (US$40 million equivalent)
would be available upon credit effectiveness as all conditions will be met prior to Board
Presentation of the operation. The two remaining tranches of SDR 11.1 million (US$15
million equivalent) each would not be sequential, but rather would "float" with separate
conditions. Disbursement of the "BANADES" tranche would be conditioned primarily on
the withdrawal of BANADES' operating license (accomplished on February 27, 1998)
plus satisfactory progress in the strengthening of banking system supervision.  The
"BANIC" tranche would be linked primarily to bringing that bank to the point of sale as
well as continued satisfactory implementation of the banking supervision action plan. In
addition to the actions specified below, each tranche release would be contingent on the
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework and satisfactory overall
progress in implementation of the adjustment program, as described in the attached Matrix
of Policy Actions (Annex B) and the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex
A). The Republic of Nicaragua would be the Borrower, the Ministry of Finance will be in
charge of overall implementation of the program, and disbursements will be handled by the
Central Bank.



- 23 -
Conditions for Tranche Release
60.   The following policy actions were taken before Board presentation:
(i) All BANADES branches were either closed or auctioned to private
banks, and BANADES ceased to operate as a financial intermediary;
(ii) Draft audit of BANIC 1997 financial statements was approved by
BANIC Board;
(iii) Draft legislation, acceptable to IDA, was submitted to the National
Assembly transferring claims on BANIC to the Government and
authorizing sale of shares sufficient to transfer majority control to private
concerns;
(iv) SBIF informed the commercial banks of their loan loss provisioning
obligations effective immediately in respect of loans to customers which are
also State Bank Debtors (Debtors of state banks pursuant to "CD
Superintendencia-XXIII- 1-95");
(v) Banco de Credito Popular undertook to refrain from increasing the size
of its portfolio to an amount higher than US$19 million equivalent and the
Borrower refrained from providing any cash or bond contributions for the
capitalization of Banco de Credito Popular;
(vi) SBIF Council adopted the Bank Supervision Action Plan to strengthen
supervision of banks;
(vii) SBIF established a Financial Analysis unit to assess situations of bank
solvency, propose supervision and adjustment programs, and in general
strengthen technical aspects of SBIF policies, regulations, and operations;
61.   The following actions would be BANADES tranche release conditions:
(i) SBIF shall have revoked BANADES' license to operate as a financial
institution;
(ii) SBIF shall have verified compliance by the commercial banks of their
loan loss provisioning obligations in respect of loans to customers which
are also State Bank Debtors and shall in the event of any non-compliance
apply the corresponding fines thereto;
(iii) Banco de Credito Popular shall have refrained from increasing the size
of its portfolio to an amount higher than US$19 million equivalent and the



-24 -
Borrower shall have refrained from providing any cash or bond
contributions for the capitalization of Banco de Credito Popular;
(iv)  SBIF shall have made progress, satisfactory to IDA, in the
implementation of the Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks. In
particular, the SBIF shall have:
(a) (i) finalized a diagnosis of the solvency situation of the three commercial banks
which during the period January 1, 1997 through January 31, 1998 had the highest
increase in the number of operating branches;
(ii) based on such diagnosis, instructed any bank which does not meet
SBIF's prudential regulations to take the measures that are required to
restore compliance with such regulations;
(b) adopted prudential norms, satisfactory to IDA, for related party lending and
capital adequacy; and revised the existing risk concentration prudential regulation
to set forth the provisioning requirements; and
(c) adopted the Inspection Strengthening Plan described in paragraph 54 of this
report.
62.   The following actions would be BANIC tranche release conditions:
(i) BANIC shall have brought to the point of sale to private investors
shares of its capital stock:
(a) in numbers representing a percentage of the total number of shares higher than
50; and
(b) with voting rights enabling the transfer of the management control of BANIC
to the prospective owner of such shares.
(ii) SBIF shall have verified compliance by the commercial banks of their
loan loss provisioning obligations in respect of loans to customers which
are also State Bank Debtors and shall in the event of any non-compliance
apply the corresponding fines thereto;
(iii) Banco Popular shall have refrained from increasing the size of its
portfolio to an amount higher than US$19 million equivalent and the
Borrower shall have refrained from providing any cash or bond
contributions for the capitalization of Banco Popular;



- 25 -
(iv) SBIF shall have made progress, satisfactory to IDA, in the
implementation of the Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks. In
particular, the SBIF shall have:
(a) taken the actions required in (iv) (b) of paragraph 61 on related party lending,
capital adequacy, and risk concentration norms;
(b) (i) finalized a diagnosis of the solvency situation of all commercial banks;
(ii) based on such diagnosis, instructed any bank which does not meet
SBIF's prudential regulations to take the measures that are required to
restore compliance with such regulations; and
(c) adopted a prudential regulation, satisfactory to IDA, for evaluation and
classification of assets
Procurement, Disbursements, and Audits
63.   The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon effectiveness in the
case of the first tranche, and following agreement with IDA that conditions have been met
with regard to the two additional tranches, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by IDA
into this account at the request of the Borrower. If, after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from
non-member countries, or goods or services on the standard negative list), IDA will
require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although routine audit of the account will
not be required, IDA reserves the right to require it. The closing date for the credit is
December 31, 1999. It is expected that the first tranche will be disbursed by July 1998,
the BANADES tranche by September, 1998, and the BANIC tranche by late 1998.
Relations with other Financial Organizations and Donors
64.   IDA has worked closely with the IMF and IDB to ensure consistency in the
stabilization and adjustment program agreed with the Nicaraguan authorities. The
Government's Policy Framework Paper, prepared in collaboration with the IMF and IDA,
presents the Government's medium-term reform program.  A new three-year ESAF
Arrangement is scheduled to be presented to the IMF Board on March 18, 1998, which
includes key reforms in the financial sector supported by the proposed FSAC.
65.  IDB and IDA have coordinated closely to ensure consistency in the area of state
bank reform supported by separate operations. In June 1996 the IDB approved a US$32
million quick disbursing loan to support the Government's structural adjustment program.
That loan was conditioned on adjustments in the areas of tax policy, public sector reform,
and state bank reform. Its design and conditionality were closely coordinated with IDA



-26 -
through several joint missions, and collaboration with the IDB has continued with the
conditionality in the FSAC building on the earlier IDB loan. The IDB is now considering
the preparation another quick disbursing operation to be presented by the end of calendar
1998 to support and extend financial sector reforms initiated in the FSAC.
Technical Assistance Requirements
66.   The main technical assistance provided to implement this adjustment program
include: (i) the modalities for closing BANADES; (ii) preparation of BANIC for sale; (iii)
review of options to promote rural credit, both to former small-scale borrowers of
BANADES as well as broader rural credit development; and (iv) diagnosis and
strengthening of banking supervision. Through PHRD resources IDA provided technical
assistance for the design of the BANADES closure, and fairly extensive support for
BANIC's restructuring and preparation for sale. Support for BANIC's capitalization is
now being provided by the IFC. The Technology and Land Management project (Credit
25360-NI) has provided resources for the subsidized purchase of BANADES branches in
the rural areas as well as support for the assessment and design of the Agricultural Fund.
Finally, PHRD funds financed studies of the SBIF by external experts. Immediate efforts
to assess private bank solvency and strengthen banking supervision are expected to be
financed from the IDA financed Institutional Development Project (Credit 2690-NI). The
proposed Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit now under preparation may
also support further strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks. In the past IDB and
GTZ have also provided technical assistance to the Superintendency.
Benefits and Risks
67.   Benefits. The main benefit of the program is to address major obstacles to
sustainable private sector-led growth. The reforms undertaken target the most pressing
financial sector issues, namely: resolving the long standing threats to fiscal stability and
financial markets posed by the state banks; directly promoting improved financial
intermediation with regard to the critically important rural and agricultural sectors; and
taking key steps to strengthen the regulatory framework for the financial sector. Approval
of the FSAC should enable the Government to mobilize additional balance of payments
support which would enable it to maintain a predictable and orderly economic adjustment
path. To the extent that implementation of the proposed reform program succeeds in
maintaining economic growth within a stable macroeconomic environment, the
Government would be in a stronger position to resist political pressures for more populist
and interventionist policies, or risk the real gains achieved in Nicaragua's transition to a
market economy and democracy.
68.   Risks. The proposed credit involves three major risks. First, the capitalization of
BANIC could be complicated by existing and future claims against the bank both within
and outside Nicaragua, imperiling the Government's ability to bring the bank to the point
of sale and release of the BANIC tranche. The Government has submitted legislation to



- 27 -
assume financial responsibility for those claims (which should resolve issues relating to
domestic claimants) and will seek to resolve external claims should the legislation not
prove sufficient. Second, the sale of BANIC shares, as well as the Government
assumption of claims against the bank, require congressional approval. There is always a
risk that this might not be forthcoming, but through passage of far reaching tax reform
legislation the Government has demonstrated an ability to secure necessary legislative
support for major reform legislation. Moreover, the Executive, with technical support
from IDA, has initiated a broad education campaign on the justification and nature of the
reforms supported by the credit. Third, enforcement of new or modified prudential
regulations and other key aspects of the Bank Supervision Action Plan could be
undermined by the limited institutional capacity or commitment of the SBIF and/or
resistance from the private banking sector. However, the majority of the SBIF Council,
representing the Executive Branch has demonstrated its commitment to reform in the
financial sector through actions to address BANADES and BANIC, ensured approval of
the Bank Supervision Action Plan including the expanded role for the SBIF Council, and
is welcoming various forms of technical assistance from IDA to strengthen banking
supervision. The evolution of the financial sector attending state bank reform and changes
in rural financial intermediation, plus the inadequacies identified in the bank regulatory
framework, warrant efforts to address key banking supervision issues which have been
identified now. Nicaragua's continuing need for IDA assistance in general, and in the
financial sector specifically, will provide further opportunities for support to the SBIF over
the coming years.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
69.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with IDA's Articles of
Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
April 9, 1998
Washington, D.C.



- 28 -
Annexes
Annex A    Letter of Development Policy
Annex B    Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex C    Bank Supervision Action Plan
Annex D    Nicaraguan Financial Sector



ANNEX A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY






GOBIERNO DE NICARAGUA
Ministerio de Fin anzas
ETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT
Managua, Marzo 1998



C'#iaiets*io de 62ixaxxaJ
%"Facho 2a _.aimme
Managua, March 9, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. President:
1.    I write to convey to you the structural adjustment strategy and development policies
which the Government of Nicaragua plans to implement and to request the financial support
of the International Development Association for this effort through the proposed Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit.
2.    Nicaragua is in the midst of a transition from an inefficient centrally planned
economy to one based on private sector led growth and fully integrated into the world
economy. To put the country's situation in perspective, during the 1980s Nicaragua ran up
foreign debt to a level six times GDP, and in 1990 alone registered public savings of
negative 27 percent of GDP, with public investment at only 1.5 percent of GDP. Hyper-
inflation reached 13,000 percent during 1990. As a result, per capita income fell to levels
recorded in the 1920s and the standard of living of the majority of the population declined
to poverty level. In response, the elected Government which took office in April 1990
implemented a series of stabilization and reform measures which emphasized sharply
reducing inflation, reducing the size of the public sector, liberalizing prices, and restoring
the preconditions for a market economy. Considerable progress was achieved. The public
sector was reduced in size, with nearly 350 nationalized firms returned to the private sector
and a process begun to reorient the role of Government.
3.    Despite these accomplishments, much remains to be done to ensure Nicaragua's
ability to catch up with other developing nations and to find an appropriate place in the
global economy. While war and instability are now behind us, Nicaragua must complete
the transition from a command to a market economy. Our Government, which came to
office in January 1997, is committed to achieving this objective. I believe we have already
made a sound start. The agenda ahead is an ambitious one, and includes actions to address
still high under- and unemployment, loss-making state banks, uncertainty of ownership of
urban and rural properties, and nascent and weak institutions. Unfortunately, we must
achieve this while our people continue to suffer historic levels of poverty, particularly in
rural areas.



2
C/I iu .tea Ic dc (52i,axaaJ
',spacAe  AE JfiLdtu
4.    Only by accelerating this transition can Nicaraguans expect rising standards of
living and incomes. The Government's goal, to improve greatly the lives and prospects of
its citizens, will be pursued through three major approaches. The first is to create a modem,
democratic society, within a legal and institutional framework conducive to the security of
all citizens and their possessions. The second is to use this framework to turn Nicaragua
into a vibrant market economy, with an agile private sector leading the economy in an
accelerated growth pattern. The third is to ensure Nicaragua's rural inhabitants are major
beneficiaries of this growth.
THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
5.    The economic situation of Nicaragua remains fragile and highly dependent on
concessional financing. Nicaragua's debt levels are excessive, foreign reserves are low, and
the size of the state is still large in terms of cost and mandate. This undermines savings and
investment, redirects scarce resources from their most productive potential uses, and
threatens the predictability of economic activity. Accordingly the Government has recently
elaborated with the IMF a macroeconomic program for 1998-2000 which aims to
strengthen the basis for sustained and equitable growth by consolidating the gains achieved
in macroeconomic stabilization and intensifying the process of structural reforms. The
program, to be supported by an ESAF Arrangement with the IMF, as well as the proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit from IDA, will advance further the transition to a
private sector-led and outward oriented economy, and help to move toward external
viability.
Maintaining a Stable Macroeconomic Framework
6.   The proposed macroeconomic program is outlined in the Government's three year
Policy Framework Paper. It is designed to fight poverty and reduce unemployment, restore
the sustainability of government and external finances, and implement the structural
reforms necessary to achieve sustained high rates of economic growth. The program aims
at achieving output growth of about 5 percent in 1998 rising to around 6 percent by 2000,
reducing inflation from 8 percent in 1998 to 5 percent by 2000, and increasing gross
international reserves from levels equivalent to one week of imports in late 1997 to more
than three months imports by 2000. The fiscal deficit before grants would fall from 15.5
percent of GDP in 1996 to under 4 percent in 2000. Public sector savings, during the
period, are expected to increase by 5.5 percent of GDP through: (i) a reduction in non-social
sector current expenditures; (ii) an increase in the operating surplus of state enterprises
I



3
C4' xirn%io de cL9xaxseaJ
%easacAo 2d -Aifoiae
stemming from revenue strengthening and cost containment measures; and (iii) an increase
in general revenues through a broadening of the tax base and strengthening of tax
collection. The planned privatization of public utility companies, and the debt relief which
Nicaragua hopes to achieve once it has completed the eligibility process for the HIPC
initiative, should create the fiscal space to permit an intensification of support for the social
sectors and other priority poverty-reducing development programs. Broad money will
increase in line with nominal GDP.
7.    In the medium term Nicaragua must continue to ensure a stable macroeconomic
environment, with additional progress in increasing public savings, controlling inflation,
and strengthening the country's international reserve position. There is a need to increase
the capacity of the public sector, and especially to monitor macroeconomic policy
implementation. More measures are required to build an environment attractive to private
local and international investment, to complete the process of restoring the operation of
property markets based on a respect for property rights, and to address the looming
problems of the under funded national pension system.
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTM[ENT PROGRAM
Reforming the Public Banking Sector
8.    To permit a sustained expansion in market investment and activity to support higher
growth and employment generation, Nicaragua needs a sound financial system. The
Government therefore has designed and initiated implementation of a phased program of
financial sector reform. The most immediate requirements for the first phase are to
eliminate the misallocation of financial resources caused by an inefficient state banking
system, and to strengthen the public sector's capacity to assure an appropriate framework
for the private banking system. To this end the Goverm-nent intends to sharply reduce the
state banking sector by selling to the private sector a controlling interest in one state bank
(BANIC), limiting the operations of a second smaller state bank (BCP), and ensuring the
sound operation of a second-tier financial institution (FNI) which mobilizes financing for
on-lending to commercial banks and other private financial intermediaries. In addition the
Government is taking steps to cease the banking function of the largest state bank
(BANADES). To improve overall financial sector performance and achieve a sound
deepening of financial intermediation, the Government will strengthen its regulation and
supervision of the private banking sector.



4
OfikiJtelio de Cgyazaxia
C'14'i2iC40i a' 94 r,ea
%aspaeAe ~d ...tii,te
9.    Despite a major recapitalization in 1992 of the largest state bank, BANADES, and
serious efforts to revitalize the bank, it has not been possible to improve its performance in
a satisfactory manner. The bank has continued to incur large financial losses with negative
implications for the Government's fiscal position, and without yielding significant benefits
to the poor. Moreover, its weak loan recovery record (due to a general culture of
nonpayment to state banks induced by the history of high inflation and frequent
restructuring or forgiveness of loans) has undermined the proper functioning of the
financial system more generally, with the result that the private banking sector has been
reluctant to move aggressively to meet credit demands, particularly in the non-urban areas.
10.   To eliminate the risk to fiscal stability and growth, and to facilitate the expansion of
credit in the rural areas, the government has decided to end BANADES' role in financial
intermediation, by transferring the bulk of BANADES' assets and all deposits to the private
banking sector through a transparent system of auctions. Presently all branches of
BANADES have been transferred or closed and the remaining skeletal headquarters
operation does not intermediate credit. We expect that BANADES' license to conduct
business will be withdrawn by mid-1998, in line with Superintendency of Banks Resolution
LVI-2-97 of July, 1997. As BANADES has not in fact provided much credit in rural areas,
the government is simultaneously developing alternative instruments to address the needs
of this clientele. The objective is to rely on commercial bank branches, cooperatives, and
specialized NGOs, utilizing the best practices in this area, to meet credit needs of the rural
poor without distorting the growth of private banking services and resource mobilization.
11.   The second largest state bank, BANIC, suffered from similar difficulties in loan
repayment and has required two major recapitalizations to bring it into line with prudential
norms. While BANIC's performance has improved over the last two years, its financial
situation remains fragile. Moreover, the Government fears that without a change in
ownership structure and incentives, the bank ultimately would fall back into the more
normal poor performance pattern of state banks. The Government, therefore, intends to
capitalize BANIC, believing the bank would better serve the needs of Nicaragua with an
infusion of private capital and operation under private management. Legislation is being
presented to the National Assembly to authorize the sale of newly issued shares for the
purpose of attracting new (private) resources and management, in order to strengthen the
financial position of the bank as well as increase competitiveness in the entire banking
sector.  The legislation would also permit the Government to assume the financial
responsibility for any claims by former owners against BANIC. The new shares to be sold



5
- C4'idxiutio dc15    rxa
Swopae R   _3d. oAiN
will exceed in value and voting power the shares retained by the Government; the plan is to
sell a controlling group of these new shares to the highest evaluated private bidder, whether
domestic or foreign. An invitation to bid offer to the private sector will be widely
published in financial journals in the Western Hemisphere and Europe, and we expect to
complete the bidding process by the third quarter of 1998, with the assistance of the
International Finance Corporation of the World Bank Group.
12.   Given the present situation of the small state-owned Banco de Credito Popular
(BCP), SBIF has granted this bank an exceptional supervision regime until the end of 1998.
If after that period BCP does not comply with all prudential norms the exceptional
supervision regime will not be extended and the SBIF will revoke the authorization of
Banco Popular to operate. The Government is committed to maintain the current policy of
not providing any infusions of cash or bonds from the Government to recapitalize this
institution. The Government plans to strengthen the operations of the second-tier
Nicaraguan Investment Fund (FNI), and for this purpose has presented to the National
Assembly legislation that would permit private sector participation in it. In any case, it is
our policy to ensure both that FNI on-lends resources to private financial institutions at
market rates of interest and that it maintains a positive return on equity.
13.   Non-performing loans of the state banks have been transferred over the last few
years to a Collection Agency (COBANICSA) created in 1996 and charged with loan
recovery. A system of incentives and-penalties was established to encourage repayment by
the borrowers of these non-performing loans. However, loan recovery has remained
disappointingly slow and the Government has therefore decided to dissolve COBANICSA
and to create instead a commission of the Central Bank and Ministry of Finance which will
decide, on a case by case basis, to place these debts in administration, auction them to
private banks, or institute recovery procedures in the courts. The Superintendency of Banks
will also ensure through its regular supervision efforts that a 100 percent provisioning
requirement will apply to all loans by any Nicaraguan bank to any debtor of the former
COBANICSA who does not have, or is not adhering to, a debt repayment agreement with
the Agency or otherwise not meeting the terms of the debtor's loan.



6
G4i,igztc,i dcs c7ntaaaa
9Wupache 2d ...tiide
Strengthening Supervision of the Financial Sector
14.   A second key component of the first phase of the financial sector reform program
involves implementing a comprehensive action plan to strengthen banking supervision.
While there were none in 1990, now there are ten private banks that account for over
seventy percent of financial assets in the sector. Prudential norms to establish limits on
exemptions to individual lending limits, and modify regulations regarding asset
classification and provisioning, and loan concentration have been issued to increase the
safety and solvency of the banking sector. The Superintendency of Banks has also
established a debtor reporting system to routinely share with all banks the classification of
debtors. This system is being automated and we expect it to be on-line within a few
months. Yet capitalization of some of the private banks remains low and measures are
needed to ensure that Nicaragua's banking sector meets global standards for safety and
security especially given the rapid expansion of private banking in Nicaragua. Therefore
the Superintendency is initiating a detailed action program including measures to assess the
performance of the banking sector, refine the regulatory framework as appropriate, and
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Superintendency. During 1998 we intend to
issue new or revised prudential norms relating to capital adequacy, risk concentration,
lending to related parties, and the evaluation and classification of assets, and provisioning
requirements.
15.   With these reforms we believe the path will be open to significantly increase the
scope and depth of the financial sector in Nicaragua. Continued vigilance, however, is
needed to ensure that the state banking system is operating in a sound manner, and that
public and private institutions are addressing adequately the needs of small borrowers in
rural areas. To further service this market, Nicaragua will need to establish under a second
phase of the financial sector reform program an appropriate framework for the operation of
non-bank private rural financial institutions. To increase national savings in general,
comprehensive and coherent programs to promote and appropriately regulate a securities
market and the insurance industry are also a priority for the next two years. This
Government will take measures to strengthen the social security system and has initiated
studies of options for a major reform of that system, including the introduction of a private
pension system where individuals have greater responsibility for pension fund investment
decisions under appropriate regulatory oversight by the public sector. The Government
intends to undertake a full assessment of the legal framework of the financial sector to
determine the need for new legislation.



ow                       ~~~~~~~~7
CltIsdxiio  l a'ecixaxaza
CONCLUSIONS
16.   It is our belief that over the last seven years Nicaragua has made major progress
toward reestablishing macroeconomic stability and laying the basis for sustained, market
based economic growth and social progress. These advances are even more remarkable
given that Nicaragua simultaneously was successfully pursuing policies of demobilization
and democratization. Over the last year, the Administration of President Arnoldo Aleman
has intensified the pace of reform with the passage of major legislation relating to taxes,
foreign trade, and property rights; by making significant improvements in fiscal and
monetary performance; and by initiating an important restructuring of the central
government. We have also implemented far reaching reforms in state banking. Nicaragua
has counted on the strong support of the World Bank over the last few years, and request
your continued financial and technical assistance. There is no viable alternative to
continued redimensioning of the size and responsibilities of the public sector in order to
expand the scope for sustainable private sector led growth.  The reform  of the
Govermment's role in the financial sector, involving a reduction in any direct operational
role simultaneous with a strengthening of its regulatory capacity, is fully in line with the
type of transformation that we are seeking.
M Ministro de Finanzus
/ stebaluu   srd
M Miiter of Finance



< .-z . .,a  ,.,             .,,,,,;;.......  ........... ,, :: .. z j 
,Z:,.,Z,i,i:    :    i i:iii   i   iiiii?iii,ii.ii       .lii    :::isiiiiii:    ,ii   :  iiii                             .i  i.   '^is  ziii':ii.''.n.                       ii.iii...ii.iiii.ii.
az,s    .ziii;.-ii   ii   iiiiii    ii>4siV:.. Dii     iiii  iiSi.i   iii:: i                       i      ii   i   iiiii   a.i: iie   i,... ...........  .   ....i i  iiv,  i-.    iZ,iZNiii
... ......... iiiki                          iiiii.,,ii                     iii, ii:,,                       i        ii      iiiiis             ii        >ziiii:iiii               iiii'>S,:.i    iiij                         ii           ;i,i.
,         ..........ii.iiiij          ji,i,iiiii,iiiiiiiii.f;                                     zi         Ez    iiii,iS ziiiiziSia::i                                     iii E        ii:i           iiiiiio                 iisi< ii. ii
-       .. .....  .  ....   iSiii              tA iii    i   iiiiiii   iii..                       ii.     -iii    i   i       a        izlii   zisiiaiai:   : iii .   iiiiiiii    iiiiiiiivz:,iS
..........iii*i.,iii%"i'ii                                     iii.i    i'i,i;'i..                            i    iii        ii   Z ii.i   iiiii9$i   iiiiiiiiai                                      g iii    iiiii.a    .                          i''ii
..... . D iiiiii.i...                iiiiiiiiiii,                                         i       i    ii    i         iiS        i                     i    i     i                       i              ii             s     gEi                                      iE        i
,:gii;iiaiaiiiiii    iaiY '>                   zai:i           ii     iiiiiiiiiii..aiiii, 'iiiiiiiiia                                       iii iZsii..,.iii,i.....  ......ii''i'iii    i''iii'i                                                        ia.
z.z           ......'......ioi .iiiii              t,iiiiiiii iiiisiiii,. i   ii    ii    iiiiz.i: ii.iia.s   iS                                                                 iiiiiii!             .e>.ziiiEii
i:,g i   . :.i' :-.!:.!!::: ::iiiii:i:.: ................ ii.i.i.i.Z ..Z I .%  iiii i.i.iiiA.............  si,i,.,,i,i .i ii ,iiiiii i:iiii iii:.i'iiii ;5iziiiiii r ii.ii.i ...........................................,. i .G . .,'.,.
. .ii  .       .  i5 .       !! .       ! ii:::    .i                  . .  iiiiiiii:   :ii .ii ii  . ..ii:i: iia                                                 .Z:5,zz.,E               iiSiii          izi       iii   ii:ii:i:!:i'
iaiiG  i:i,,:ii    ,i:!i:iEiiiii    i iiiisai!  !,i,SE!;,!  i.  i.!i   Eiiii!i'ii!i,  Eii, iiiiiz4i :!i .g5-iii!!!  iiiTii:iia  iiiii5igiiii:iziiiz1,.i  5iiii  iiiiiii ZAi   iiaviiiS  .jia:iiiiiii5.i.i......i.i . .



Annex B: Nicaragua--Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Ensure an appropriate        Maintain supportive             Maintain supportive              Maintain supportive macroeconomic
macroeconomic framework.     macroeconomic framework.        macroeconomic framework.         framework.
All BANADES branches have been  SBIF shall have revoked
either closed or auctioned to   BANADES' license to operate as a
private banks, and BANADES has  financial institution.
ceased to operate as a financial
intermediary.
Draft audit of BANIC 1997                                        A majority of BANIC shares (with
financial statements approved by                                 management control) has been
BANIC Board.                                                     brought to the point of sale to the
private sector.
Draft legislation, acceptable to
IDA, submitted to the National
Assembly transferring claims on
BANIC to the Government and
authorizing sale of shares sufficient
to transfer majority control to
i private concerns.



Annex B: Nicaragua--Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
-I .... .....  ..*..**.**..... *.
SBIF shall have informed the      SBIF shall have verified compliance   SBIF shall have verified compliance
commercial banks of their loan loss   by the commercial banks of their  by the commercial banks of their
provisioning obligations effective  loan loss provisioning obligations in  loan loss provisioning obligations in
immediately in respect of loans to  respect of loans to customers which  respect of loans to customers which
customers which are also State Bank  are also State Bank Debtors and  are also State Bank Debtors and
Debtors.                          shall in the event of any non-     shall in the event of any non-
compliance apply the corresponding   compliance apply the corresponding
fines thereto.                    fines thereto.
Banco Popular shall have refrained    Banco Popular shall have refrained    Banco Popular shall have refrained
from increasing the size of its   from increasing the size of its    from increasing the size of its
portfolio to an amount higher than    portfolio to an amount higher than    portfolio to an amount higher than
US$19 million equivalent and the  US$19 million equivalent and the   US$19 million equivalent and the
Borrower shall have refrained from    Borrower shall have refrained from    Borrower shall have refrained from
providing any cash transfers or bonds  providing any cash transfers or  providing any cash transfers or bonds
for the capitalization of Banco   bonds for the capitalization of Banco  for the capitalization of Banco
Popular.                          Popular.                           Popular.
SBIF Council shall have adopted the   SBIF shall have made progress,  SBIF shall have made progress,
Bank Supervision Action Plan to   satisfactory to IDA, in the        satisfactory to IDA, in the
strengthen supervision of banks.  implementation of the Bank         implementation of the Bank
Supervision Action Plan, including in  Supervision Action Plan, including in
particular, the SBIF shall have:  particular, the SBIF shall have:
1 Debtors of state banks pursuant to "CD Superintendencia-XXXIII- 1-95



SBIF shall have established a      (a) (i) finalized a diagnostic of the    (a) (i) finalized a diagnostic of the
Financial Analysis unit to assess  solvency situation of the three     solvency situation of all commercial
situations of bank solvency, propose  commercial banks which during the   banks;
supervision and adjustment         period January 1, 1997 through
programs, and in general strengthen   January 31, 1998 had the largest
technical aspects of SBIF policies,    increase in the number of operating
regulations, and operations.       branches;
(ii) based on such diagnostic,     (ii) based on such diagnostic,
instructed any of the banks which do  instructed any of the banks which do
not meet SBIF solvency regulations   not meet SBIF's solvency
to take the measures necessary to  regulations to take the measures
restore compliance with such       necessary to restore compliance with
regulations;                       such regulations;
(b) adopted prudential regulations,   (b) adopted a prudential regulation,
satisfactory to IDA, for capital   satisfactory to IDA, for evaluation
adequacy and related party lending,   and classification of assets, including
and revised existing risk          provisioning requirements;
concentration prudential regulations
to set forth the required
provisioning; and
(c) adopted the Inspection         (c) completed a study of options and
Strengthening Plan for the following  recommendations for bank exit, crisis
12 months, acceptable to IDA, to   resolution, structure of resolution
strengthen on-site inspections of  agencies, and deposit insurance, and
commercial banks.                  approved action plan to strengthen
the banking safety network.



ANNEX C
BANK SUPERVISION
ACTION PLAN






ANNEX C: BANK SUPERVISION ACTION PLAN
The Nicaraguan banking system is evolving rapidly with the growth of private banking and
restructuring of the state banking system. In line with its responsibility for ensuring an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the sound operation of the banking
system, the SBIF Council has adopted this Action Plan to strengthen the policies and
institutional capacity of the SBIF to oversee the banking system to IDA's satisfaction and
will take all necessary steps to implement the following measures within the deadlines
specified:
I. PROGRAM OF IMMEDIATE MEASURES
1. Diagnosis of bank solvency
a) Establish a Financial Analysis Unit within the SBIF with sufficient staff to assess
situations of bank insolvency, propose supervision and adjustment programs and in general
strengthen technical aspects of SBIF policies, regulations, and operations (February 13,
1998).
b) SBIF will initiate (March 1, 1998) a diagnosis of the solvency of all private commercial
banks and, based on such diagnosis, instruct any bank which does not meet SBIF's
prudential regulations to take the measures that are required to restore compliance with
such regulations.
2. Strengthening banking safety network
a) Complete a study of options with recommendations for bank exit, crisis resolution,
structure of Resolution Agencies, and deposit insurance (September 30, 1998). SBIF
Council will review and approve an action plan to strengthen the banking safety network
(December 15, 1998).



2
II. REGULATORY STRENGTHENING
3. Market access and licensing
Issue a new prudential norm on market access and licensing by May 15,1998, including
the following:
a) minimum capital requirements for new commercial bank licenses set at US$2 million
equivalent;
b) minimum capital for all Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries set at 50% or more of the
commercial banks requirements.
c) information requirements regarding the ultimate origin of capital and eligibility
requirements for managers, directors and owners, to be applied upon change of bank
management or ownership, in compliance with the existing legislation;
d) the formal administrative process for opening and closing branches (eliminating any
requirement for a feasibility study to open branches);
e) an increase in the maximum penalty for non-compliance with SBIF regulations to the
maximum allowed by current legislation.
4. Capital adequacy
Issue new prudential norm on capital adequacy by May 15, 1998, which will:
a) mandate the use of an international rating agency satisfactory to IDA for rating foreign
banks and weighing the investments of the Nicaraguan banks in foreign institutions. The
assets not rated by this international rating agency will be weighted at 100% for the
purpose of calculating capital adequacy.
b) prohibit banks from giving loans directly or through foreign connected institutions to
the bank's shareholders for capital increase.
c) exclude pending provisions from equity in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio
and for any other established limits;
d) define and establish permanently the components of TIER I and TIER II capital;
e) provide for the establishment of a progressive schedule to comply with legislated capital
adequacy ratios of 8% in 1998 and 10% in 2000; SBIF will establish an adjustment plan
for each bank that does not comply.
f) exclude by June, 1999 Development Bonds of less than 5 years maturity from capital.
No new issues of this kind of bonds will be considered suitable as a component of tier II.
g) establish that loans guaranteed by other banks should be weighted at 100% for the
purpose of calculating capital adequacy unless the guarantor bank is in full compliance
with the SBIF prudential regulations; in which case the loan will be weighted at 50%.



3
5. Evaluation and classification of assets
a) By appointment of the SBIF Council, a study will be carried out to evaluate the assets
classification process and the level of provisioning, in order to improve the respective
prudential norm.
The SBIF should:
i) in consultation with IDA, select a sample of banks to be inspected according to the
attached guidelines, with the assistance of international experts selected in consultation
with IDA. To perform the study, the SBIF will grant the expert team access to all relevant
information;
ii) implement the special on-site inspections with the participation of the international
expert team, to evaluate the assets portfolio and review the quality of credit risk policies,
classification procedures and control systems of the selected banks;
iii) develop a time series analysis of the credit repayment behavior of groups of debtors
for each category of assets classification in order to compare the final recovery rates with
the current level of provisioning;
iv) based on the above analysis, propose an amendment to the prudential norm which
would improve the classification criteria and increase the required levels of provisioning;
b) in consultation with IDA, adopt as appropriate any proposed amendments by July 15,
1998 and make them effective not later than June 1999.
6. Risk Concentration
a) By May 15, 1998, the SBIF will produce quarterly reports on the progressive
elimination of risk concentration limit exceptions, to be completely eliminated by June
2000.
b) The SBIF will issue an amendment to the prudential norm on concentration of risks by
May 15, 1998 establishing 100% provisions for loans above the risk concentration limit.
7. Related party lending
Issue a prudential norm to restrict bank transactions with related parties by May 15, 1998
that will be effective by January 1, 2000 including the following:
a) a definition of related parties, as by ownership, management, or familial relation to
management and shareholders.
b) a limit on total transactions with related parties of less than 50% of the bank's equity in
aggregate.
c) a requirement of 100% provisioning for transactions exceeding this limit, except in the
event that there is an adjustment plan approved by the SBIF Council and the institution is
in compliance with the plan.



4
m. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
8. Structure of the SBIF
a) Strengthen the capacity of the insurance division to effectively supervise the insurance
sector (July 15, 1998).
b) Adopt and initiate a program (May 15, 1998 ) to strengthen and extend on-site bank
inspections including:
1) increasing the review of individual loans to at least 50% of the bank's total loan
portfolio;
2) an assessment of repossessed collateral (Bienes Adjudicados), fixed assets, the
investment portfolio and, in particular, assets held by off-shore institutions;
3) a review of the risk concentration of the bank's portfolio;
4) an extrapolation of the average risk ratio resulting from the sample of assets
reviewed to the entire loan portfolio; and
5) the prompt and timely submission of inspection results to the SBIF Council with
recommendations for action.
c) Complete development of the Credit Risk Evaluation Facility within the SBIF, to
provide full and immediate access to this data to all financial intermediaries. (September
15, 1998)



ANNEX C: BANK SUPERVISION ACTION PLAN
ATTACHMENT 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR A STUDY ON THE EVALUATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF
BANK ASSETS IN NICARAGUA
INTRODUCTION
The Nicaraguan banking system is evolving rapidly with the growth of private banking and
restructuring of the state banking system. In line with its responsibility for ensuring an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the sound operation of the banking system,
the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBIF) Council has adopted these
Terms of Reference according to the attached Action Plan to strengthen the policies and
institutional capacity of the SBIF to oversee the banking system and to take all necessary
steps for a better supervision of the Nicaraguan banking system. As part of this Plan there
is a need to evaluate the credit risk measuring mechanisms currently applied in Nicaragua.
For this purpose, the SBIF Council has commissioned a study that will be carried out to
evaluate the banks asset classification process and the level of provisioning with the
assistance of international experts selected in consultation with IDA, in order to improve
the respective prudential norm. The objective, activities and expected results of the study
are described below.
OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY
To evaluate the bank's current asset risk classification process and provisioning levels and
from this evaluation, formulate proposals and amend the respective prudential norm
accordingly.
ACTIVITIES OF THE STUDY
i) In consultation with IDA, select a sample of at least three banks to be inspected. The
criteria to select the banks will be based on size, diversification of the loan portfolio, and
targeted economic sector;
ii) Implementation of special on-site inspections assisted by an international expert team,
selected in consultation with IDA, to evaluate the assets portfolio and review the quality of
credit risk policies, classification procedures and control systems of the selected banks;
iii) Development of a time series analysis of the credit repayment behavior of groups of
debtors for each category of assets classification in order to compare the final recovery
rates obtained with the current level of provisioning;
iv) Based on the above analysis, formulate a proposal for an amendment to the prudential
norm which would improve the classification criteria and increase the required levels of
provisioning.



Assisted Examinations
In order to carry out the inspections the SBIF will be assisted on-site by Expert Bank
Examiners (EBE) to reinforce the Teams of Inspectors (TOI) that will be in charge of
conducting such inspections. The work of the selected EBEs will be conducted in three
phases, as follows:
The first phase will consist of a review of the planning and preparatory work for bank
examinations as they are currently being conducted, and preparing the work plan to
conduct the special inspections with the SBIF technical staff --expected duration of one
week;
The second phase will consist in an active collaboration in on-site inspections with the TOI
assigned to each of the banks. -expected duration of about three to six weeks;
The third phase will consist in supporting the SBIF in the preparation of the report
elaborating upon the results of the bank inspections. --expected duration of about two
weeks.
Phase One:  Review of the plans for the examination
During this phase, the EBE will familiarize themselves with the profile and features of the
targeted banks and their related parties. They will also proceed to review the plans
developed by the SBIF to carry out full scope examinations of the targeted institutions.
The EBE will evaluate and suggest changes as appropriate in the following:
1) The latest SBIF report(s) or summary analysis available for the banks inspected,
including:
a) financial performance analysis;
b) profile of lending portfolio -- as per the information available from the credit risk bureau
-- and investment portfolio;
c) relevant communications between SBIF and the board and senior management of the
bank;
d) key results and conclusions reached by SBIF as per previous examinations conducted of
the bank;
e) significant existing risk positions.
2) The current structure and organization of the bank and its ownership and management;
and the information available to SBIF regarding related parties of both major shareholders
controlling the bank and of directors and key senior managers.
3) Existing recent audit reports, and reports and conclusions reached by SBIF following
meetings with external auditors for their review, eventually including that of the working
papers of the audit.



Based on the conclusions reached during the review as per the paragraphs above, the EBE
will evaluate SBIF procedures and plans for examinations and whether there is a need to
change them.
The parameters or elements which the EBE will evaluate, among others, are as follows:
a) the letter first requesting information addressed to the bank's board;
b) the management representation letter requested at the inception of the examination;
c) the timing, objectives and scope of the review of the banks;
d) the timing and duration estimated for the examination;
e) the profile and composition of the examination team;
f) the scope, extension, objectives, and special procedures planned;
f) the distribution of tasks and the possibility of using complementary methods for assessing
banks --e.g., increase reliance on external auditors or ad-hoc diagnostics to be requested.
During this phase the EBE will be granted access to all relevant information and materials
considered necessary to the examination, as regards related interests between the banks and
their major shareholders, directors and senior management who might have a significant
control, or be in the position to exert control, whether in Nicaragua or abroad.
Phase Two:  Support during the examination
In this phase, the EBE will be actively involved in supporting the TOI's work in areas like
the evaluation of the loan, trading and investment portfolio, and other risk activities: non-
performing assets, real estate owned and repossessed, other assets and items pending from
conciliation, guarantees and other off balance sheet activities like fiduciary activities, money
desk operations, and sale of credit assets with or without recourse to the bank, the
accuracy of earnings reported, and the evaluation and effect upon net worth and earnings;
and intra-group transactions among related and affiliated parties to the bank, as well as the
overall management performance of the bank.
Phase Three: Reporting and Recommendations for Actions and Follow Up
During this phase the EBE will help the SBIF prepare summary reports of the examinations
of each bank, a draft presentation of the report to the respective Board of Directors, and
recommendations whether formal enforcement actions are required. The EBE will also
provide support in preparing a set of financial simulations with the probable evolution of
the bank's position without additional support from its shareholders or significant
restructuring and reorganization actions. Also, based on the results of those simulations,
the EBE will support the SBIF in evaluating the impact of alternative measures to be
presented to the board of the inspected bank in terms of strengthening its financial position.



Finally, the EBE, based on the findings of the overall findings of the special inspections
performed, will formulate recommendations on S1BIF inspection mechanisms and
procedures, including proposals to amend the prudential norm on asset classification.
Time series analysis
For the development of a time series analysis of the credit recovery rates obtained from
debtors, the EBE will take a sample of a number of debtors and their loans, distributed by
their initial category of classification made by the bank, from the same sample of banks
selected for the assisted inspections, with a record of classification in the last two years and
on which the SBIF has information, in order to compare the banks' initial classification
with the resulting repayment behavior, as a mechanism to check if the current scale of
provisioning is a reasonable a priori proxy to the real credit risk of these debtors and their
loans. The study will also include an analysis of the classification of debtors over time as
made by the banks, as compared with the classification made by the SBIF.
Based on the findings of these exercises, the EBE will propose an adjustment to the current
percentages of provisioning by asset classification category.
FINAL PRODUCTS OF THE STUDY
The study will result in a report to be submitted to the SBIF Council and satisfactory to
IDA that will include:
a) The findings on current asset risk classification process and on-site inspection
procedures - identifying weaknesses and formulating a set of recommendations to be
adopted by the SBIF to strengthen these processes and procedures;
b) The findings on the time series analysis and the proposed adjustments to the current
percentages of provisioning; and
c) Draft proposals for amendments to the corresponding prudential norm.



ANNEX D
NICARAGUAN FINANCLIL SECTOR






Annex D: Nicaragua's Financial Sector
A. Introduction
1.     By the late 1970s, Nicaragua had one of the more developed financial systems in Central Amenca
with a mix of public, private and subsidiaries of foreign banks providing a wide range of financial services.
However, after taking power in July 1979, the Sandinista administration dismantled Nicaragua's private
financial system-all private banks were nationalized, control of state bank operations was transferred to a
holding company (which evolved into the Corporaci6n Financiera de Nicaragua, CORFIN), and the
number of financial institutions was reduced to five: (BANADES-Banco Nacional de Desarrollo; BANIC-
Banco Nicaragaiense de Industria y Comercio; BCP-Banco de Credito Popular; BIN-Banco
Inmobiliarilo; and, FNI-Fondo Nicaragaiense de Inversi6n). Myriad subsidies and the use of the banking
system to pursue political objectives completely undermiined the loan repayment culture in Nicaragua.
2.     In 1991, the Chamorro Government initiated a comprehensive stabilization and reform program to
correct major macroeconomic imbalances and transform Nicaragua from a centrally planned to a market
economy. Reform of the state banking system and encouragement of a dynamic and efficient private
financial sector were among the key objectives. lnitially, the Government tried to restructure the state banks
and reduce their size, requiring them both to compete with the emerging private banking sector and to
perform development banking functions. Banking supervision and regulation were introduced, interest rate
and credit controls were eliminated, an inter-bank foreign exchange market was established, exchange
restrictions were phased out and the exchange rate was unified in January, 1996. These reforms, together
with rising private capital inflows and economic recovery since 1994, have resulted in a substantial
deepening of financial intermediation and improved allocation of financial resources.
B. Overview of the Financial System
.. ...... ...    . .  .......3.  Nicaragua's   financial   system
............                                  has experienced a spectacular growth
so. ......=.......                                  since     1991,    but    remains
underdeveloped.   The  system  has
A--l   LO¢,curren,Depok  1 --- --- -------------  - - gained depth as indicated by the rise in
the ratio of liquid liabilities of financial
-S ---  /t   /   l intermediaries (M3) to GDP which is
.. .... . ............ . ......... .. ...........  l now   comparable  to  the  level  observed
:  -.           - '  ,t               lin middle-income countries.  Growth
.........................- 3 ..0 _ .-       has been mainly in dollar denominated
deposits (Chart 1), increasing  the
..... .Ddollarization process that first emerged
.....____ _. _ -  as a response to the hyperiflation of
1990-91.    The  share  of  dollar
denominated financial savings increased from 29 percent in 1991 to 63 percent in 1997. Effective
dollarization is higher still, since practically all cordoba denominated financial assets and liabilities, except
sight deposits, include a "maintenance of value" provision indexing the rate of return in local currency to
the official exchange rate. Thus, despite relatively stable macroeconomic and financial conditions in recent
years and the unification of the exchange rate market, the market has continued to express a strong
preference for dollar or dollar-indexed transactions.



-2 -
4.      The allocation of financial resources has improved significantly. The share of state bank in total
private sector credit has declined steadily since 1991 (Chart 2), and the decline accelerated in 1996 with the
.,, :, , ^ ..,............... .   ............ .. .   .........,.........,,,.....
....:... Pr -vae   ..an ......       4     0                                    . Pr.at  B  ..    . . .......aub
A, i 0{                  ,{_ Stat Dau                        OftaeBa
:*~1  E  1    - .. :  1:   0.................... ..... ..................                          ..  . : :.:. 
Transfer of the non-performing assets of the state banks to a collection agency (described below). At the
same time, the private sector portfolio of the private banks has increased rapidly from zero to 28 percent of
GuDP in just 6 years. This has led to a sectoral recomposition of credit in line with market signals rather
than political criteria. The availability of investment capital, lhowever, continues to be very linited: 56
percent of the loans are for less than 18 months. Interest rates lhave remained stable in nominal terms but
as inflation has fallen, real interest rates have increased somewhat (Table 1). Nevertheless, interest rates in
Nicaragua are roughly in line with the dollar equivalent rates1 of other Central American countries (Chart
3). Reduction in interest rates will require increased efficiency and competitiveness of the region's
financial market.
T able 1 - Interest Rates 1993-97
g~ ~               1993       1994       1995       19-6       199
Commercial Bank Interest Rates
(annual averages)
Local Currencv'
Short -Term Loans              20.2       20.1        19.9       20.7       21.0
Deposits (180 days)             13.4       13.6       13.7       14.8       14.1
Foreign Currencv
Short -Term Loans               ..        15.2        15.5       16.9       17.6
Deposits (180 days)             5.9        6.7        7.5         8.1        8.2
Memorandum items:
CPI Inflation                        20.4        7.8        11.2       11.6       9.2
' Before indexation to the exchange rate.
Source: Central Bank of Nicaragua.
1~~
In Nicaragua, interests rates quoted on domestic transactions are dollar-equivalent, as they are indexed to the
exchange rate. For other countries in Central America, the ex-post dollar-equivalent rates presented in Chart 3
were calculated my deflating the nominal interest rate by the rate of exchange rate depreciation.



- 3 -
5.     Despite remarkable progress, the financial system is still in its infancy. State banks continue to
control an important share of the financial sector and their performance is poor. The private banking sector
remains  small,  undercapitalized,  and  with  high
~ ]    ~'   ~              administrative costs and lending margins. In 1996, total
-  __c.__:_____      -------_--_-    equity in the bankng system was only US$70 million,
compared to US$178 million in Honduras and US$512
-ISdY~dOf *    ,                         million in El Salvador. On the supervision side, the legal
-famework for the banking sector is broadly appropriate,
but there is a need to fill some important gaps and limit
a)ep ef t(I)    the considerable discretion exercised thus far in the
ii¢, ~~~~~~~~appl,ication of norms and regulations. Money market
funds, leasing, commercial paper, private placement and
securitization by non-bank issuers are practically non-
existent. The Managua Stock Exchange, opened in 1994, largely trades Central Bank and Government
paper, with only a small share of private issues, the majority coming from one economic group.
C. Monetary Policies
6.     Since 1991 the Central Bank of Nicaragua's (CBN) efforts to conduct prudent monetary policies
have been undermined by financial difficulties of the state-owned banks, fiscal weakness and instability of
external flows. The Central Bank Law approved in 1992 placed stringent conditions on CBN financing of
the Government and the financial system. Nevertheless, central bank credit expanded considerably during
1992-94 and the early part of 1995, as the CBN continued to provide financing to the state banking system
and the Government did not service its debt with the CBN. In late 1995, credit policies were tightened as
the CBN discontinued all lines of credit to the state banks; the placemnent of open market paper was
intensified and external aid recovered. Prudent policies continued into March 1996 but a weakened fiscal
position and a decline in state bank deposits in the Central Bank led again to an expansion in net domestic
assets in 1996. The CBN's credit stance in 1997 was weakened by a major debt forgiveness granted to
debtors of the largest state bank (BANADES), virtually eliminating state bank repayments to the CBN
(compared to expected repayments of 1.5 percent of GDP). Thus, completing the reforms of the state
banks is critical to the sustained implementation of sound monetary policies. The scope for active
monetary policy, however, will continue to be limited by dollarization and the losses of the CBN. The
latter stem from payments of foreign exchange obligations by the CBN, exchange losses and high cost of
open market operations.
7.     As part of the reform process, the CBN has liberalized the financial system from direct controls
and introduced indirect monetary policy instruments. Nicaragua has phased out credit controls, directed
credit and floor rates on savings accounts. Interest rates are market determined and the authorities are
laying the foundations for liquidity management through open market operations. Central Bank monetary
intervention relies largely on reserve requirements and open market operations-mainly the placement of
negotiable investment certificates (CENIS) in domestic currency (with maintenance of value). Until early
1996, reserve requirements varied by instrument, currency denomination (25 percent requirement on
foreign currency deposits and 15 percent on c6rdoba deposits) and maturity (c6rdoba deposits with over
one year maturity had no reserve requirement). Only deposits held with BCN were eligible and c6rdoba
reserves were marginally remunerated.2 In May 1996, CBN eliminated the reserve requirement for deposits
2Remuneration accrued daily at 16 percent annual rate on one third of the requiremnent, provided full requirement was met on
that day.



-4 -
of more than one year in order to stimulate the absorption of longer-term funds, which resulted in a rapid
shift to term deposits slightly over one year. In November 1997, CBN unified reserve requlrements at 17
percent and eliminated remuneration on local deposits as well as the exemption for deposits of over one
year, and extended reserve requirements to Repo operations and commercial paper of over one year. The
net effect of these changes was to increase the reserve requirement by 2 percentage points. This measure is
expected to reduce volatility in the deposit base and absorb liquidity, but it will also have a negative impact
on the profitability of the banking system.
8.     During 1996-97 the CBN intensified its use of open market operations to sterilize pressures on its
credit and international reserves position. The CBN first issued CENIS in 1995. By 1996, the outstanding
stock of CENIS was only US$69 million, but by the end of 1997 it had jumped to US$255 million.3 With
respect to the system to issue CENIS, up to June 1997 CENTS were available on demand at fixed interest
rates to individuals and commercial banks through direct sales by CBN, or through placement in the stock
exchange with yields on the 360-day CENIs hovering around 25 percent before indexation in 1996. The
authorities have recently replaced the system with an auction system where the quantity of CENIS offered
is based on the need to sterilize excess liquidity and the interest rate is determined at auction. The interest
rate on 360-day CENIS has declined to approximately 11 percent before indexation (January 1998). In
1998 the CBN plans to reduce the stock of CENIS by the equivalent of approximately 2.5 percent of GDP
and to place CENIS only when needed to sterilize excess liquidity.
D. Legal Framework
9.     The legal framework underpinning Nicaragua's financial system has undergone numerous changes
in recent years, as the Government has sought to re-establish a modem private financial sector. The
changes, however, have not resulted in a unified and clear legal framework. Today, there are more than 12
legal sources referring to the financial system. Information is not only spread throughout many documents,
but interpretation is made difficult by major vacuums, as well as vague and sometimes contradictory
definitions. For example, the recent introduction of leasing and franchising activities has not been
accompanied by the necessary changes in the Commercial Code. As a result, leasing still requires two
separate contracts (the lease purchase option agreement and the contract to execute the sale) that contribute
to unnecessarily high transaction costs.
10.    More broadly, the general weaknesses of the judiciary and legal system for business transactions
constrain the efficient development of financial markets. Implementation and enforcement of commercial
laws is hampered by weaknesses and lack of confidence in the court system. Dockets are overloaded,
decisions are delayed and litigation can be prolonged for unpredictable periods. The failings of the legal
system are exacerbated by disputes involving real property titles. Although a considerable effort has been
made to regularize property rights, the procedures established to resolve title disputes resulting from
expropriation and confiscation of real estate during the Sandinista period remain a source of insecurity.4 In
addition, the growing unreliability of title registers appears to be of particular concem. Over and above the
efficiency of the court system, there is a need to modernize the whole legal framework. Legal certainty
would be increased with a modem commercial code (the current laws date back to 1904), a more detailed
3MTis figure includes US$65 million issued to cover the net negative worth of BANADES branches sold to the private
sector, and US$75 million issued in a special operation with Lehman Brothers.
4A recently-approved Property Law guarantees tenure to small-scale farm and urban property owners, while setting in place
mechanisms for the legal adjudication of confiscated property and compensation mechanisms.



- 5 -
procedure for bankruptcy and corporate reorganization, a reliable and well-indexed registry for liens on
movable property and inventories, modem patent and copyright laws, and an updated companues law.
E. Structure of the Financial System
11.   At present, Nicaragua's financial system consists of 10 private commercial banks, 3 state-owned
development banks, 2 private finance companies, 1 state-owned investment fund, 1 state-owned and 4
private insurance companies, 7 private deposit warehouses, 1 stock exchange with 13 registered brokerage
houses (11 active), and numerous small, non-profit financial intermediaries (credit unions, NGOs).
Activity in the stock exchange, which is just three years old, is limited to the public sector or to the issuance
of short-term paper by corporations.
12.    The financial system is supervised by SBIF (Superintendencia de Bancos y Otras Instituciones
Financieras), created in April, 1991 and empowered to establish regulations and norms, and license new
financial intermediaries.5 Its Executive Board is presided by the Minister of Economy and includes the
Minister of Finance, the President of CBN, a representative of the political party that came in second in the
last general elections, and the Superintendent. The Superintendent and the Deputy-Superintendent are
elected by Congress from a list submitted by the Executive for a 4 year term with possible re-election.
SBIF has jurisdiction over the state and private banking system, the stock exchange, insurance companies,
deposit warehouses and any other activity or institution that intermediates funds from the public, including
leasing, factoring, credit cards, funeral companies and pawn shops. The recently approved Law 244 will
bring non-bank, non-profit intermediaries within SBIF supervision. Currently SBIF supervises 35
institutions, but in practice concentrates efforts only on 15 entities, mainly banks. Seventy-five percent of
SBIF's funding comes from a charge of 0.1 percent on the assets of supervised institutions and the
remaining 25 percent from CBN.
The Banking System
13.    The banking system dominates Nicaragua's financial sector. Excluding CBN, the banking sector
accounted for C$13.4 billion in assets as of September 1997 (about US$1.4 billion, equivalent to about 75
percent of GDP). State banks accounted for 21 percent of total assets (down from nearly 95 percent in late
1991) and private banks for 79 percent.6 Deposits in the banking sector account for 85 percent of total
liabilities in the financial system, of which private banks accounted for 79 percent. Nicaragua's banking
system is poorly capitalized, with high intermediation margins and administrative costs-the result of a
system that is growing and expanding geographically (private banks) and the inefficiencies of the still-large
state banking sector. The financial sector reforms planned for 1998-99, supported by the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC), will strengthen the private banking system and reduce state bank participation.
5SBIF's legal mandate also covers supervision of the Central Bank. The regulatory framework is discussed in greater detail in
the last section of this annex.
6Following completion of the BANADES reform program, the state share is estimated to have fallen to about 13 percent by
end-1997, though these figures are not yet available from the SBIF.



-6 -
State Banks
14.   Nicaragua has three development banks:
* BANADES. Historically the largest of the state-owned banks, BANADES was established in 1912 as
a private bank, it was nationalized in 1920 and in 1956 transformed into the state development bank for
the agriculture sector. During the Sandinista administration, BANADES was used to channel a wide
range of subsidies to the agriculture sector.
*  BANIC. The second largest of the state-owned banks, BANIC was created in 1953 and nationalized in
1979. In the 1980s BANIC absorbed a number of nationalized commercial banks, and is largely
oriented toward the urban sector.
*  Banco de Credito Popular (BCP). BCP is the smallest state bank, with assets of 2.3 percent of the
banking system total in September 1997, lending mainly to small-scale commercial and industrial
enterprises.
State Bank Reforms, 1991-97
15.   To address the state domination of the financial sector inherited from the Sandinista era, the
Chamorro Government closed CORFIN and BIN, and set about reforming the remaining state banks,
focusing particularly on the two largest, BANADES and BANIC. With the aim of having the state banks
operate under the same rules as the private banks, the Government restructured them and brought their
capital in line with SBIF norms. In June 1992, the Government bought their non-performing loans with
long-term bonds, which the state banks used to repay CBN. The recapitalization program is estimated to
have cost about US$240 million. The state banks undertook a major cost-reduction program, substantially
reducing branches and staff. Despite these efforts, two years later the two largest banks continued to
dominate the financial system, and their situation had again deteriorated, with mounting losses and dismal
loan recovery rates.
16.   Despite the poor performance of the state banks and the threat their mounting losses posed to the
stabilization program, the Government concluded that there was not a sufficient consensus either to close or
privatize them. Private banks had emerged rapidly (there were seven by mid-1994), but they were still
small (Chart 2) and extremely cautious in their lending. Instead it opted for a containment strategy,
keeping the state banks under close monitoring while allowing private banks to grow. As private banking
expanded, the Government expected that state banks would become increasingly marginal, eventually
making it politically easier to close or privatize them. It aimed to avoid further recapitalization through
public funds or revaluation of assets, subjecting state banks to prudential regulations and requiring them to
shift their larger more-established clients to the private banking system. However, BANADES and BANIC
continued to have serious loan recovery problems. External audits confirmed that loan-loss provisioning
would make them effectively insolvent, but since neither the option of recapitalization or liquidation was
open, SBIF exempted the two banks from prudential norms for two and a half years. At the same time, the
Govermnent adopted a restructuring program that sought to go beyond the containment strategy, with two
key aims: (i) substantial down-sizing of BANADES, leaving it as a very small intermediary focused only
on small-scale farmers; and (ii) privatizing BANIC, not by selling its assets but rather through a capital
increase from private investors who would also gain operating control of the bank. As a first step in the
process, in early 1996 non-perfonning assets in the two banks (C$1.5 billion, nearly 40 percent of their
portfolios) were transferred to a newly-created collection agency (COBANICSA).



- 7 -
17.    In 1997, when the new administration took office, the two largest state banks, BANADES and
BANIC, continued to face severe financial difficulties. It was clear that BANADES was not fulfilling its
mandate to serve small producers; its clientele had fallen to 8,250 borrowers, of which only 630 held more
than half of all loans (Chart 4). Credit recoveries continued to be dismal and the annual operating costs
. ......       :.:CW4- PortolioDstiibutio-ioftheDangSedor
..ans orL~2,OOG .orless'                           Loans (eater than I2,UOO            1
1Z-                     : :        J              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~314 1m- 
.-- . ...   - .----.-----j24 E!-:. ......  ...... ..  ..   .....  ... . ......  ;3   Su   ...   ....    ... ....l
:,'",---- 4---------6,C ---  ...  ..... i- :    --.....   ---- --- --';'----1 
-..: AD1.::-.-::o-:. :- ..:-:.-..:: -                 0.
.- .
wvere excessive in relation to the volume of operations.  BANIC  had made progress in reducin
a                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~pm
administrative costs but continued to face loan recovery problems. Furthermore, its loan portfolio was
highly concentrated, about 314 clients held more tha  80 percent of its loans.  By mid-1997, after
evaluating a number of options for a major reforin of BANADES, the Government decided that the best
option was to auction BANADES branches to the private sector and once it was reduced to a shell, to
.vithdraw its banking license. At present, all BANADES branches have been either closed, sold, or
transfeffed (FSAC Board Presentation condition). For BANIC, the Government decided to continue with
the capitalization plan set out by the previous administration (BANIC tranche release condition of FSAC).
wrivate Banks
18.    Private banking has grown rapidly since its re-emergence in 1991.7 There are currently 10 private
commercial banks with assets totaling about US$1.1 billion (September 1997). Economic recovery, high
intermediation margins, and highly toface lnvery poublic bonds have pe,nitted porvate banks to
achieve annual retuds in the range of 15-35 percent over the past few years (reflecting the ratio of profits
before taxes to equity of the seven largest private banks). Despite the relatively large number of private
banks in a country of 4.6 million people, until recently banking penetration was extremely low. 8  The
number of private bank branches has been increasing rapidly, from 42 in 1995 to 62 by September 1997
(excluding the 36 branches obtained from BANADES), but have been largely confined to Managua. Also,
private banks have started to lend to small boudowers; by September 1997, these prlesented 97 percent of
private bank clients and 27 percent of riin  its reemrg 4         ing  the  short period in which private
baris havn we-emerged, one bank had to be closed and absorbed by a larger bank, and two other banks
faced difficulties which were resolved with infusions of foreign capital. These restructurings were orderly
and well handled by SBIF.
7 bhe first private bank was established in August 199 1.
8 Private banks have only recently shown interest in extending beyond the capital and other major urban centers. This has been
the result of the BANADES restrucaing plan that has auctioned branches, high liquidity in the system, and the entry into
the system of tsto regional baning groups (from  El Salvador and GuatemalabMexico) interested in covering small
borrowers.



- 8 -
Table 2- Capital Adequacy of the Banking System - Dec. 1997
_  0    -   j  |   7 -7  - - l-t  t -  7 7   - 750 i; |0000 tt tt-State   Banks   0000000000Piv"ate  Banks  l-:::  :-:::Tota -
Overdue Loans/Total Loans (%/o)                     3.4                   1.7                 2.0
Provisions/Overdue Loans (%)                      193.1                 131.5               149.7
Tier 1 Capital (US$ millions)                      10.7                  55.7                66.3
Tier 2 Capital ($US millions)                        0                   22.5                22.5
Total Capital/Weighted assets (%)                   7.4                  10.9                10.3
Source: SBIF, Central Bank of Nicaragua.
19.    Despite rapid growth, Nicaragua's private banking sector remains fragile. Total assets are low and
diffused among 10 small commercial banks, none of which accounts for more than 12 percent of the total
domestic credit market. Private banks have limited economies of scale and hence high administrative costs.
The fragility of existing banks is not fully reflected in the official figures, as reported in Table 2. While
total capital for private banks as a percent of weighted assets appears adequate at nearly 11 percent, as do
capital provisions as a percent of overdue loans (149.7 percent), these figures are somewhat misleading due
to the poor classification of loans and the inclusion of Development Bonds (BOFOS) as a significant
portion of the banks' capital.9 Nicaragua's banking system needs a sizable infusion of capital as low
capitalization restricts the growth of the system and weakens its ability to deal with cyclical downturns and
shocks.
20.    The law that allowed the establishment of private banks specified a minimum social capital of only
C$10 million (equivalent to US$2 million at the time, about US$1 million currently).10 Initially, private
banks were subject to a capital adequacy requirement of 6 percent, but in April 1996, SBIF approved new
prudential norns establishing a minimum risk-weighted capital ratio of 8 percent, rising to 10 percent
within four years. At the same time, SBIF established that BOFOS issued by private banks and purchased
by CBN could count as tier 2 capital provided they were for longer than 5 years. This caused some
problems for private banks which held large amounts of BOFOS under 5 years. Following a negotiation
with SBIF, it was agreed that BOFOS below 5 years would count as secondary capital for a two year
period, provided private banks would raise additional capital for the same amount. As a result, during the
first half of 1997, there was an important infusion of capital in Nicaraguan banks (about US$17 million),
which allowed private banks to meet the 8 percent requirement." 
21.    The fragility of private banks is also reflected in their low risk-weighted capital ratios, which for
the seven largest private banks averaged 8.09 percent at the end of 1996, but 6.99 percent if only tier 1
9 BOFOS were issued by banks between 1993 and 1995 and purchased by CBN as a way of providing refinancing to
investment projects. BOFOS, however, do not conforn to Basle definitions of tier 2 capital.
The minimum social capital has not been formally adjusted to take accoaunt of the depreciation of the c6rdoba, but SBIF
nonetheless appears to require a minimum capital of US$2 million. The last four institutions licensed in 1995 and 1996 (2
banks and 2 finance companies) had an average capital of C17.5 million as of December 1996 (a little less than US$2
million).
As discussed subsequently, due to the absence of norms on lending to related parties, it is not possible to estimate how much
of this increase was an infusion of fresh capital.



- 9 -
capital is considered.'2 Deducting loan loss provisions from tier 1 capital would further lower the average
risk-weighted capital ratios of private banks. According to SBIF, private banks face an average weighted
risk in their loan portfolio of 2.04 percent.13 However, this is likely to underestimate the nrsk of the loan
portfolio of private banks because the published figures represent the banks' own classification and
provisioning, not the classification made by SBIF following its most recent inspection.
Non-Bank Financial Institutions
22.    Fondo Nicaragiaense de Inversion (FNI): In 1993, FNI was restructured into a second-tier non-
bank (non-depository) financial intermediary and its portfolio cleaned up. A large part of FNI's financial
activity, however, continued to involve refinancing of the three state banks. In 1996, the Government
carried out a second portfolio restructuring exercise, transferring 75 percent of FNI's portfolio to
COBANICSA. FNI, with capital of US$52.1 million, 4 has a loan portfolio of US$31.8 rnillion and
investments of US$28.3 million, the latter placed in local private banks. FNI has very high administrative
costs and considerable liquidity as it has found it difficult to expand lending. FNI sets loan interest rates
based on the average of private bank deposit rates, which at a time of high liquidity in the system appears
to make these lines of credit unattractive to private banks. As of September 1997, FNI was reported to
have more than US$20 million in donor funds which it was unable to place with private banks.
23.    The Government is considering a number of options to reform FNI. It plans to convert FNI into a
limited liability company with private participation.  It would remain as a second-tier institution,
complementing the private financial sector, especially in helping to stimulate capital markets. The reform
proposals have generated much debate and key issues renmain unresolved. These include the extent of state
ownership, the autonomy of its Board of Directors and management, especially independence from political
influence, and the possible equity participation of bilateral donors.
24.    COBANICSA:  The collection agency COBANICSA  (Cobranzas de Nicaragua Sociedad
An6nima) was created in 1996 as a dependent agency of the Central Bank to administer and liquidate the
unrecoverable portfolio transferred from the state banks. Debtors in the COBANICSA portfolio were
offered advantageous conditions to liquidate, renegotiate or restructure their debt numerous tirnes, creating
incentives for delinquent borrowers not to repay on the expectation that even more favorable terms or
complete debt forgiveness would be offered eventually. Weaknesses in the judiciary and legal framework
also hindered COBANICSA's loan recovery efforts, as threats of legal recourse against defaulters are not
credible. COBANICSA had made four attempts to sell restructured debt to private banks but received no
offers. The lack of interest was a result of the problems mentioned above but also because the implicit
discounts on the debt offered by COBANICSA were lower than those offered to the debtors themselves.
Given the poor performance of COBANICSA in collecting bad debts, the authorities decided to close it. In
lieu of COBANICSA, a special commission composed of the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank has
been established to dispose of the loans by selling them to private banks, placing them in administration
with private agencies or banks, or referring them to court for legal action. To improve loan recovery, the
12 Tier 1 capital, or core capital, is defined as equity capital and disclosed reserves plus non-cumulative preference shares. Tier
2 capital, or supplementary capital, consists of undisclosed or hidden reserves, revaluation reserves, general provisions/loan
loss reserves, certain equity-type hybrid instrments, and subordinate term debt.
13 Mission estimates, calculated by taking the distribution by risk category of the banks' portfolio for September 1997
published in the SBIF Bulletin and weighting it by the appropriate provisions (A by 0 percent, B by 1 percent, C by 10
percent, D by 50 percent and E by 100 percent).
About half of this capital is constituted by a promissory note from the Ministry of Finance to issue bonds.



- 10-
SBIF has issued regulations requiring a 100 percent provisioning on commercial bank loans to ex-
COBANICSA debtors that have not signed debt agreements or are not adhering to those agreements (Board
Presentation condition of FSAC).
Capital Markets
25.    Money market funds, leasing, commercial paper, privaite placement and securitization by non-bank
issuers are practically non-existent in Nicaragua. The Managua Stock Exchange, the newest in Central
America, opened in 1994. As of mid 1997, 13 brokerage houses were registered, 8 of which were partially
or wholly owned by local private banks. The Exchange largely trades CBN and Government paper, with
only a small share of private issues, the majority coming from one economic group. The main instruments
traded are Government CENIS, which provide domestic financing of the fiscal deficit, and Compensation
Bonds issued by the Government to settle property disputes. As of 1996, the total volume of equities and
bonds negotiated on the local capital market reached only US$320 million, with about 70 percent of the
total transactions concentrated in Government bonds. Over 40 percent of transactions in the stock exchange
have less than 30 days maturity.
The Insurance Market
26.    The state monopoly in insurance was abolished in June, 1995 (Law 227). Since then, 4 new
insurance companies have emerged, partly or wholly owned by local banks, which compete with the state-
owned insurance company (INSER). As of September 1997, insurance companies had assets of C355
million (about US$36 million), of which over 60 percent were investments. INSER accounts for 82 percent
of assets in the insurance sector. Insurance companies require a minimum capital of CI0 million and thus
far have only issued general insurance policies. Foreign companies are not permitted to open branches but
can participate in the market by investing in local companies, the purchase of local companies or full
incorporation in Nicaragua.
F. Agricultural Credit
27.    Nicaragua is currently emerging from a period of misguided Government interventions in rural
financial markets that benefited a few and hurt the majority of the rural poor by crowding out private
-  financial  services.     Until  1996,
ChartS- Crdit Disbrsenxihent to gri tS to  .. ........BANADES was the most important
......                              ~~~~~~~~source    Of   agricultural   credit,
i00000000000000140-l                                  . 40j0jlj  disbursing some US$70 million per
year in 1993 and generating losses
estimated at US$50 million per year on
~~~ 100 ~~~~~~~~~average during 1991-97.  More tha
so00 t; _, _ S _ M  _  _  t t half of all BANADES loans were r
...........-                         ~~~~~the hands of some 500 clients.  In
so~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .   . .   . . . .
.............. .. ............    -addition, the Government channeled
............... -:: -::     :::::::::::::::: :.:large   sums   of  donor   funds   through
-j-j-j:0:0igfg:  t:.:00.' .0.g.f.'S.,,..i-S . ..g....00S  .0.S.  ..........  .... ..
.......-..........   ........ ......-  ........... ...many   projects   (rural   development
.. ..... ..0 ..  ........... .. .. .. ........ . ..... ..projects)     with    often  contradictory
.19..93..                1.4  . 9 . .9. . .                credit policies at subsidized interest
rates.  These policies impeded the development of efficient and sustainable financial institutions by
promoting a non-repayment culture and unfair competition.



- 11 -
28.    Despite prevailing deficiencies, agricultural credit has expanded. The main sources of growth have
been suppliers credits, the private banks and to a lesser extent NGOs. Total banking sector credit remained
fairly constant until 1996, reflecting a rise in credit from private banks that more than fully offset the
decline in credit from BANADES (Chart 5). In 1997, agricultural credit appears to have increased
sharply, reflecting more willingness of private banks to lend to the sector and an overall increase in
liquidity. State banks' share of bank credit to agriculture has declined from 90 percent in 1993 to 19
percent in the first half of 1997. Although accurate figures are not available, there are clear indications
(Chart 6) that non-bank credit (credit cooperatives, NGOs and trade credit, i.e., agricultural input
suppliers, marketing agencies and agricultural
--  Chart 6- Credit Flows Premniancintg aiidTop Five  processors) has increased substantially over the
NGO-                          last few years. This has been possible in large
-50 .  s  El Pre-financing                        part because non-bank intermediaries are much
120 -      Top FiveNCOs                           less hindered by inadequacies in Nicaragua's
0  1997 data for top five NO s  of Jun  .  .     legal and regulatory infrastructure than private
banks, which rely more heavily on formal
mechanisms to facilitate loan recovery. While
30     . .   -   .. -    .!           1 - -    . -.- =   many micro-finance NGOs are very small and
0                                                of doubtful sustainability, some are growing
1993    1994  -1995s -   1996    1997*      rapidly and showing some indication of long-
run financial viability. Credit cooperatives, on
the other hand, largely continue to be very
weak because they had been politicized by Govermment policies in the 1980s and, in some cases, weakened
firther in the 1990s by external attempts to strengthen them through nonviable subsidized credit
mechanisms. Agricultural trade credit is playing a large and growing role, supporting a marked expansion
of agricultural exports.
29.    To expand access to financial services in rural areas, the Government will remove the state from
banking in general and rural banking in particular, and will encourage the development of private financial
services. Private banks have already started to serve rural areas and will increase their presence further as
they lend to former BANADES clients in good standing. With IDA assistance, the Government has
provided a small subsidy for start-up costs to establish 22 branches in rural areas (of which 12 correspond
to former BANADES branches). The Government will create an Agricultural Fund that will rationalize
donor funded credit lines and operate as a second-tier lender to sustainable non-bank intermediaries at
market interest rates. Land titling and modernization of the registry will be a priority to facilitate the use of
land as collateral; legal and institutional reforns needed to enable the issuance of liens on movable property
and inventories will also be introduced. Regulations will be reviewed with a view to reducing the cost of
managing small loans without increasing the risk of default. The Government will also help disseminate
successful rural lending experiences from other parts of the world, Bolivia and Indonesia for example, so
that local bankers and non-bankers can adapt those lessons to conditions in Nicaragua.
30.    IDA is supporting the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance to develop these initiatives through
direct technical assistance and PHRD grants. To determine the current situation of rural financial
markets, IDA is supporting a rural financial module as part of the Living Standards Measurement Survey
and a stand alone survey to evaluate the extent of bank and non-bank financial intermediation in rural areas
and financial sustainability of different intermediaries are being carried out. To encourage rural financing
services, IDA will finance two seminars in March targeted at bankers and non-bankers to demonstrate the
profit potential of rural financial operations and appropriate management systems. A study to analyze
how current prudential regulations impact the provision of formal credit is currently being conducted, also
a major study of the legal and institutions framework for secured transactions, which includes a draft of a



- 12 -
new secured transaction law, is about to be completed. IDA is also helping the Government find ways to
reduce the risk of lending to agriculture by analyzing the feasibility of introducing sound insurance
schemes, such as private crop insurance.
G. Foreign Investment in the Financial Sector
31.    The Government has an interest in attracting foreign direct investment in the banking sector, im
order to improve the efficiency of the sector and thus reduce the cost of credit to local firms. In addition,
foreign capital will be needed to privatize state banking. However, a foreign investor contemplating entry
into Nicaragua's financial sector faces numerous obstacles. A major challenge is the unstable and unclear
legal framework which creates confusion for potential investors. The inherent fragility of the banking
system also represents an important risk as it raises concerns among investors over the ability to deal with
cyclical downturns or major shocks to the system. In addition, the attraction to foreign investors is also
reduced by a number of more general problems, including general country risk, the lack of a well
functioning legal structure for business transactions, the weak enforcement of laws and contracts, the
absence of a good accounting framework, and the limited size of the local market.
32.    As discussed earlier, the lack of a unified and clear legal framework is a major weakness in
Nicaragua's financial system. A major concern for foreign investors is whether they can open a branch in
the country and accept local deposits. A recent study on the foreign investment environment in Nicaragua
by FIAS,15 found a confusing legal interpretation on whether foreign branches can be opened, since recent
reforms do not appear to have explicitly superseded the 1979 Bank Nationalization Law, which expressly
barred foreign branches from accepting local deposits. The considerable discretionary powers vested in
SBIF, in large measure to compensate for the gaps in the legal framework, discourage foreign investors.
For example, although the issue was not regulated explicitly by Law 125, the Superintendency has
prohibited the establishment of foreign banking representative offices in the country, even though these are
generally used as a first point of entry by a foreign bank. Reform of the entire financial (and commercial)
legal framework is expected to be supported by a separate project supported by IDA.
H. Regulatory Framework
33.    The regulatory framework for the Nicaraguan banking system is established in three key laws: (i)
the 1963 Law on Banks and Other Financial Institutions; (ii) Law 125, which created the SBIF in 1991;
and (iii) and Law 244 of 1997, amending the 1963 Law on Banks and Other Financial Institutions. In
addition, there are more than 12 legal sources referring to the financial sector, which in some cases are
contradictory and their interpretation varies according to vague definitions. To imnprove the regulatory
framework of the banking system and the country's institutional capacity to supervise the banking sector,
the Government has adopted a Bank Supervision Action Plan which will be supported by the FSAC (Annex
C).
Supervisory Scope and Capacity
34.   In practice, SBIF supervision focuses mainly on the banking system and, to a lesser extent, the
insurance system. While regulations have been issued for other intermediaries and data is received, SBIF
does not have the resources to supervise them effectively with on-site inspections and data verification.
SBIF has a staff of 80, of which half are involved in supervision and the other half in support functions.
15 Foreign Investment Advisory Service, Nicaragua: Environment for Foreign Direct Investment and Investment Opportunities
in the Financial Sector: A Dia2nostic Study. FIAS, October 1997. Washington DC.



- 13 -
35.    With respect to insurance, SBIF limits itself to off-site supervision, reviewing financial statements
and authorizing insurance policy contracts. It has recently issued a set of insurance norms, but does not
have the staff or experience to monitor them effectively. Currently, SBIF has almost no capacity to
supervise capital markets, for which the regulatory framework has yet to be established. International
experience suggests that the possibility of creating a specialized agency to supervise the stock exchange
should be explored. Since SBIF has not built up its capacity in this area, there would be considerable
advantages to establishing a separate supervisory entity that could be built up and strengthened gradually.
Also, alternative mechanisms should be considered to streamline SBIF's formal supervisory responsibility,
for example through truth-in-lending legislation to cover other institutions that provide credit such as pawn
shops and funeral companies.
Capital Adequacy
36.    The current capital adequacy norm establishes a minimum risk-weighted capital of 8 percent,
which will increase to 10 percent by June 2000. While this is an appropriate step, given the fragility of
Nicaragua's private banking sector, SBIF has not proposed or requested that banks present capitalization
plans or schedules to meet the 10 percent requirement. To avoid eventual pressures to weaken or postpone
the new capital adequacy norm, SBIF will discuss with banks a timetable for phasing in this new
requirement. This is especially important because by mid-1999, almost the total volume of the BOFOS
(currently counted as tier 2 capital) will have come due, making it even harder for private banks to increase
their capital. Similarly, the capital adequacy norm does not stipulate convertibility conditions for
subordinate debt categorized as tier 2 capital. There is also a need to supplement the current regulation by
clarifying the conditions under which the issuance of subordinated obligations can be treated as capital.
Some banks have proposed increasing their capital by reinvesting profits, but SBIF maintains profits must
first be distributed and thus taxed. In addition, banks have not been allowed by SBIF to issue shares in the
16
stock market, on the grounds that they are not rated by a reputable international rating agency.  The Bank
Supervision Action Plan approved by the SBIF Council will produce improvements in the capital adequacy
norm.
Lending to Related Parties
37.    The absence of a prudential norm placing limits on individuals or groups connected through the
ownership or management of a bank is a key deficiency in the current regulatory framework. The law does
not provide a legal basis for placing specific limits on lending to related parties-only the formalities to be
followed in approving such loans are spelled out. Issuance of such a norm is strongly resisted by bankers
as it would affect many domestic interests and would have implications for the capitalization of banks. The
latter occurs because, without limits on lending to related parties, a bank can lend to its own shareholders
which can then use the loan proceeds to increase the capital of the bank. Under the Bank Supervision
Action Plan, the Govemment is committed to issue such norm by May 15, 1998, to become effective by
January 1, 2000.
Asset Valuation and Classification
38.    The norm on asset valuation and classification adequately sets out the criteria for valuing various
17
kinds of assets and the required provisioning.  In applying the norm, however, SBIF does not appear to
Although private banks have made no attempts to issue shares, likely reflecting a traditional reluctance to widen ownership,
this may be an important option for some banks which will face difficulties in raising their capital base.
7 Three key elements are used to assess debtor risk: repayment capacity, quality of collateral, and repayment history. Five
risk categories are defined (A, B, C, D and E) with the corresponding provisioning (0,1,10,50, and 100 percent) on



- 14 -
insist that the banks maintain, at least, the level of provisions determined by the most recent SBIF
inspection. As of September 1997, SBIF publishes the bank's asset distribution classified by risk, but it is
the bank's own classification not the classification carried out by SBIF. This makes it difficult to monitor
provisions and provide early warning for banks facing problems. In cases where SBIF's valuation differs
from that of a bank, the Superintendency has the authority to defer full provisioning or to require gradual
compliance. While this is normal practice in most countries, it appears that SBIF has relied excessively on
this prerogative, resulting in somewhat discretionary enforcement of provisioning norms. Under the Bank
Supervision Action Plan the authorities will use assisted inspections to review classification and
provisioning practices in Nicaragua to prepare a modified norm and improve implementation.
Portfolio Concentration
39.    The prudential norm on portfolio concentration appropriately defines the concepts to be included,
such as risk exposure, and grants SBIF authority to define connected debtors in order to apply a limit by
group.18 However, there are two important problems in this area. First, Law 244 (June 1997) specified
that the 15 percent limit will apply to an individual or group debtor for investment in one business or
enterprise. Thus, the limit can be avoided by a single borrower if the proceeds of the loan are invested in
different businesses, which would make it easy to evade this norm through the creation of paper companies.
Second, following negotiations between the banking sector and the Government, SBIF amended the norm
on exceptions for loans above the 15 and 30 percent limit. The total amount of exceptions to be authorized
was limited to 200 percent of the capital of the bank, reduced by 50 percentage points annually from June
1996. SBIF does not seem to exercise strict control on the exceptions, as it appears that some exceptions
are either not authorized or it is not clear they conform to the criteria for exemptions established in the
norm.19  Moreover, Law  244 maintains the exceptions regime, continuing to allow  CBN  and SBIF
discretionality in exemptions to prudential norms.20  A sounder approach would be to encourage loan
syndication among banks, rather than maintain a discretionary system of exceptions. Under the Bank
Supervision Action Plan the SBIF will adopt a revised norm on portfolio concentration.
Accounting Norms
40.    The lack of clear, uniform accounting rules forces banks and other financial institutions to incur
additional processing and information-gathering costs. SBIF has produced a chart of accounts for
commercial banks which is mandatory. Several accounting firms have been trying to disseminate uniform
accounting rules, but these efforts have had a limited success so far. For example, most companies use
different accounting principles for determining asset depreciation and the effects of inflation. The
anticipated reform of the commercial legal framework to be supported by a separate IDA credit would
address accounting issues.
principal and interest owed. Up to 25 percent of the portfolio can be unclassified, for which the average provisioning for
the remainder of the portfolio is applied.
18 Lending to a single debtor is limited to 15 percent of the capital and reserves of the bank, and lending to a single group
connected by ownership, parent company, or management, to 30 percent of the bank's capital and reserves, as long as the
portion exceeding 15 percent is covered by collateral.
19 In principle, exceptions can be authorized by SBIF provided the loans are long term, for investment in equipment,
agricultural inputs or working capital for the importation of basic inputs, and other categories defined by the Ministry of
Economy.
20 The 1963 Banking Law set a 15 percent limit by individual debtor, establishing an exemption mechanism to promote
exports. In May 1994, without amending the Law SBIF established a 30 percent limit for debtor groups and an exemption
regime broader than exports. Law 244 introduces the 30 percent limit but also establishes an exemption regime based on
CBN and SBIF discretionality.



- 15 -
Central Credit Rating Agency
41.    A Central Credit Rating Agency (Central de Riesgos) is being developed by SBIF, although it
commenced operations in 1997 with debt data to September 1996. The Agency is expected to become fully
operational by end-1998. The Agency has yet to gather information on collateral and data on older loans.
An important problem has been the fact that not all creditors have a single Tax Identification Number,
which requires considerable work to verify creditor names. As conceived, the Agency should become a
useful tool for on-site inspections of the risk classification of bank debtors, facilitate the identification of
defaulters on state bank loans, and help to improve monitoring of economic groups and those connected
with the ownership or management of banks. Thus far, banks have not been enthusiastic users of the
Agency. This may be because banks are required to make written inquiries. A more effective system
would be for the Agency to make the necessary information available electronically to banks.
Non-Profit Financial Intermediaries
42.    Law 244 requires SBIF to supervise non-bank, non-profit financial entities, which largely
represents NGOs involved in micro-credit financing and credit cooperatives. SBIF has already decided to
establish a Micro-credit Department and is in the process of recruiting staff (2 analysts and 2 inspectors).
SBIF is receiving technical assistance from GTZ, has elaborated a chart of accounts and is preparing
appropriate norms. Although details are still being worked out, in prineiple, NGOs that wish to lend only
will be able to request SBIF supervision, which will be reflected in a supervision agreement and would be
-used by NGOs to access donor funds and financing from FNI. A number of important issues, however,
have yet to be defined. First, a decision is needed on minimum capital requirements (which the Law
empowers SBIF to set), although Cl million appears likely, but it is not clear whether this will applv
regardless of whether the entity lends only or also accepts deposits. An appropriate approach would be to
set minimum capital of C$ 1 million for NGOs that only lend, but minunium capital in line with commercial
banks for those that also want to accept deposits. Second, it is not clear whether deposit-taking institutions
will be subject to the reserve requirement, although it has been decided they will not have to pay SBIF 0.1
percent of assets. Third, the extent to which those entities providing loans and mobilizing deposits would
be subject to the same prudential norms as commercial banks is not well established. Subjecting all
deposit-taking intermediaries to the same prudential norms would be advisable.  Under the Bank
Supervision Action Plan the authorities will review and adjust the minimum capital requirements for non-
bank financial intermediaries.
Discretionality
43.    Supervision of the financial sector, but especially banking is charactenrzed by the considerable and
arbitrary discretion exercised by SBIF. As the legal framework for supervision is not always clear, SBIF
interprets and applies norms and regulations with considerable discretion.  This, however, creates
unpredictability which hampers growth of the sector and inconsistent enforcement of standards, which
contributes to the instability which currently characterizes the banking sector in particular.  The
discretionary powers of SBIF were clearly necessary in the early stage of the transition-when rules of the
game were not clearly defined or rudimentary, and there was an urgent need to quickly establish a dynamic
private financial system-but they now represent a source of instability in the system. At this stage, there
is a need to establish a sounder legal framework, with precise and automatic rules and definitions.
I. Overall Strategy and Donor Support
44.    The Government has embarked on a major reform of the financial sector to create a sound financial
system, necessary for the sustained expansion of the Nicaraguan economy and the reduction of poverty.
The first phase of the reforms are to eliminate the misallocation of financial resources caused by an



- 16 -
inefficient state banking system and to strengthen the public sector's capacity to assure an appropriate
framework for the private system to flourish. To improve the allocation of financial resources the
Government plans to liquidate BANADES, to privatize BANIC, restrict the operations of BCP and
strengthen the financial position of FNI. To improve the legal and regulatory framework for private
banking the Government will implement a targeted action plan to strengthen supervision and to fill key gaps
in banking regulation (e.g., related party lending). These reforms will increase the efficiency and soundness
of the financial system. However, much more will have to be done to increase the availability of term
financing and to ensure that the system adequately addresses the needs of small borrowers in rural areas. A
second phase of reforns, requiring more time for preparation and to be supported by a separate IDA
operation(s), is expected to aim at increasing savings, developing capital markets and expanding rural
financial services will include: a comprehensive and coherent program to promote and appropriately
regulate securities market and the insurance industry, the development of a private pension system, an
appropriate framework for non-bank rural financial institutions and a unification of the financial sector
legal framework. The Government is already examining various elements of the second phase of the
reform.
45.   IDA, in close coordination with the IMF and the IDB, will support the Government's financial
sector reform efforts. IDA will provide adjustment support through the FSAC, a technical assistance credit
and a future adjustment credit that would include support for pension reform. The IMF will support the
reforms through the ESAF program and technical assistance. The IDB approved in 1996 a US$32 million
quick disbursing loan that includes conditionality on state bank reforms. It is also considering another
operation in 1998 to support financial sector reform and is likely to support the future pension reform.



Nicaragua at a glance                                                               8/28J97
::Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Arnea  'o--
Nicaragua, & Carib.  income:      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (mi/Cons)                          4.5       485    3,M29
GNP per capita 1996 fUSS)-                             400- 3Q710: 5'o                        Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilons                            --- a)     1.8--    1,799  - t$
Average annual growth, t9S096-.
Population (%'                                         3.0             1.7  17
4-0        2~3      17:      GNP                             Gross
-Laborforce (%  -2                                                                  per     Iprmary
f/lost recent estimate (/atesf year avaiiable.since 1985J-9)   - ,   E ,   - - - -  capita                     enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% ofpopulation):               5
Urban population (%of total populaion)                  63        74 .29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68         69       63
Infant mortatity (per I, CGO live birthsl       .7' 6             3. :69                     Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5]              12
Access to safe water (% of popu/aifon)                 .57        80       53
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)      ,34                    -1a3 a34
Gross primary enrollment (16 ot school-age population)  104      110    o10$
- Male                                               102         ..      112                Low-income group
-Female                                              105         ..       98
-KEY, ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM' TRENDS
1975     1985  -1# 9        1996'
Economic ratiose:
GDP (billions USs)                            1.6      2.7        1.9      2.0
Gross domestic investmenUtGDP                 1A 2     23.1      27.0     27.6              Openness of economy
£xpgrts of goods and services/GDP            28.0      14.8      33.6     38.5
Gross domesticsavings/GIDPU                  12.5      16.1       4.1.     42-
'Gross national savings[GDP                    5.1      9.8-    -13.5  1-13.4
Current account balance/GDP                  -12.8    -31.8     -37.9    -340-                                  Investment
interestpayments/GDP                          0.5      01'        4,1      5.7     Savings                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                       .                 ..      4888    304.7
Total debt servce/exports                    13.9     18.5       44.3    65.8
Present value'of deWbGDP  ,.                             ,.    426.a
Presetit value of debtJexports                 ..        ..   1,12.1                            Indebtedness
-19t-86  1986-9S     1995      1996  1997I05.
oaverage annual growth)                                                                -       Nicaragua
GDP   :           ,2.5                       -0.4       4.5       5.5      6.6                Low-incore group
GNP per capita                       -6.1    -3.2      16.2       4.7      42
Expgrs of goods and services        -5.3   .9,8        15.7      37.0     102  i      ..   _        _ .... r .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                  22.4     23.7       33.3     34.9     30
Industry                                     29.4     35.0       21.4     21.1
Manufacturing                               22.1     27.6      16.3     15.6
Services                                     48.2     41.3       45.3     44.0       0
91 9 S9
Private consumption                          78.4     48.2       82.9     83.0    -15
General government consumption                9.0     35.7       13.1     12.8   |GDI                      *DP
Imports of goods and services                36.9     21.8       56.4     61.9 
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996                                               I
(average annual growth)                   1                                        Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   -2.3     2.1        5.5      9.8     40
Industry                                     -2.5      -1.3       5.5      4.9
Manufacturing                               -0.4     -2.3       3.0      2.0      20
Services                                      -2.6     -1.0       3.2      3.2
Private consumption                          -6.7      2.8        3.2     -4.6      o
General government consumption               18.4    -10.4       -4.4      2.7                               94   95 9e
Gross domestic investment                     1.3      -0.5      12.7      4.6    -20
Imports of goods and services                 2.0      2.8       10.9     13.3                 -Exports
Gross national product                        -3.5     -0.2      19.6      7.6                     x. 
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Nicaragua



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
t976     1986      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         32
Consumer prices                               7.5   217.1        10.9     11.7
Implicit GDP deflator                         4.7    167.2       11.62 12.3        12
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                        0o                   i
Current revenue                                 ..    35.7       28.8     29.5
Current budget balance                          ..   -10.6        3.7      3.2             -GDP def. ---*CPI
overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -22.2       -11.1    -14.2
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           375.    305        526      635      1250
Cotton                                       48      118        131      116      1
Meat                                         15       13         74       75      1,000
Manufactures                                134       36        155      254       750
Total imports (cit)                           516      892       962    1,120  s     00
Food                                         78      132        200      241_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Fuel and energy                              73      164        128      154 2s
Capital goods                               119      251        234      308        0
Export prtce index (1987=100)                  48       88       125      114            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  81       77       132      134                   ElExports   ED Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      59      114        95       85
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 447      344       644      781                                               1
*Imports of goods and services                 588      924      1,083    1.255         90  91   92  93  94  95  96
Resource balance                             -142     -580       -439     -474
Net income                                    -60     -274       -359     -300
Net current transfers                           0        0        78       94    -30
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -201      -853      -720     -680  .|5       |      |
Financing items (net)                         243      732       726      744
Changes in net reserves                       -42      121         -6     -64    -60-
Memo:                                                                            |
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           124       -        184      222
Conversion rate (locab/US$)                   1.4      5.6        7.5      8.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          800    5,821     9,287    6,094
IBRO                                         52      163        65       44                    G  A  B
IDA                                          13       59       276      335                F 417 443352
313
Total debt service                             64       64       282      204
IBRD                                          5        0        21       22                                    D
IDA                                           0        0         3        4                                  1274
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               3       47       408      367
Official creditors                           46      679       123      120
Private creditors                            95       14       -77      -129
Foreign direct investment                    11        0        70       85                   E
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0        0                  3683
World Bank program
Commitments                                   5        0        93       61      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                20        0        18       69      B - IDA    D - Cther multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          2        0        16       18      C-IMF                       G-Short-ternm
Net flows                                    17        0         3       51    1_t
Interest payments                             3        0         8        8
Net transfers                                14        0        -6       43
Development Economics                                                                                               8/28/97



