         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                  87127
                  International Development Association
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                        CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                    EDS98-169
                                                                   April 8, 1998


Board Meeting of April 9, 1998
Statement by Pieter Stek
Nicaragua - Country Assistance Strategy & Financial Sector Adjustment
                                Credit

Let me start by thanking Management and staff for the informative and
considered strategy for Nicaragua for the coming years. I hope that
the discussion in the Board will clarify a couple of questions I was
left with after having read the document.
The Country Assistance Strategy
The development agenda in Nicaragua remains formidable notwithstanding
the progress achieved during the preceding three years. The poverty
level is very high, external viability is expected to be achieved only
in the long run, and macroeconomic imbalances remain large. I find the
broad-based response by the Bank group appropriate as outlined in para
49 of the document and in the Country Program Matrix (Annex B1). I
endorse the lending program and the non-lending services planned to
underpin achieving the objectives of the current CAS.

Given the relatively young IDA portfolio in Nicaragua as well as the
expanding lending program, I very much welcome the re-opening of the
resident mission in the country.
The CAS document conveys the importance for Nicaragua of continuing to
pursue aggressive structural adjustment in the coming years in order
to sustain high growth rates and achieve HIPC eligibility. In this
respect I am somewhat puzzled by phrasing the overall objective of the
CAS as “helping Nicaragua to graduate from transition to market
economy status”. This is a somewhat vaguely defined objective while in
the case of Nicaragua it seems far more urgent to reduce the country’s
dependence on external aid by the combination of profound domestic
reforms and further debt reduction.
Another problem I have with this, supposedly joint IDA-IFC CAS, is the
role IFC is expected to play in fostering private sector development
in Nicaragua. Phrasing like “IFC could help expand...” or “IFC is
uniquely placed to...” (Annex C, para 29 and 30) are not necessarily
informative on what exactly IFC’s role is going to be in this
particular country over this particular period. I realize that it may
be difficult for IFC to commit ex ante to specific operations, given
that its outputs are very much dependent on the local and foreign
sponsors. It might be advisable that IFC defines its corporate
                                   2


strategy in a country in terms of according prioritized inputs, if not
outputs. It should be possible for us, as a Board, to be presented
with meaningful Bank group strategic documents. I am convinced that on
the basis of the progress already achieved in opening up the economy,
IFC could make an important contribution to the private sector
development in Nicaragua.
The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
I support the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit for
Nicaragua. The financial sector reform program which this credit will
support is expected to enhance the regulatory capacity of the
authorities and to contribute in a meaningful manner to two of the CAS
objectives: strengthening macroeconomic stability and facilitating
private banking in the rural sector. Rural sector development on its
part is at the core of the poverty alleviation program in Nicaragua.
I am in agreement with the assessment that the measures to be
supported by the credit will promote the financial sector reform but
will need to be deepened over the next years, perhaps with additional
financial support from IDA.
