Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repast No: 24435
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30560; IDA-30S61; TF-28717)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR71.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 28, 2002
Porverty Reduction and Economic Mnagement
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfdmine of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Nicaragua Cordoba
NI$ I = US$ 0.07
US$ 1 = NI$ 14.26
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANADES       National Development Bank
BANIC S.A.    Nicaraguan Bank for Industry and Trade, Inc.
BANPRO        Production Bank
BCN           Central Bank of Nicaragua
BPC           Popular Credit Bank
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CGO           Comptroller General's Office
CENIS         Negotiable Investment Certificates
CPPR          Country Portfolio Performance Review
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC          Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFC           Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INIBSA        Latin-American Investment, Inc.
MOF           Ministry of Finance
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SBIF          Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:  Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ronald E.. Myers



NICARAGUA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              22
Annex 8. Status of Policy Actions                                                  23
Annex 9. Bank Supervision Action Plan                                              26






Project ID: P007777                                      Project Name: FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT
Team Leader: Ronald E. Myers                             TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-30560;
IDA-30561; TF-28717
Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: FF - Financial Adjustment; FS - Financial Sector
Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/05/95                                Effective: 07/09/98           07/09/98
Appraisal:  02/12/96                                 MTR:
Approval:  04/09/98                               Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                       Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Ronald E. Myers                          Robert Lacey
Team Leader at ICR:  Ronald E. Myers                          Ronald E. Myers
ICR Primary Author:  Violeta Rosenthal; Ronald E.
Myers
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The credit supported the Govermment of Nicaragua's structural adjustment efforts in the financial sector. It
aimed at: (i) virtually eliminating the state banling sector as a source of fiscal drain and financial
distortion; (ii) fostering private banking presence in the rural and agricultural sectors; and (iii)
strengthening the regulatory framework and supervision of the banking system. In 1979, the Sandinista
regime had dismantled Nicaragua's private financial system by nationalizing all private banks. After more
than a decade of state control, in 1991 the Chamorro administration reopened banking to the private sector
and created the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBIF). Over the next several years,
the international donor community supported Nicaragua's efforts to transform itself from a centrally
planned to a market-based economy. In the specific area of the financial sector, although some reforms
were undertaken and efforts made to modernize and improve the efficiency of the state banks, as of 1998
the banking system was still relatively underdeveloped and weak, with a number of small private banks and
a dominant state banking sector in which a non-repayment culture predominated. The regulatory framework
was based on obsolete laws and its application relied largely on the judgment of a Superintendent who
played the dual role of promoter and protector of the incipient banking system. The state banks constituted
a heavy drain on government finances, losing more than 2.5 percent of GDP per year on average. Financial
sector reform had become a policy priority, both to improve fiscal stability and to promote the private
banking system. The financial sector adjustment program which the Government prepared was expected to
significantly strengthen the banking system, recognizing that additional measures would be required over
the medium-term to firmly establish a sound and sustainable financial system. It was anticipated that the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) would contribute to important CAS objectives, including
consolidating macroeconomic stability, creating an enabling environment for private sector-led growth and
developing the rural sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The FSAC consisted of three tranches. The first tranche of SDR 29.6 million (US$40 million equivalent)
would be available upon credit effectiveness; two floating tranches of SDR I 1.1 million (US$15 million
equivalent) each, called the BANADES and BANIC tranches, would be available upon Borrower
compliance with the respective tranche conditions. The BANADES tranche was increased to SDR 12.1
million (US$ 16.9 million) following amendment of the credit to incorporate SDR 1 million of Fifti
Dimension resources; it would be disbursed upon withdrawal of BANADES' operating license. The
BANIC tranche would be available upon bringing to the point of sale a majority of BANIC's shares.
Satisfactory progress in carrying out a banking supervision plan and maintenance of a suitable
macroeconomic framework were additional conditions of both tranches. (The detailed policy matrix and
implementation plan is presented in Annex 8). The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) provided
parallel financing through a financial sector reform credit and the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF)
supported financial sector reforms through a three-year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF, later the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility or PRGF).
There were no changes in the credit components and only one minor change in conditionality during the life
of the FSAC. A Study on the Evaluation and Classification of Bank Assets in Nicaragua was dropped. In
its place, a new norm on asset classification and evaluation, acceptable to IDA, was approved prior to
credit effectiveness (June 2, 1998). Overall the conditionality was appropriate and monitorable. The
number of conditions was reasonable and did not impose excessive demands on the implementing agencies.
- 2 -



IDA provided adequate and timely assistance to the authorities in their efforts to comply with credit
conditions.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The quality at entry rating is based on: (i) the priority of the objectives for the country's
development and coherence with CAS objectives; (ii) the fact that the program supported the deepening of
financial sector reforms that had been initiated under previous operations supported by IDA and other
donors; (iii) the successful implementation of the closure/sale of BANADES; and (iv) the overall
appropriateness of the design to achieve credit objectives, in particular the decision to use floating tranches,
which provided needed flexibility to the timing of the privatization of BANIC and the implementation of the
bank supervision action plan. With the benefit of hindsight, the design could have been further
strengthened by requiring that the Government sell 100 percent of BANIC shares, instead of retaining a
minority stake, as this may have made the transaction more attractive to potential investors. The
Government opted to sell new shares rather than a complete sale, because of concerns about a
constitutional requirement to maintain a state banking presence and fear of possible political resistance to
full privatization. Two conditions which IDA had initially proposed were dropped during negotiations: the
Government requested that a final audit of BANIC's 1997 perforrnance and a valuation of BANIC's assets
be dropped, because a valuation of assets would be carried out in any case as part of BANIC's
privatization, with the support of the IFC, which was being retained as investment adviser for the
transaction.
A Quality-at-Entry Review by the LAC Quality Assurance Group rated the operation as "marginally
satisfactory." While the review identified three state-of-the-art features, it also had some reservations. The
state-of-the-art features were: (i) the Region's decision to suspend preparation of an earlier public sector
reform operation and focus on financial reforns; (ii) the successful closure/sale of BANADES; and (iii) the
innovative efforts to promote the development of private banking in rural areas. The problem features
identified were: (i) that the conditionality for the BANIC tranche should have been "sell or close" rather
than bring to the "point of sale"; and (ii) concerns that the credit would not make a significant change in the
legal/regulatory framework affecting private banking because of resistance from the then Superintendent of
Banks and limited IDA resources for future operations. The review panel suggested that the credit be
downsized and limited to privatization of the state banks, and that some later vehicle be developed to
improve the SBIF once there would be a new Superintendent more responsive to change. With regard to
the BANIC conditionality, the task team explained to the panel that it could not have required "sale," given
that IDA was not longer using this type of conditionality in adjustment operations on the grounds that
requiring this would give inappropriate leverage to the buyer. The panel felt that this policy was not
correct and that a borrower should not be rewarded simply for reaching the point of sale, if a transaction
did not go through. Conceming banking supervision, the project team felt that it would be important to
maintain involvement with the SBIF and that, following an expected change in Superintendent, conditions
would improve substantially for improving banking supervision. In retrospect, one of the main
accomplishments of the program has been a very significant improvement in the legal/regulatory framework
and in the capacity of the SBIF (see 4.2 e below). Despite the review panel's concerns, the ICR considers
that LCR management and the task team demonstrated good judgmnent in deciding not to delay work on
reform efforts because of resistance by the then Superintendent.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactorv. Achievement of objectives under the FSAC was commendable, considering the institutional
- 3 -



weaknesses in Nicaragua and the opposition of the Superintendent until his term expired in June 1999.
The fiscal hemorrhage from state bank losses was stopped, and this alone would have justified the credit.
The FSAC also helped to bring about important improvements in banking supervision and provided
balance of payment support essential to the financing plan of IMF's PRGF which, in turn, helped
Nicaragua to arrive at the Decision Point under the enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative. While at end- 1996 state banks represented 30 percent of all outstanding credit, since end-2000
there are no more state banks in operation and all bank credit is privately controlled. The only remaining
Government presence in banking is through a second tier institution, the National Investment Fund (FNI).
Financial intermediation has improved. Following privatization of BANADES and BANIC, the financial
system deepened, as evidenced by the rise in the ratio of liquid liabilities of financial intermediaries (M3) to
GDP, especially in 1998 and 1999. In 2000, several private bank failures generated a loss of Cordoba-
denominated deposits, with the result that M3/GDP fell back to 1997 levels. Credit continued to grow
rapidly leading to a recomposition of credit more in line with market signals. While inefficiencies remain,
the private banking system is now stronger; the weaker banks (with the exception of one small bank) have
exited the system and the surviving private banks are better capitalized and managed (indicators for the
banking sector and by bank are available in Project Files). Total equity in the banking system increased
from US$70 million in 1997 to almost US$140 million in 2000, and the capital adequacy ratio improved
from 10.5 percent to 14 percent over the same period. A stronger legal framework and a more capable
supervisory function should help the system grow prudently. However, the system operates in' a high risk
environment: fragile macroeconomic conditions, continuing political polarization and weak governance
environment--in particular a highly deficient judicial system. Addressing these risks will require strong
vigilance from the authorities and continued support from the international community.
Private banking presence in the rural and agricultural sectors increased as a result of the private sector
absorption of BANADES branches (see 4.2 c below). Agricultural credit kept pace with overall credit
growth in the economy, maintaining its share of approximately 22 percent of total credit. From 1997 to
2000 agricultural credit grew at an annual average rate of 21 percent or somewhat higher than overall
credit. During the same period, private sector credit to agriculture more than doubled, from US$111
million to US$258 million. Private banks also increased their lending to small borrowers (loans below
US$25,000), representing about 35 percent of their portfolio, compared to 27 percent in 1997. Until
end-2000, the credit portfolio of the rural branches taken over by the private sector continued operating.
However, the failure for.reasons of fraud of BANCAFE, a bank that had purchased 19 BANADES
branches, resulted in the closing of many of those branches. Despite this development, private banking
presence in agriculture has increased. With regard to rural credit more generally, some indicators suggest
better access, but mainly originating from non-bank entities such as NGOs and publicly funded programs.
An annual survey of micro and rural finance providers shows that micro credit doubled from 1997 to 1999
from US$22 to US$45 million and the number of beneficiaries almost doubled from 43,000 to 95,000, but
it is not possible to deternine what portion of this credit went to rural areas v. small and medium
enterprises in towns and other urban centers.
A sigrificant strengthening of the regulatory framework and of the SBIF itself is a major achievement of
the FSAC (see para. 4.2 e below and Annex 9). The credit helped bring the regulatory framework more in
line with international standards and a well-coordinated effort between IDA, IDB and IMF helped enact a
major reform in the financial sector legal framework. Although there was initially little headway in
institutional strengthening because of the opposition of the Superintendent who was in place at the time of
credit approval, the fact that the improvements in the regulatory framework had been put in place
facilitated the supervision efforts of the new Superintendent who was appointed in November 1999. The
failure of two private banks some nine months into the new Superintendent's tenure put the SBIF to an
-4-



early test. The SBIF acted appropriately, showing independence and capacity, despite the fact that a law
dealing with bank resolutions had not yet been enacted. In June 2000 a program of on-site assisted
inspections started, supported under a subsequent IDA Pension Refonn and Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 3344-NI). This program has helped identify problems in the remaining banks and
upgrade the technical capacity of the inspectors. It is fair to say that the FSAC and later technical
assistance credit contributed to mitigate the banking crisis of 2000.
4.2 Outputs by components:
a. Macroeconomic frameworki Marginally Satisfactorv. In March 1998, the IMF Board approved a
three-year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility, later the Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF). The comerstone of the PRGF program was to be improvement on the fiscal
front, to be achieved by decreasing the size of the public sector and improving its efficiency, eliminating
financial sector subsidies by reforming and/or privatizing state banks, and improving the finances of public
utilities. The privatization of BANIC and the issuance of prudential norms supported by the FSAC, were
structural benchmarks under the first annual PRGF arrangement. The review of the first annual
arrangement found policy implementation broadly in line with the objectives of the program. In 1998,
despite the destruction caused by Hurricane Mitch, fiscal and credit policies were strengthened and
important progress was made in structural reforms, while the economy maintained a good growth
performance. The review of the second annual arrangement, originally scheduled for September 2000, was
postponed to December 2000 due to the banking crisis that emerged in August 2000. As a result of the
crisis, there were slippages with regard to the benchmarks on net intemational reserves and the Central
Bank's net domestic assets. The benchmarks on the combined public sector deficit and net domestic
financing of the nonfinancial public sector were met and there was progress on some structural reforms.
Although the IMF and the authorities could not reach an agreement on a macroeconomic framework for
2001, the review of the second annual arrangement was completed. With this and actions taken to improve
governance, Nicaragua met the conditions to reach the decision point under the enhanced HIPC initiative
which makes Nicaragua eligible for total debt service relief of nearly US$4.5 billion, or US$3.3 billion in
Net Present Value (NPV) terms.
While macroeconomic performance during the life of the FSAC was satisfactory for the aforementioned
reasons, the ICR rates this area as only marginally satisfactory overall, because of the Government's
subsequent inability to sustain that performance. In early 2001, as a result of a continued deterioration of
economic performance, the authorities and the IMF could not reach agreement on the third annual
arrangement under the PRGF program. Economic performance was adversely affected by a number of
developments that took place in 2000, including rising energy costs, falling coffee prices, a slowdown of
investment after the post-Mitch high, the effects of a drought and the consequences of the banking crisis.
These factors all contributed to a deceleration of GDP growth and lower public revenues. At the same time,
current public expenditures related to the municipal elections in November 2000 were larger than
anticipated, public sector salary increases were granted and some capital expenditure overruns occurred at
the end of the year, which were largely financed by the accumulation of domestic floating debt. Finally,
several large disbursements of balance of payments support were postponed on account of delays in the
implementation of structural measures. Following inability to reach agreement on a third annual PRGF
arrangement, the government requested Fund staff to monitor an interim program designed to run from June
through December 2001, with the intention of re-establishing a track record that would enable the
negotiation of a new 3-year PRGF program with the incoming government in early 2002. The
Staff-Monitored Programn was discussed at the IMF Board in September 2001, during a meeting to review
Nicaragua's recently completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Performance under the
six-month program was inadequate, but the incoming administration which took office in January 2002 has
committed to re-establishing a suitable macroeconomic policy framework and is now working with the IMF
- 5 -



to develop a new PRGF.
b. BANADES Privatization: Hiighlv Satisfactors. The state-owned National Development Bank
(BANADES) was the largest of the Nicaraguan banks and the only one with a wide branch network in the
rural areas. It had also become a continuing and major drain on state finances. Between 1991 and 1996,
BANADES losses averaged US$50 million per year (roughly 2.5 percent of GDP). In 1997, the incoming
Aleman administration faced a technically bankrupt institution, plagued with low recovery rates, continued
loan restructurings, loan forgiveness, and political and special interest group abuses. While its mandate was
to lend to small farmers, over 65 percent of its portfolio was in loans greater than US$100,000. Moreover,
BANADES' presence in rural areas and its expected generous loan terms crowded out and discouraged the
entry of private banks. While the Government was convinced that BANADES had to be
liquidated/privatized, it was concerned that closing the bank would leave a significant portion of the rural
areas without banking services. Addressing Government concerns was central to the privatization design.
The BANADES closure/sale has been a major success. The divestiture approach (sequential auctions of
individual branches) is an example of best practice. In Nicaragua, this privatization is hailed as a prime
example of an open, transparent, professional and fair process. A major drain on state finances was
stopped. The liquidation of BANADES, helped strengthen the banking system by contributing to the
elimination of the non-payment credit culture, and allowing the private sector to expand and increasing
banking competition.
Key elements to the success of the privatization were: (i) appointment of a new president of BANADES
with the express mandate to privatize the bank; (ii) strong technical support by the Central Bank and by
IDA staff and international consultants; (iii) privatization design (sequential branch auctions) ensured
continued access to banking services and minimized fiscal losses; (iv) attractive liquidation package to
BANADES personnel, most of whom were rehired by the purchasing banks; (v) clear bidding documents,
transparent bidding process with the participation of the Comptroller Generars Office (CGO) and the
SBIF; and (vi) a well-designed public infornnation campaign outlining BANADES' mounting losses and
emphasizing the fact that the portfolio was concentrated in large non-performing loans to large producers.
Contrary to Government fears, there was almost no negative media coverage of the privatization,
opposition or disruption of the financial system. A credit line secured with the Central Bank to prevent and
confront a potential run on deposits was never drawn on. It took just eight months to complete the
privatization process. Thirty-six branches were sold to 6 private banks and only a few very small branches
out of a total of 41 were closed. The cost of the liquidation of BANADES was US$70 million (mostly the
value of the non-recovered D and E loans), about a year and a half of the cost of BANADES' losses had it
been allowed to continue operations. The SBIF Council withdrew BANADES' operating license on
February 27, 1998 and Law 294 of June 30, 1998, closed the bank and created a small public entity (FNI)
to channel government finds (mainly foreign aid) to non-bank micro lending organizations and
cooperatives. At the time this ICR was prepared, FNI had a credit portfolio of about US$7.3 million
serving some 5,000 borrowers through about 40 NGOs and cooperatives. It had credit ceilings of
US$10,000 per individual borrower and US$400,000 per entity. It appeared to be well managed and had a
modest profit of 11 percent in 2000. It was not a source of fiscal expenditures.
c. BANIC Capitalization Program: Marzinallv Satisfactory. In 1997, when the Aleman administration took
office, BANIC's performance was considered stronger than that of BANADES. It had made progress in
reducing its administrative costs but continued to face loan recovery problems. To ensure that BANIC
would not loose ground, part of the Government's financial sector reform program called for selling new
BANIC shares to be subscribed by an investor selected through an international bidding process. This was
expected to reduce the Government's share below 50 percent and to at least double the bank's net worth.
- 6-



The Government and BANIC's management were eager to have IFC as the financial advisor for the
operation, since IFC's presence would provide transparency and lend credibility to the privatization
process. On January 19, 1999, five bids were presented for 36,000 BANIC shares representing 50.7
percent of the Bank. The winning bid was that of Inversiones Iberoarnericanas, S.A. (INIBSA) a company
formed by Nicaraguan and Guatemalan individuals, two Panamanian banks (all together 90 percent) and
Hamilton Bank, N.A. (10 percent), offering US$11,052,000 (US$307 per share) or a 63 percent premium
over the adjusted book value as of November 23, 1998. The only other positive bid was that of Banistmo,
offering US$10,652,040 (US$295.89 per share). Three other bidders made zero offers.
Following the privatization, concerns emerged about possible mismanagement and improprieties in relation
to the transaction. Three months after the privatization, an SBIF inspection report showed that BANIC
was in serious financial trouble and in need of a major infusion of capital. Although the CGO had
participated as an observer in the privatization committee, on August 30, 1999, it issued an order declaring
the bidding null on the grounds that INIBSA had not complied with the bidding qualification requirements.
The order was challenged and the Supreme Court ruled that the CGO did not have the authority to declare
the bidding null, thus validating the privatization. In August 1999, BANIC's management was changed and
the new management agreed to a financial evaluation to be carried out by an international audit firm. IDA
assisted the Ministry of Finance with the terms of reference and selection of the audit firm, and the IFC
allowed the proceeds of its investment advisory fee to be used to finance the evaluation. The results, made
available in January 2000, indicate that BANIC's previous management was highly deficient, on a
systematic basis, suggesting that certain breaches of fiduciary duties to the shareholders (the Government)
of the bank may have occurred. The financial evaluation did not provide evidence of improprieties by
high-level officials or of rumored triangulation (channeling of proceeds of loans extended by BANIC to the
purchasers of the shares). Based on the results of the financial evaluation, the Government took corrective
actions and completion of the evaluation and BANIC's compliance with an improvement plan issued by the
Superintendency, cleared the way for the disbursement of the credit's third and final tranche.
In March 2000, BANIC was recapitalized. The new owners provided fresh capital of US$3.3 million and
assets were revaluated by US$3.2 million, bringing the bank into compliance with prudential norms. As a
result of the new capitalization, the Government's share decreased to 32 percent. Despite the infusion of
new capital, the financial position of the bank continued to deteriorate, in part due to losses on its coffee
portfolio. In November 2000, BANIC lost a third of its deposits following a general weakening of
confidence in the financial sector resulting from the failure of two other banks. By July 2001, BANIC was
unable to meet minimum reserve requirements, its accumulated loses had mounted to US$18 million, it
continued to lose deposits, and its shareholders refused to contribute fresh capital to shore-up the bank. The
SBIF intervened BANIC on August 4, 2001, and implemented a resolution plan that succeeded in having a
local bank take over BANIC's deposits and portfolio. The BCN provided a 100 percent deposit guarantee.
The SBIF separated BANIC's assets and liabilities into two. All deposits of the public and BANIC's
attractive assets (loan portfolio in good standing and physical assets) were grouped in a "to be sold"
balance sheet. The remaining items were grouped in a "residual" balance sheet. The "residual" balance
sheet items were transferred to the Central Bank for liquidation. On August 5, 2001, the SBIF auctioned
the "to be sold" balance sheet items among local banks with the difference between assets and liabilities
being covered with three-year Government bonds (CENIS). The winning bid was Banco de la Producci6n
(BANPRO) that offered to take CENIS at the lowest rate of 11.45 percent.
Overall, this ICR rates BANIC's capitalization as marginally satisfactory. A privatized BANIC was
allowed to fail, whereas a state bank would in all likelihood have continued operating with loses. As it no
longer exists, a source of fiscal drain and financial distortion has been eliminated, and this was an
extremely important achievement. However, BANIC's subsequent collapse does provide several lessons
-7 -



regarding weaknesses in the capitalization process. In the assessment of this ICR, BANIC was not
adequately prepared for privatization, safeguards to ensure the proper management of the bank during the
privatization period were inadequate, some irregularities during the privatization process left BANIC
vulnerable to political attacks, thereby hurting its prospects for success, and inadequate restrictions in the
bidding process resulted in the bank being purchased by a group that proved incapable of improving its
performance. The Government does not share this view. In the Government's opinion, the privatization
process was carried out in a proper manner, with the participation of the CGO and the SBIF. Because of its
relevance for the lessons that can be learned from the process, an examination of the privatization's
shortcomings follows:
*      IFC had limited country experience in Nicaragua when it took on this assignment. The institutional
weaknesses in the judicial system, history of corrupt state banking practices and the highly politicized
environment demanded very intensive follow-up and supervision to ensure compliance with financial
safeguards. Unfortunately, too much reliance was placed on BANIC's management to behave appropriately
and comply with safeguards, such as a moratorium on credit during the period between the cut-off date and
closing dates of the transaction. Once the decision to privatize had been taken, the replacement of BANIC's
management by an independent professional team to oversee day-to-day operations should have been
required. IDA offered to finance an independent consultant familiar with BANIC's operations to fulfill such
functions, but the offer was declined. IDA showed awareness of the potential dangers of not closely
overseeing BANIC's management, as clearly expressed in its letter of September 1998, addressed to the
Minister of Finance. However, it did not press the issue further once the Minister of Finance offered to
name an observer to BANIC's Board, although this action clearly fell short of IDA's suggestion of more
direct intervention.
*      The privatization law had two significant shortcomings. First, it allowed any Nicaraguan
individual, with or without banking expertise, to take control of BANIC. To deal with this, IFC insisted
that non-bank bidders had to be backed by a management contract subscribed with a qualified bank. IFC
made this pre-qualification arrangement an indispensable condition for moving forward with the process, in
spite of opposition of BANIC and local counsel who contended that such requirement might lead to a
challenge of the entire capitalization process. Second, it established that the shares could not be sold below
their book value.
*   .  The prequalification requirements should have been tighter. This resulted in the bank being
awarded to a purchaser who, while providing an important cash infusion, did not bring the hoped for
management improvements and increased competition to the banling system. It should be recognized that
institutional weaknesses and the fragile macroeconomic environment made it difficult to attract strong
foreign banks. Furthermore, the aforementioned flaws in the privatization law made it difficult to restrict
participation in the bidding.
d. Other Public Financial Institutions: Satisfactorv. The credit included a provision to promote recovery of
the non-performiing portfolio from BANADES estimated at some US$70 million. On November 27, 1997,
the SBIF passed a resolution requiring 100 percent provisioning on new loans granted by any bank to
holders of non-performing BANADES loans. The SBIF reported that banks complied with the provisioning
requirement and that no new loans have been extended to the debtors of BANADES. Over the period from
end 1998 to 2000, the Liquidation Commission, a dependency of the BCN in charge of disposing of
BANADES' D and F loans, recovered some US$7.5 million or about 11 percent of the face value as of
end-1997. The effort continues, but recovery of bad debts is a very difficult proposition in the best of
circumstances. To improve recoveries, the BCN might consider either auctioning the bad portfolio or
giving it in administration to the private sector with an attractive commission.
- 8 -



During negotiations of the FSAC, IDA advised the Government to close or sell the Banco de Credito
Popular (BCP), a small state bank, but the Government did not agree because of concerns of political
opposition. Instead, it agreed to freeze BCP's portfolio and to refrain from capitalizing the bank. In fact,
the Government went beyond these requirements. BCP was liquidated and the liquidation process went
smoothly, with a net cost to the Government of US$5 million. In early 1998 the SBIF council placed the
bank in a special exemption regime and changed its management. In November 1999, the bank stopped all
credit disbursements. In January 2000, the SBP revoked the bank's authorization to conduct banking
activities. By March 2000, all deposits had been returned, the bad portfolio was transferred to the
Liquidation Commission and the good portfolio was auctioned to private collectors.
e. Supervision of Banks: Satisfactory. In 1997, despite considerable support by several international donors
(especially the IDB), the SBIF was weak. It lacked an appropriate legal framework, resources and capacity
to supervise a growing banking system. The Superintendent resisted change and foreign technical
assistance. However, the government majority on the SBIF Council was committed to the reform program.
(The SBIF Council was composed of the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Finance, the President of
the Central Bank, the Superintendent and a representative of the main opposition party.) The FSAC
included an "Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks" (Amex 9 outlines the Plan and details
implementation progress) adopted by the SBIF on March 11, 1998. The plan covered changes in key
regulations, creation of a financial analysis unit at the SBIF, diagnosis of the solvency of all private banks,
strengthening of inspections and a study and action plan on bank exit, crisis resolution, structure of
resolution agencies and deposit insurance.
There has been a major reform of the financial sector regulatory framework, well beyond the requirements
of the FSAC. IDA, through the FSAC, was instrunental in bringing about this reform, in coordination with
the IDB and the IMF. Despite the resistance of the Superintendent in place at the time at the start of the
project, and the representative of the opposition, the SBIF Council passed new norns in line with
intemational standards regarding capital adequacy (increasing the ratio from 8 to 10 percent), asset
valuation and classification, issued provisioning requirements for risk concentration, and approved a new
norm on related party lending. In October 1999, three major pieces of financial legislation were issued:
Law No. 314, General Law of Banks, Non-Bank Financial Institutions and Financial Groups; Law No.
316, Law of the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions; and Law No. 317, Central
Bank Organic Law. Law 314 incorporates most of the norms issued under the FSAC. The Superintendency
Law modifies the composition of the SBIF Council, gives more autonomy to the Superintendent and
improves the structure of the SBIF. This represents a major modernization and improvement of the system
but the task is by no means complete. IDA continues to provide assistance to the SBIF through the Pension
and Financial System Reform Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 3344-NI) and has identified a series of new
norms that need to be issued to implement the new legislation. The Deposit Insurance Law was approved in
December 5, 2000. That law, based on a study supported under the FSAC completed in June 1999,
specifies a banking resolution process, guarantees 100 percent of deposits until July 31st, 2002, and
thereafter limits the guarantee to US$20,000 per depositor. This law needs to be complemented by
legislation defining fnancial crimes and providing legal protection to SBIF staff in the implementation of
bank resolution actions.
Improvements in implementation of the regulations and in the quality of the inspections were delayed due to
opposition of the previous Superintendent, but there was rapid progress following the appointment of the
new Superintendent on November 5,1999. The previous Superintendent, whose term expired on July 20,
1999, consistently voted against the new regulations, vigorously opposed implementation of on-site assisted
inspections (the pairing of SBIF staff with international experts), and did not support effective
-9-



implementation of the Credit Bureau. The modernization of the Credit Bureau was part of IDA's support
program to the SBIF. As a result, supervision continued to be weak despite improved infornation on the
status of the banks generated by the diagnostic studies supported by the FSAC. A series of events in 1999,
further weakened banking supervision: the failure of Banco del Sur stretched the SBIF inspection capacity,
the implementation of the Classification and Evaluation of Assets Norm was temporarily suspended to
accommodate the shock of Hurricane Mitch, and the position of Superintendent was vacant for 3 months.
Upon taking office, the new Superintendent quickly launched an intensive program of inspections and
requested assistance from IDA and IDB. In June 2000, a program of on-site assisted inspections was
initiated. All banks had at least one assisted inspection and, unlike previous inspections, current inspections
are comprehensive. In addition to performing a more extensive review of the portfolio, the inspections
review the accounts of the bank, quality of management and strategic plans. The assisted-inspections were
a very effective way of transferring technical know-how from international experts to SBIF staff. The
changes in inspection practices are praised by Government and private bankers. This tool greatly enhanced
SBIF's knowledge of the actual situation of the banking system and as a result, the SBIF is better prepared
to take timely corrective measures.
Confidence in the banking system weakened during the second half of 2000, following a sharp deterioration
in the quality of the portfolios of two banks owing to fraud and mismanagement, resulting in deposit
withdrawals and some capital flight. Considering that there was no deposit insurance or bank resolution
mechanism in place at the time, the SBIF managed the situation well. There were, however, coordination
problems because of the lack of clearly assigned responsibilities between the BCN, the MOF and the SBIF
in regard to the banking crisis resolution process. On August 7, 2000, the SBIF intervened Interbank, the
largest Nicaraguan bank following reports of fraud. On November 17, 2000, the. SBIF intervened Bancafe
on grounds of insolvency and started liquidation proceedings. To deal with the situation, the BCN provided
deposit guarantees and the authorities implemented resolution plans in line with recommendations of IDA,
IDB and IMF. Under the plans, the deposits and portfolio of the failed bank are taken over by another
bank, with the BCN issuing government bonds (CENIS) to cover the deficit between assets and liabilities.
Local banks were selected through a bidding process where the winner is the bank that bids the lowest
return on CENIS. Two weak unprofitable banks have ceased operations: PRIBANCO in October 2000,
through a voluntary merger with a local bank, and BA vMER in March 2001, following intervention by the
SBIF. The implementation of BAMER's resolution was impeccable, but the crisis was fiscally costly. The
crisis also highlighted weaknesses in the judicial system and govemance environment. Criminal charges
were levied in the INTERBANK and Bancafe cases. In one case, while there appears to have been
sufficient evidence to grant a conviction, the judge dismissed all charges. In the other, the bank's president
and managers are currently in prison awaiting legal process. The number of banks operating in Nicaragua
was reduced to six; all but one small bank appear to be in sound condition.
Compared to 1997, the SBIF is now a much stronger institution, which functions as an independent body
taking technically sound positions that may not always be in agreement with the preferences of the Central
Bank and Ministry of Finance. While it still needs technical support, which is being provided by follow up
operations with IDA and IDB, the institution is viewed as acting in a transparent and rule-based manmer,
and the Superintendent projects an image of honesty and technical competence.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
-10-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The program's institutional development impact was high. As discussed above, the elimnination of the state
banks, the reform of the financial sector legal framework and the improvements in the capacity of the SBIF
have resulted in a radical change in the institutional environment for financial sector development. This has
already contributed to a better allocation of financial resources which should help increase the country's
long-term growth prospects. Evidence of institutional improvements are: higher capitalization levels of the
banking system, more extensive coverage and better quality of on-site inspections, and development of
SBIF as an independent and technically capable institution. These gains are expected to be sustained as
support to the SBIF has been further strengthened through a program developed and implemented jointly
with the assistance of IDA (through the Pension Reform and Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit),
the EDB and the IMF.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors has been mixed.
*   The good working relations and close collaboration between IDA, IDB and IMF was a positive factor
in improving the regulatory and supervisory framework, dealing with BANIC post-privatization and
banking failure issues.
*   The overall weakness in govemance prevailing in Nicaragua, in particular weaknesses in the judicial
system, complicated the BANIC privatization process and the ability to achieve accountability for
irregularities.
*   The opposition to reform by the previous Superintendent delayed implementation of the institutional
strengthening measures with negative consequences for the quality of supervision and the strength of
the banking system.
*   The highly politicized Nicaraguan environment had a negative impact on BANIC's privatization. The
public perception of the privatization and trust in BANIC were adversely affected by rumors of
improper behavior by high level officials, the CGO's nullification of the privatization process and
public declarations by the opposition.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Govemment's strong commitment to privatization of state banks and to the reform of the regulatory
framework for banking supervision was fundamental to the achievement of the program objectives. Support
of the CBN was key in the successful privatization/closure of BANADES. The strong positions taken by
the Govermment members of the SBIF Council were crucial to the implementation of changes in the
regulatory framework. On the other hand, coordination between CBN, MOF and SBIF regarding the
handling of bank resolution cases could have been stronger. Finally, deficiencies in BANIC's privatization
law allowed individuals without significant banking experience to purchase BANIC.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was the Ministry of Finance. The strong commitment of the Minister to the
program objectives was fundamental in the success of the privatization of BANADES. In the case of
BANIC, MOF did not oversee the process as closely as it should have, considering that the govemment
was sole shareholder of BANIC prior to its capitalization. MOF should have intervened BANIC
management as suggested by IDA in its letter of September 1998.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
N/A



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Likely. The privatization/closure/liquidation of the state banks is likely to be sustained. The privatization of
BANADES, BANIC and BCP cannot be reversed. The banks no longer exist as ongoing concerns, and it is
unlikely that the present or future Governments would establish a new state bank. The reforns in the
regulatory framework are likely to be sustained as many of the changes are now part of the new Banking
Law. There is always the risk that interest groups may put political pressure to enact measures that
weaken implementation, but the institutional strengthening of the SBIF is encouraging and is likely to
endure. Nevertheless rapid progress reflects in part the personal comnmlitment of the current Superintendent
whose tenure extends to November 2005. Should the Superintendent be replaced by someone less
committed and transparent, some of the gains could be eroded. Factors that suggest continued strengthening
of the SBIF include: (i) the new SBIF law gives more autonomy and authority to the Superintendent; (ii)
strong support to the SBIF through the improvement plan jointly developed and supported by IDA, IDB
and the IMF; and (iii) emphasis on capacity building through the development of a stable cadre of
technically capable staff. In the future, strengthening the judicial system will be key to ensuring a strong
financial system and a strong SBIF.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactorv. IDA's performance during credit preparation was satisfactory. As discussed above the credit
objectives were of high priority for both the Government and the CAS. IDA worked very closely with the
authorities in the preparatory phase, the IDA team was highly qualified and included financial specialists,
economist and public sector specialist In addition, with grant funding, IDA provided experienced resident
consultants that assisted the Government team in preparing the BANADES privatization through
successive auctioning of branches. Furthermore, IDA engaged highly qualified experts in banking
supervision to develop a detailed Supervision Action Plan. IDA staff maintained very close contact with
Nicaraguan counterparts and conducted several missions during this phase. There was continuity in
staffing, the principal financial specialist on the team had worked on the Nicaraguan financial sector for
several years and in addition to having a very clear understanding of the country's financial sector, he
commanded a high degree of credibility with members of the new Government. This was a very important
factor in conducting an effective policy dialogue with the new authorities. While there was no formal sector
work, the President's Report included an annex describing the financial sector in Nicaragua which provided
a good overview of the sector, its recent evolution and regulatory and policy challenges.
IDA performance during project appraisal was also satisfactory. The team was essentially the same team
'that conducted the preparation. The Government demonstrated commitment to the project by
closing/liquidating BANADES prior to appraisal. It also showed commitment to the privatization of
BANIC by contracting the advisory services of IFC and submitting BANIC's privatization law to
Congress. The Superintendent during this phase did not show commitment to the program, and while this
was regrettable. There was good collaboration with the IMF and IDB throughout program preparation
and implementation. A policy-based credit was the right instrument to achieve the proposed reform
objectives. The credit incorporated the lessons leamed from previous Bank and IDB interventions in the
sector, which clearly showed that administrative improvements and credit limits were inadequate
instruments to deal with the problem of the state banks.
- 12 -



7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactorv. IDA supervision requirements were fully met. The reporting of program implementation
progress was adequate. In addition to twice a year supervision missions, IDA country management held
important discussions with the Government during the Annual Meetings in 1998 and 1999, and during
CPPR meetings in May 1999. IDA detected problems and offered timely advice. However, as mentioned
above (4.2 c), IDA should have acted more forcefully in its efforts to persuade the Government to adopt its
recommendations to address concerns regarding inadequate safeguards during the BANIC privatization
process. Once post-capitalization problems became apparent, IDA acted decisively and appropriately
withholding disbursement until a financial evaluation was conducted and it was clear that there was no
evidence of improper behavior by high Government officials or that (as alleged by opponents of the
privatization) proceeds from BANIC loans had been channeled to those who participated in the
capitalization. IDA was in a difficult situation since the Government had in effect complied with the
condition of bringing BANIC to the point of sale and there was initial resistance to conduct the financial
evaluation on the part of the new investors. However, IDA persisted and the outcome was positive for the
program and for Government-donor relations. All conditions were met and there were no waivers.
IDA's supervision of the component to strengthen the regulatory framework was highly satisfactory. IDA
staff developed excellent working relations with all major participants in the banldng sector and maintained
good communication with all sectors including private bankers. The authorities regularly request IDA staff
advice. The relationship intensified with the appointmnent of the new Superintendent. IDA staff provided
critical inputs to deal effectively with the banking crisis and worked closely with IDB and IMF staff
carrying out joint missions and coordinating work programs. A study of options and recommendations for
bank exit, crisis resolution and structure of resolution agencies and deposit insurance was carried out with
IDA support in June 1999. The study provided the basis for the Deposit Insurance Law enacted in
December 2000.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactorv. IDA played a major role in the reform of the financial sector. Through policy analysis, advice,
and timely financial support, IDA helped the Aleman. administration take the decision to radically reduce
state banking and simultaneously strengthen the environment for private banldng. Without IDA's
involvement, it is unlikely that the financial system reform would have gone ahead with the overall policy
coherence and speed of implementation that was achieved.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactor. The Government performance during the preparation phase was satisfactory. The MOF and
BCN acted promptly to change BANADES' management and put in place a competent manager with the
mission to close the bank. The BCN provided a qualified technical team to support the privatization. The
authorities worked closely with Bank staff and consultants to solve any problems. There was also good
collaboration in the development of the Superintendency Action Plan and on the privatization of BANIC.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government implementation performance with respect to BANADES was highly
satisfactory. Despite opposition from the first Superintendent, the Government implemented all regulatory
changes required in the Supervision Action Plan in a timely manner and its overall performance with regard
to bankdng supervision was satisfactory. In the case of BANIC, Government performance was weak,
because it did not provide adequate oversight to BANIC's management, in particular it failed to ensure
BANIC's compliance with the moratorium on new credits during the privatization period. Furthermore, it
- 13 -



should have changed the Government's representatives in BANIC when evidence of mismanagement first
surfaced. The Government acted in good faith in pursuing the independent financial evaluation and in
taking actions against the former managers once the evaluation results were available.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactorv. With the exception of the weaknesses in implementation of the BANIC privatization process,
the overall performance of the Ministry of Finance was satisfactory (see section 5.3).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The weak performance with regard to the BANIC component notwithstanding, the overall
level of Government commitment and implementation of the financial sector reform process was
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The FSAC underscores several lessons with regard to the privatization of state banks:
*   Successful privatization of state banks is possible even in a very difficult environment. Sequential
auction of individual branches, as occurred with BANADES, is an approach that allows privatization
of a large state bank while ensuring continuity of service.
*   The sale of 1 00 percent of the state bank should be sought Retaining partial state ownership can limit
the probability of attracting a high-quality buyer and may weaken the bank's post-privatization
performance.
*   Once the decision to privatize a bank has been adopted, the day-to-day management should be
replaced by a competent transitional management or very closely supervised by independent parties.
*   The quality of the buyer is the most important element to ensure a good post-privatization outcome.
Prequalification requirements should restrict participation to well-capitalized and experienced banks.
A management contract with a bank is a poor substitute for sale of ownership.
*   Intensive IDA involvement in supervising the process is necessary, particularly in a setting with weak
govemance institutions. Loan proceeds should be disbursed only after careful review of the
privatization transaction.
*   The recovery of residual assets is a difficult problem for which private sector involvement should be
sought.
Lessons with regard to strengthening the Supervisory function:
*   In the event of Govemment commitment to reform but resistance from some parties, engagement
instead of withdrawal can have positive results.
*   On-site assisted inspections can be a very valuable tool to improve the quality of inspections, train
local staff and detect problem banks.
* It is important to keep good communication channels with all sectors: Superintendency, Central Bank,
Ministry of Finance and private bankers.
*   Close coordination of the intemational financial institutions in providing advice and technical
assistance is key to achieve common institutional strengthening objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments are based on interviews during ICR mission.
- 14 -



The major accomplishments of the FSAC can be summarized as:
(i) significant reform of the financial legislation which would not have been possible without IDA's
assistance;
(ii) improved capacity of the authorities to deal with banking crisis;
(iii) a stronger banking sector, better capitalized and managed, more efficient credit allocation, better risk
management;
(iv) a stronger superintendency that can detect problems in a timely manner and take appropriate measures;
(v) reduction of quasi-fiscal losses by privatizing/liquidating state banks.
IDA's assistance was invaluable in the attainment of the accomplishments listed above. The IFC acted
appropriately and the Government appreciates its assistance in selling BANIC. The main shortcoming of
the privatization was not selling 100 percent of the shares. Local banks should not have been allowed to bid
as they did not intend to make a positive bid and their only interest was obtaining first hand information on
BANIC's portfolio in order to attract BANIC's best clients. In hindsight the Government should have
changed BANIC's management when the bank was privatized. IDA acted appropriately in withholding
disbursement of the third tranche until the independent financial evaluation was completed. However,
tranche release was delayed until June 2000, almost 6 months after the results of the audit were available
and this further delay was excessive.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Although the FSAC was not formally co-financed, the project benefited from simultaneous and
complimentary activities financed in parallel by the IDB and the IMF, both of which support the
conclusions of this ICR Close coordination among IDA, IDB and IMF has been a decisive factor in
furthering the financial sector reform process in Nicaragua.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR mission interviewed private bankers in Nicaragua. The main perceptions of the private sector
were: (i) the elimination of state banking has been a major element in developing a stronger banking sector
as it has allowed the expansion of the private sector, eliminated the non-repayment culture and leveled the
playing field; (ii) there has been a major improvement in the regulatory framework and in the quality of the
inspections of the Superintendency. The SBIF is a more professional and transparent institution. Key to
future progress will be improvements in the capacity of the inspectors.
Regarding IDA's performance, a very positive element has been IDA's open and frequent dialogue with the
sector. IDA acted well in preparing and supervising BANADES' privatization, which was transparent and
fair. IDA and IFC failed to appropriately supervise the privatization of BANIC.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
N/A
-16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
N/A
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage"of Project Cycle                 No.-of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating ...
(e.g. 2 Economi ts, i  FMS etc.) '  Implementation Development
, 'Month/Yi ear  Count         Speciality                    Progress      Objecth e
Identification/Preparation
July 1997                   4    Task Manager                       S             S
Financial Speacialist
Public Sector Modernization
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1998               6    Task Manager                       S             S
2 PSM Specialists
Legal
Country Econmist,
Procurement adviser,
Consultant
Supervision
May 1998                     3   Public Sector Management           S             S
Sr. Financial Specialist
Economist
July 1998                    1   Public Sector Management           S             S
Specialist
February 1999                3   Financial Specialists              S             S
June 1999                    2   Financial Specialists              S              S
ICR
April 2001                   2    Economist                         S              S
Financial Sector Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
-_________,- _____':,_____       No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              39.10                      122.80
Appraisal/Negotiation                   65.50                      153.20
Supervision                             29.22                       69.90
ICR
T o tal__                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                       O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Fi Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
OII Physical                           O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
OZ Financial                           O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
El Institutional Development           O H  O SU O M   O N   0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
EL Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Ol Private sector development          0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OL Public sector management            0 H  O SU *M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
-20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS      OU     OHU
OI Supervision                                     OHS OS      O    U  OQHU
rO1 Overall                                        OHS OS      O    U  Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
OI Preparation                                     OHS OS      O U    O HU
OI Government implementation performance           O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance               O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS      0 U    O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- Report P7232 NI, President's Report Nicaragua Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, April 9, 1998
- Office Memorandum, BTOR (and annexes) Nicaragua, from Fernando De Mergelina, July 20, 1999
- Inforrne del Sistema Financiero Nacional, Superintendencia de Bancos y de Otras Instituciones
Financieras Nicaragua, C.A. several issues
- Information Note on the Financial Evaluation of BANIC issued by the Ministry of Finance of Nicaragua
- De Mergelina, Femando, The Nicaraguan Banking Sector, September 2000
- Rosenthal, Violeta and De Mergelina, Fernando, Working Papers of Implementation Completion Report
Team
- 22 -



Additional Annex 8. Status of Policy Actions
OBJECTIVES              POLICY ACTION REQUIRED         IMPLEMENTATION/ACTUAL
STATUS
1. Macroeconomic Framework
Ensure an appropriate          Maintain supportive             First and second annual
macroeconomic framework        macroeconomic framework.        arrangement under the PRGF
completed. Arrived at the
enhanced HIPC decision point in
December 2000. Agreement on a
program under the third annual
arrangement was not reached.
Staff-Monitored Program for June
-December 2001 not successful.
Current government (since
January 2002) now working with
IMF on new three-year PRGF.
11. BANADES
SBIF shall have revoked        Operating license revoked on
BANADES' license to operate as a  February 27, 1998. Bank closed
financial institution          by Law 294 of June 30, 1998
111. BANIC
A majority of BANIC shares (with  On January 19, 1999, 36,000
management control) has been    BANIC shares representing 50.7
brought to the point of sale to the  percent of the Bank sold to
private sector.                INIBSA for USS11,052,000. Bank
recapitalized in May 2000
reducing Government's share to
32 percent. Bank intervened by
SBIF on August 4, 2001. Deposits
and attractive assets auctioned on
August 5, 2001, the wining bid
being BANPRO. Other assets and
liabilities transferred to BCN.
IV. Other Public Financial
Institutions
SBIF shall have verified        On November 7, 1998, SBIF
compliance by the commercial    passed a resolution requiring 100
banks of their loan loss        percent loan loss provisioning on
provisioning obligations in respect  BANADES debtors. SBIF verified
of loans to customers which are  compliance.
also State Bank Debtors and shall
in the event of any
non-compliance, apply the
corresponding fines thereto.
Banco Popular shall have refrained
from increasing the size of its
portfolio to an amount higher than
US$19 million equivalent and the
- 23 -



Borrower shall have refrained
from providing any cash transfers
or bonds for the capitalization of
Banco Popular.
V. Supervision of Banks
SBIF shall have made progress,  (a)(i) Diagnoses completed on the
satisfactory to IDA, in the   solvency situation of all banks and
implementation of the Bank   two finance corporations. The
Supervision Action Plan, including  diagnoses were conducted by the
in particular, the SBIF shall have  SBIF, reviewed and complemented
(a) (i) finalized a diagnostic  by subsequent assessments of the
situation of all commercial banks;  Central Bank of Nicaragua.
(ii) based on such diagnostic,  (ii) Based on the SBIF's diagnoses
instructed any of the banks which  and Central Bank assessment, the
do not meet SBIF solvency     SBIF Council adopted Resolution
regulations to take the measures  83 on October 30, 1998 with
necessary to restore compliance  instructions on measures to be
with such regulations;        taken by Banco del Cafe to achieve
compliance with regulations.
Based on the diagnoses the SBIF
worked with several banks to
identify weaknesses.
(b) adopted prudential regulations,  (b) New prudential norms on
satisfactory to IDA, for capital  capital adequacy approved by the
adequacy and related party    SBIF Council on October 2,1998.
lending, revised existing risk  Capital adequacy increased from
concentration prudential      8-10 percent. New prudential
regulations to set forth the  norm approved on June 1, 1998
required provisioning and adopted  relating to the evaluation and
a prudential regulation for   classification of bank assets
evaluation and classification of  establishing A:0%,
assets, including provisioning  B:5%,C:20%,D:70%,E:100%.
requirements                  The prudential norm risk
concentration was revised by the
SBIF Council on June 30, 1998.
(c) adopted the Inspection    Credit limits: maximum 15% of
Strengthening Plan.           capital base for individuals, 30%
for economic groups and 25% for
borrowers related to the bank.
New prudential norms on related
party lending approved by the
SBIF until on October 2, 1998.
Delayed due to opposition from
previous Superintendent. In-site
assisted inspection program
initiated in June 2000 with new
Superintendent. Program is
having good results and will be
continued with IDA and IDB
-24 -



funding.
(d) completed a study of options
and recommendations for bank  (d) Completed in early June 1999.
exit, crisis resolution, structure of  In early July 1999, IDA staff
resolution agencies, and deposit  discussed draft Deposit Insurance
insurance, and approved action  Law with Government and
plan to strengthen the banking  bankers. A Deposit Insurance Law
safety network.                containing provisions regarding
bank exit, crisis resolution and
structure of resolution agencies
. __________________________   approved  in  January  2001.
-25 -



Additional Annex 9. Bank Supervision Action Plan
Action                          Actions taken during Credit (all conditions  Actions taken after Credit closing
were complied with during Credit period)
L. Program of Immediate Measures
1. Diagnosis of bank solvency.  Diagnoses completed on the solvency situation In year 2000 the SBIF
a) Establish a Financial Analysis  of all banks and two finance companies, starting inspected each institution
Unit within SBFI (February 13,  with the three commercial banks with the  twice instead of only once a
1998).                         largest increase in the number of operating  ear as had been done
b) SBIF to initiate a diagnosis of the branches in 1997 (Bancentro, Banco de  previously. The quality of
solvency of all private commercial  Finanzas, and Banco del Cafe). The diagnoses the inspections has
banks. (March 1, 1998).        were conducted by the SBIF, reviewed and  improved significantly (see
complemented by subsequent assessments of the Institutional Strengthening
Central Bank of Nicaragua. Based on the  elow). The SBIF plans to
SBIF's diagnoses and Central Bank assessment, continue to carry out a
he SBIF Council adopted Resolution 83 on  minimum of two inspections
October 30, 1998 with instructions on measures er institution per year.
to be taken by Banco del Cafe to achieve
compliance with regulations. Based on the
diagnosis the SBIF worked with several banks tc
identify weaknesses.
The SBIF initiated in June 2000 a program of
'assisted inspections" pairing its staff with
nternational banking experts to conduct
intensive reviews of banks and finance
companies.
2. Strengthening banking safety  Completed in early June 1999. In early July  A Deposit Insurance Law
network.                        1999, IDA staff discussed draft Deposit  containing provisions
a) Complete a study of options with Insurance Law with Government and bankers. regarding bank exit, crisis
recommendations for bank exit, crisi                                     esolution and structure of
resolution, structure of Resolution                                     Resolution Agencies
Agencies and deposit insurance                                          approved in January 2001
(September 30, 1998). SBIF to                                           and entered into effect in
approve action plan to strengthen                                        une 2001.
banking safety network (December
15, 1998).
I. Regulatory Strengthening
3. Market access and licensing                                          Included in Law 314 of
Issue a new prudential norm on                                          October 18, 1999, General
market access and licensing by Mary                                     Law on Banks, Non-Bank
15, 1998.                                                               Financial Institutions and
Financial Groups. Bank
minimum capital US$10
million, compliance period
is 3 years from 4/2000. The
law clarifies requirements
for opening branches and
facilitates presence of
foreign bank branches and
offices.
4. Capital adequacy.           New prudential norms on capital adequacy  Included in Law 314 of
-26 -



Issue new prudential norm on capital approved by the SBIF Council on October 2,  October 18, 1999. Full
adequacy by May 15, 1998.      1998. Capital adequacy increased from 8 to 10 compliance with new
percent,                               requirement by all banks by
June 2000.
5. Evaluation and classification of  New prudential norm approved on June 1, 1998
assets.                       relating to the evaluation and classification of
(As per modification) Issue new  bank assets establishing A:0%, B:5%, C:20%,
prudential norm by credit      D:70%, E:100%.
effectiveness.  _.
6. Risk concentration.        The prudential norm on risk concentration was Provision incorporated in
a) By May 15, 1998, the SBIF will  revised by the SBIF Council on June 30, 1998, Law 314.
produce quarterly reports on the  with credit limits: maximum 15% of capital
progressive elimination of risk  base for individuals; 30% for economic groups
concentration limit exception, to be  and 25% for borrowers related to the bank.
completely eliminated by June 2000.
b) The SBIF will issue an
amendment to the prudential norm -
on concentration of risks by May 15,
1998 establishing 100% provisions
for loans above risk concentration
limit.
7. Related party lending.     New prudential norms on related party lending Provision incorporated in
Issue a prudential norm to restrict  approved by the SBIF Council on October 2,  Law 314.
bank transactions with related parties 1998.
by May 15, 1998 that will be   Credit limit of 60% of the capital base.
effective by January 1, 2000.
Law 314 also incorporates
limits on contingent
operations, prohibitions
against ownership in
non-banking entities, and
prohibitions against holding
repossessed assets for more
than 2 years.
IIL Insttutional Strengthening
a) Strengthen the capacity of the  On October 19, 1998 the SBIF Council  a)To be carried out under the
insurance division to effectively  adopted Resolution 81 which enunciates the  Nicaragua Pension and Financial
supervise the insurance sector (July  core elements of the plan to strengthen  System Reform Technical
15, 1998).                     banking supervision and directs the     Assistance Credit (Cr. 3344-NI).
b) Adopt an initiate a program  Superintendency to finalize its details by  b) Continued implementation of
(May 15, 1998) to strengthen and  November 30,1998. Implementation of this  assisted inspections program with
extend on-site bank inspections.  component was delayed because of opposition  funding of Cr. 3344-NI and from
c) Complete development of the  of former Superintendent. Program of   IDB and coordination with IMF.
Credit Risk Evaluation Facility  assisted on-site bank inspections which  c) Being carried out under Cr.
within the SBIF, to provide full an  includes:                         3344-NI, priority.
immediate access to this data to all  (i) comprehensive review of operations and
financial intermediaries (September  plans: review of at least 75% of total loan
15, 1998).                     portfolio, accounting, management, etc;
(ii) assessment of repossessed collateral, fixed
assets, the investment portfolio and assets
held by off-shore institutions.
(iii) review of risk concentration of the bank's
portfolio;
-27 -



(iv) extrapolation of the average risk ratio to
the entire loan portfolio; and
(v) the prompt and timely submission of
inspection results to the SBIF Council with
recommendations for action.
-28 -












IMAGING
Report No.:        24435
Type:     ICR



