Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3056-1-NI
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between the
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3056-1-NI
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit) dated May 15, 1998 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing assistance in support of 
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further assistance 
toward the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such further additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
changing the amount “SDR11,100,000” to the amount “SDR12,100,000”. 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies totaling the equivalent of 
fifty-two million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR52,800,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in 
various 
currencies equivalent to fifty-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR51,800,000 and a supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,000,000) (the Additional 
Financing).”.
Section 1.03. The following new paragraph is added at the end of Section 2.02 of 
the Development Credit Agreement:
“(f) After the date twelve months following the date of the Agreement 
providing for 
the Additional Financing (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly 
notify to the Borrower), no withdrawals shall be made 
from the Credit Account in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Additional Financing.  At any time 
after such date, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the 
Additional Financing 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any part thereof.”.
Section 1.04. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement, reading as follows:
“, except that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall 
accrue from a 
date sixty days after the date of the Agreement providing for such 
Additional Financing;”. 
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
April 22, 1999, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section.  If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed.
Section 2.05. Except as specifically modified by this Agreement, all terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect until terminated as provided for therein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  3
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
