Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3056-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 15, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3056-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 9, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
an adjustment of the Borrower’s financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“ ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit.”; and (g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as 
modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 
and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks” means the plan adopted by SBIF 
on March 11, 1998 addressing, inter alia, in respect of banks and other financial 
institutions operating in the Borrower’s territory, capital adequacy, asset 
classification and provisioning, risk concentration, exemptions to individual lending 
limits, lending to related parties and provision of other financial services to third 
parties; 
(b)
“BANADES” means Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, the Borrower’s development 
bank established pursuant to Law No. 4393 published in La Gaceta (as defined below) on 
October 15, 1993; 
(c)
“BANADES Floating Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR11,100,000 to be released by the Association upon compliance by 
the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Banco Popular” means Banco de Crédito Popular, the Borrower’s bank 
established pursuant to Law No. 331 published in La Gaceta on April 14, 1972;
(e)
“BANIC” means Banco Nicaragüense de Industria y Comercio, Sociedad 
Anónima, the bank owned by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 25 
published in La Gaceta on August 24, 1979;
(f)
“BANIC Floating Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR11,100,000 to be released by the Association upon compliance by 
the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (e) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Central Bank” means Banco Central de Nicaragua, the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
Page  3
(h)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR29,600,000 to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date;
(j)
“Inspection Strengthening Plan” means a plan, acceptable to the 
Association, to be adopted by SBIF (as defined below), for:  (i)  increasing the 
review of: (A) within twelve months of the date of adoption of the plan, individual 
loans inspected to at least 50% of the total portfolio of the respective banks; (B) 
the operations of banks with offshore financial institutions; and (C) the compliance 
of risk concentration limits by all banks; (ii) extrapolating from such reviews the 
financial situation of the sector; and (iii) promptly thereafter, making 
recommendations to its council for actions to improve the performance of such banks; 
(k)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette; 
(l)
“SBIF” means the Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras, 
the Borrower superintendency established pursuant to Law No. 125 published in La 
Gaceta on April 10, 1991; and 
(m)
“State Banks Debtors” means the debtors whose debts are referred to in 
SBIF’s Resolution No. XXXIII-1-95 of September 29, 1995.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty-one million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR51,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in the Central Bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section in respect of 
the First Tranche, and to the provisions of paragraphs (c), and (d) or (e) of this 
Section as the case may be, in respect of the BANADES Floating Tranche or the BANIC 
Floating Tranche, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account in respect of the 
BANADES Floating Tranche unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
(ii)
that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the 
objectives of the Program; and 
Page  4
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Part A,  to this 
Agreement have been 
taken.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved, the macroeconomic 
framework, and actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after 
such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the amount of the BANADES Floating Tranche.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account in respect of the 
BANIC Floating Tranche, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;   
(ii)
that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the 
objectives of the Program; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Part B, to this 
Agreement have been 
taken.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved, the macroeconomic framework 
and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory 
to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the amount of the BANIC Floating Tranche. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2008, and ending March 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The President of the Central Bank, or any person he or she may 
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Page  6
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions namely that SBIF shall have adopted prudential 
regulations, satisfactory to the Association, for evaluation and classification of 
assets and loan loss provisioning. 
Section 5.02. The date August 13, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional 
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
BCN 2391
           2322
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Page  7
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre Sacasa 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
Page  8
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) and (e) of this Agreement
Part A:
BANADES Floating Tranche 
1.
SBIF shall have revoked BANADES’ license to operate as a financial institution. 
2.
SBIF shall have verified compliance by the commercial banks of their loan loss 
provisioning obligations in respect of loans to customers which are also State Bank 
Debtors and shall, in the event of any non-compliance, applied the corresponding fines 
thereto. 
3.
(a)
Banco Popular shall have refrained from increasing the size of its 
portfolio to an amount higher than $19,000,000 equivalent; and
(b)
the Borrower shall have refrained from providing any cash or bond 
contributions for the capitalization of Banco Popular.
4.
SBIF shall have made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in the 
implementation of the Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks including, in 
particular, that SBIF shall have: 
(a)
(i)
finalized a diagnostic of the solvency situation of the three 
commercial banks 
which, during the period January 1, 1997 through 
January 31, 1998, had the 
highest increase in the number of 
operating branches; and 
(ii)
based on such diagnostic instructed any bank which does not meet 
SBIF’s 
prudential regulations to take the measures that are 
required to restore 
compliance with such regulations;
(b)
(i)
adopted prudential norms, satisfactory to the Association, for 
related party 
lending and capital adequacy; and
(ii)
revised the existing risk concentration prudential regulation to 
set forth the 
provisioning requirements; and
(c)
adopted the Inspection Strengthening Plan.
Part B:
BANIC Floating Tranche
1.
BANIC shall have brought to the point of sale to private investors shares of its 
capital stock:
(a)
in numbers representing a percentage of the total number of shares higher 
than 50; and
Page  9
(b)
with voting rights enabling the transfer of the management control of 
BANIC to the prospective owner of such shares. 
2.
SBIF shall have verified compliance by the commercial banks of their loan loss 
provisioning obligations in respect of loans to customers which are also State Bank 
Debtors and shall, in the event of any non-compliance, applied the corresponding fines 
thereto. 
3.
(a)
Banco Popular shall have refrained from increasing the size of its 
portfolio to an amount higher than $19,000,000 equivalent; and
(b)
the Borrower shall have refrained from providing any cash or bond 
contributions for the capitalization of Banco Popular.
4.
SBIF shall have made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in the 
implementation of the Action Plan for the Supervision of Banks including, in 
particular, that SBIF shall have:
(a)
taken the actions required in Part A.4 (b) of this Schedule; and 
(b)
(i)
finalized a diagnostic of the solvency situation of  all 
commercial banks and 
other financial institutions; and 
(ii)
based on such diagnostic, instructed any bank which does not meet 
SBIF’s 
prudential regulations to take the measures that are 
required to restore 
compliance with such regulations.
