CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 279 IN
Project Agreement
(Gorakhpur Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 279 IN
Project Agreement
(Gorakhpur Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,         dated       January   7, 1972,             between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called
FCI).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that FCI agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FCI, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to FCI on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS FCI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Toyo" means Toyo Engineering Corporation, Kasumigascki Building
2-5, 3-Chome, Kasumigascki, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, Japan;
(b)   "Benfield" means Benfield Corporation, 666 Washington Road,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15228, U.S.A.;


﻿4
(c)   "SIRM" means Shell International Research Maatachappy N.V., The
Hague, Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FCI shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering prac(ices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose. FCI will use its best efforts t.- carry
out the Project by August 1, 1974, in accordance with the Critical Path Schedule
and, in that regard, will give special attention to critical equipment procurement
times.
Section 2.02. In order to assist FCI in process and engineering design,
equipment selection, construction and start-up, FCI shall obtain process licenses,
plant design and consultant services acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   in carrying out the Project, act as managing contractor. In addition,
FCI shall employ such competent and experienced contractors as are necessary
to carry out the Project, after having obtained competitive bids whenever possible.
1   employ, for the duration of the Project, a suitably qualified and
exper,   -d Project Manager to be responsible for budget and schedule control
and f. .-;al engineering, procurement, and construction duties, and provide the
Project Manager with adequate staff and facilities to carry out such functions;
(c)   give due notice to the Association before making any changes in the
position of the Project Manager in the Gorakhpur Plant;
(d)   appoint a suitably qualified successor to assure an orderly transition
if it appears that a vacancy will occur in the position of the General Manager
prior to start of commercial production; and
(e)   promptly   enter into   satisfactory  arrangements with  Indian Oil
Corporation for supply of naphtha and the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
for supply of electricity so as to ensure such supplies in quantities sufficient for
the full utilization of the facilities to be constructed under the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.04. (a) FCI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the equipment and materials to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards ificident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by FCI
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall cause all
equipment, materials and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borr-.:wer to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FCI shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   FCI shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the equipment and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the equipment financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the equipment,
materials and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. FCI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the Supplementary Loan Agreements, if any. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. FCI shall, under agreements with Toyo, Benfield and SIRM,
obtain process licenses, plant designs and consultant services, acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FCI
Section 3.01. (a) FCI shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and engineering practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate competent staff.


﻿6
(b)   FCI shall fill any open positions in connection with the Project
promptly as they become vacant by experienced, competent personnel.
(c)   FCI shall take all necessary steps, including in particular limiting its
indebtedness (excluding debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and
payable on demand or not more than one year after the date of such determination),
to maintain a long-term debt-equity ratio not greater than 50:50 and to maintain
an adequate liquidity position consistent with the provisions of Section 4.03 of
this Agreement.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   The term   "long-term  debt" means all debt maturing after one year
from the date of such determination; and
(b)   The term   "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in share capital plus
accumulated earnings or losses from prior fiscal years not set apart for specific
purposes.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land a4dL.ther..properties and
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering practices;
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking; and
(d)   not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memorandum           of
Association in any way that will materially and adversely affect its ability to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.03. FCI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FCI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. FCI shall (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the
Association, prepared by independent and competent auditors in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, (ii) furnish to the Association
certified copies of said audit in such scope and detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested as soon as available but in any case, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year,
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
30 days after the end of each of the four quarters unaudited financial statements
(balance sheets, statement of income and expenses and related statements) as of
the end of the quarter, and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FCI and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI (i) shall
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at ie,  2: 1; (ii) shall
not declare dividends or prepay any debt if, after the payment of such dividend
(assuming such payment was made on the date of such declaration) or debt, the
ratio of FCI's current assets to current liabilities shall be less than 1.5:1; and (iii)
shall not cause nor permit its Gorakhpur Unit to prepay any of its outstanding
debts or to transfer amounts from its accounts to the rest of FCI's accounts, if
such prepayment or transfer would reduce the Gorakhpur Unit's ratio of current
assets to current liabilities below  1.1:1.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   The term    "current assets" means stock of spares, cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of projects and for additions to fixed
assets), assets readily convertible into cash, and all other assets which could in
the ordinary course of business be converted within one year into cash or assets
readily convertible into cash.
(b)   The term   "current liabilities" means liabilities due and payable and
all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could be called for payment,
within one year including the portion of long-term indebtedness falling due within
one year.


﻿8
(c)   The term "debt" does not include debt payable on demand or maturing
not more than one year after its date.
Section 4.04. FCl shall (a) maintain separate accounts for the Gorakhpur
Unit and consolidated accounts for all its operations; (b) prepare annually
consolidated source and application of funds statements for FCl and prepare
quarterly and annually source and application of funds statements for the
Gorakhpur Unit; (c) furnish to the Association quarterly, forecast budgets of
operations and cash flow for FCI and for the Gorakhpur Unit; and (d) consult
with the Association for reviewing and, where necessary, improving its accounting
system and management information system and shall implement mutually agreed
improvements as promptly as sound financial management practices permit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and FCI shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and FCI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of FCI and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and FCI shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
FCI of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
Supplementary Loan Agreements, if any.
Section 5.03. FCI shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plans, sites, works, properties and equipment of FCI and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of FCI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify FCI of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For FCI:
Fertilizer Corporation of India
F-43, South Extension Area Part I
Ring Road
New Delhi - 49
Cablc address:
Fertilizer
New Delhi
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of FCI may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as FCI shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. FCI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of FCI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by FCI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


