CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 279 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Gorakhpur Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANAURY 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 279 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Gorakhpur Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANAURY 7,1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       January    7,   1972, between INDIA, acting by
its  President  (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Fertilizer Corporation of India
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the Fertilizer Corporation of India, inter alia, the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the As,ociation and the Fertilizer Corporation of India;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President.";


﻿4
(d)   The words ", tie Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(e)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "FCI" means the Fertilizer Corporation of India, a corporation
incorporated in 1961 under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of India;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and FCI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and all schedules thereto, if any;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FCI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
and "Supplementary Loan Agreements" means the agreements the Borrower and
FCI may enter into pursuant to the proviso of said Section, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and all schedules thereto, if any;
(d)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower;
(e)   "Gorakhpur Unit" means the ammonia-urea factory of FCI which is
located in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh; and
(f)   "Critical Path Schedule" means the time schedule set out in the
following drawing, which was prepared by FCI:
Date                      Drawing No.                       Title
October 1971                IE/CPM/9 Rev. 1              Critical Path Network
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($ 10,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1982 and ending December 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FCI to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds
(an investment presently estimated at Rs 120 million inclusive of initial working
capital and interest during construction), facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose, including any required funds which are in excess of
the present cost estimate. Funds equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit shall
be provided in the form of debt pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The


﻿6
remaining funds within the said present cost estimate shall be provided in the form
of equity. Funds in excess of the present cost estimate, if needed, shall be provided
with at least half as equity.
(b)  The Borrower shall lend the funds equivalent to the proceeds of the
Credit to FCI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and FCI under terms and conditions including inter alia the following:
(i) the loan will be repaid by FCI to the Borrower in ten equal annual installments
commencing three years from the date of each withdrawal; and (ii) interest,
including special charges, if any, shall be paid on the outstanding balance from
time to time at the rate of 8.5% per annum; provided that if the Borrower lends
further funds to FCI pursuant to the Borrower's undertaking under the preceding
paragraph, it shall do so under supplementary loan agreements on terms and
conditions normally applicable to Borrower's loans to FCI.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable FCI to perform all of
its obligations under the Project Agreement (including the carrying out of the
Project in accordance with the Critical Path Schedule) and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist FCI in process and engineering design,
equipment selection, construction and start-up, the Borrower shall cause FCI to
obtain process licenses, plant designs and consultant services acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause FCI to
employ such competent and experienced contractors as are necessary to carry out
the Project, after having obtained competitive bids whenever possible.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as stated in Section 3.04 (b) or (c) of this Agreement
or except as the Association shall otherwise agree, equipment and associated services
required for the Project shall be procured on the basis of international competition
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in


﻿7
May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower may      reserve  certain  specified  equipment from
procurement by international competition and procure such equipment from Indian
suppliers, provided that such equipment can be provided in a timely fashion and
can meet the quality specifications of the Project. The estimated cost of such items
is Rs 3,000,000 equivalent.
(c)   For purposes of standardization of equipment, procurement of certain
specified equipment may be made directly from the Borrower's foreign suppliers.
The estimated cost of such equipment is $400,000 equivalent.
(d)   If at any time it becomes evident that any equipment or material
cannot be delivered on or prior to its scheduled delivery date, and that such delay
would adversely affect completion of the Project consistent with Section 2.01 of
the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly take all steps necessary to
permit the procurement of such equipment or material by international shopping
or other procedures which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) When, with respect to any equipment to be procured under
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement: (i) the lowest evaluated bid is a Foreign Bid
(as defined in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower
shall promptly grant permission to import the necessary goods without
reconsideration of the eligibility of the items for importation; and (ii) the lowest
evaluated bid is a Local Bid (as defined in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement), the Borrower shall promptly grant permission to import the materials
necessary to the performance of the contract.
(b)   When FCI needs to import materials to operate the Gorakhpur Plant
up to full capacity, the Borrower shall promptly grant permission to import all
necessary materials at reasonable prices.
Section 3.06. (a) With respect to equipment and materials to be imported
pursuant to Section 3.04 or 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) promptly
upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required for such purposes; and (ii) make available,
or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which
shall be required for such purposes.
(b)   With respect to equipment to be procured pursuant to Section 3.05
(a) (ii) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, with respect to materials which


﻿8
are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials
promptly and in such quantities as shall be required for the timely completion
of the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all equipment, materials and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause FCI to: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the equipment and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reascnably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the equipment, materials and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause FCI to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of !and are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. In addition to the funds required by Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide FCI with:
(a)   sufficient funds to complete all ongoing projects and such other
projects as may be undertaken by FCI, on terms which shall be compatible with
FCI's sound financial position; and


﻿9
(b)   sufficient funds, from time to time, to enable FCI to maintain adequate
working capital, taking into account funds available to FCI from other sources.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain FCI in a sound financial position
and to that end, until the time the Project is ready for start of commercial
production, the Borrower shall: (a) cause FCI to maintain a long-term debt equity
ratio not greater than 50:50; and (b) take such action as may be necessary to
cause FCI to achieve and maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
as defined in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, of at least 1.2:1. After the
start of commercial production the Borrower shall use its best efforts to ensure
that the ratios set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section are maintained.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "long-term debt" means all debt maturing after one year
from the date of such determination; and
(b)   The term   "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in share capital plus
accumulated earnings or losses from prior fiscal years not set apart for specific
purposes.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause FCI to maintain adequate working
capital for the operation of the Gorakhpur Unit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall coonerate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by FCI of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of FCI and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and


﻿10
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, management and financial condition of FCI and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by FCI of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower or by FCI of their obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Supplementary Loan Agreements,
if any.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
wcrks, buildings, property and equipment of FCI and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿11
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the con ,rary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   FCI shall have failed to perform any obligation under the Project
Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that FC1 will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolutiop or disestablishment of FCI or for the suspension
of its operat 3ns.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
7.02 (a) or (c) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and FCI.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The followiig events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿12
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
FCI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and FCI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   FCI has entered into agreements referred to in Section 2.07 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, FCI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of FCI in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and FCI,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
FCI in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The   date April 6, 1972 is hereby    specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03, 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 16 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance or a Director of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Equipment procured by         6,800,000            100% of total ex-
international competi-                             penditures
tion
II.   Imported equipment for          400,000            100% of foreign
standardization                                    expenditures
III.  Engineering, Design           2,200,000            60% of total ex-
Erection and Commis-                               penditures
sioning
IV.   Unallocated                     600,000
TOTAL        10,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.


﻿15
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to November 1, 1971;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures for freight and insurance within the territories of the
Borrower.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   Any amounts in Categories 1, II and IV which are no longer required
therefor shall be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
amount allocated to Category III and the Association will increase correspondingly
(up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) the percentage of expenditures of Category
Il.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category III of this
Schedule shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the


﻿16
percentage then applicable under that Category in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion of FCI's facilities near Gorakhpur by
construction of additional facilities to increase total design capacity to about
314,000 tons per year of urea fertilizer.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 1, 1974, in accordance
with the Critical Path Schedule.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with respect to any contract
for goods and associated services includes in Category I of the table set out in
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, the Borrower shall cause FCI to:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by FCI to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and FCI shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, furnish to the Association, for its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and make such modifications in the said documents or procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to whom
it intends to award the contract and furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower and FCI whether it has any objection to the intended
award on the ground that it is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and if the Association, after receiving
the comments of the Borrower, determines that such inconsistency exists, the
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower and FCI of such determination
and the reasons therefor.
(d)   Ensure that the terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.


﻿19
(e)   Furnish to the Association two conformed copies of the contract
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account inl respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods, the Borrower shall cause FC]
to furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. If the Association,
after receiving the views of the Borrower, shall determine that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement, the Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
and FC1 and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Category I of the table set out inl paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement,
bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a)   The term   "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and


﻿20
(iii)       handling costs, inland freight, insurance and other costs of
delivery of such goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    Contracts for the goods and associated services included in Categury II of
the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be placed
through negotiations with Borrower's foreign suppliers.


