Document of
The World Bank                                FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3590-HI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LQAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $130.4 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE AND MECHANIZATION PROJECT
May 19, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982               March 1983
Currency Unit            Forint (Ft)
US$1             =       Ft 36.63                     Ft 40.00
Ftl              =       US$0.027                     US$0.025
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA          -           Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GT            -           Grain Trust
IKR           -           Industrial Maize Production System
KITE          -           Maize and Industrial Crops System
MEM           -           Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NBH           -           National Bank of Hungary



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
GRAIN STORAGE AND MECHANIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                National Bank of Hungary (NBI).
Guarantor:               Hungarian People's Republic.
Loan Amount;             US$130.4 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                   Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years' grace
period, through semi-annual installments. Interest at
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description;    The project is designed to increase grain production,
and decrease harvest losses through increased storage
capacity and modernized and more efficient storage
management and improve productivity through increased
investment in on-farm mechanization. As a result, the
project would aim to contribute to easing Hungary's
acute balance of payments problem through increased
exports of wheat and maize. Investments would be in
grain storage and mechanization for grain production
in the remaining 3-year period of the current
Five-Year National Development Plan. Investment in
on-farm storage and mechanization would be all in the
social sector, including State and cooperative farms.
Investment in off-farm storage would be carried out
by the Grain Trust, the State agency for grain
marketing. Minor expenditures for technical
assistance in grain handling, mechanization study
tours, development of a management information system
for major sub-borrowers, an agricultural price policy
study and future project preparation would also be
financed under the project. At full development in
1985/86, annual incremental amount of grain available
due to the project is estimated to be about 1.1
million tons, and the annual net incremental foreign
exchange earnings are estimated to be $115 million.
The project is expected to face no major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimates:
Local               Foreign             Total
Exchange
-----------------US$ Million------
Storage                             66.1                 51.2              117.3
Mechanization                       68.3                100.4               168.7
Technical Assistance                 0.1                  0.5                 0.6
Base Cost                          134.5                152.1              286.6
Physical Contingencies               4.1                  -                   4.1
Price Contingencies                 11.1                 11.4               22.5
Total Project Cost                 149.7                163.5              313.2
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan           -                    0.4                 0.4
Total Financing Required           149.7                163.9               313.61/
Financing Plan
Local             Foreign              Total
Exchange
----------------US  Million---------------
National Bank of Hungary            55.7                 33.5                89.2
Sub-borrowers                       94.0                  -                 94.0
IBRD                                   -                130.4              130.4
149.7               163.9               313.6
Estimated                            ------------------US$ Million-------------
Disbursement                FY    1984            1985         1986       1987
Annual                    15.4           56.0         46.0        13.0
Cumulative                15.4           71.4        117.4       130.4
Economic Rate of Return: About 24 percent
Appraisal Report:           No. 4373-HU, Date: May 16, 1983
EMENA Projects Department
1/   Including tax and duties of $18.0 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE AND MECHANIZATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) with the guarantee of the Hungarian
People's Republic, for the equivalent of US$130.4 million to help finance a
grain storage and mechanization project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, with interest at the standard variable
interest rate. About $130 million equivalent of the loan proceeds would be
on-lent by NBH for the grain storage and mechanization subprojects for 8 years
and 6 years, respectively, including one year of grace at 14 percent. The
Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk. Cofinancing of about US$100
million is being sought, all from commercial lending institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY.'
2.       Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first economic
mission visited the country in May/June 1982 and the Economic Report was
issued to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report No. 4174-HU).
Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is a
small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1981, covering
an area of 93,000 square km. Dissected by the Danube and bordered by five
countries (Austria to the West, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia to the North and
South, and Romania and the Soviet Union to the East) Hungary has historically
been a nexus of social, cultural, and trade linkages between East and West
Europe. It is a country of relatively meagre natural resource endowments,
although it has significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite and some
hydrocarbons, and advantageous conditions for some agricultural products. It
has a long history of industrialization in certain branches of industry
(notably textiles and other light industries), which has been extended in the
decades since World War II to the heavy industry branches, including
chemicals, metallurgy and engineering. The country has a homogenous
population with a single language. Being relatively small and without major
topographical diversity between regions, Hungary is not marked with regional
disparities in development. Incomes are also quite evenly distributed as a
matter of social policy, and most services are of a moderately high standard.
1/ This Part is identical to that contained in the President's Report for an
industrial energy diversification and conservation project which is being
submitted to the Executive Directors simultaneously with this proposed
project.



While on the whole the population enjoys a standard of living higher than many
countries in Eastern Europe, wage levels remain low, the choice of consumer
goods is relatively limited, and there are still major deficiencies in housing
and in access to potable water and sewerage facilities, particularly in rural
areas.
The Economic System
4.       The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment,
production and trade decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war
period when planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was
fully centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Planning remains a significant instrument in Hungary, and the
State uses the plan to set the framework for the economy. In the period since
1968, the year which marked the major break with the previous system, the
emphasis in reform has been twofold. on strengthening the influence of the
market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of "Economic
Regulators", through which the State maintains control of overall economic
activity. These regulators include credit control through the centralized
National Bank, which is the single source of credit for enterprises; price and
wage regulation through centrally determined formulae; and the regulation of
the net surplus from production through a series of fiscal measures and
control over enterprise reserve funds. Enterprises are free to make
independent investment decisions, but for larger investments for which credit
is needed from the National Bank, these are subject to the approval of the
central authorities. The State itself has direct control over certain
investments--State investments--generally in infrastructure and large capital
intensive plant, which are financed from budget sources through the State
Development Bank.
5.       The State-owned sector, comprising all enterprises, State farms and
agriculture cooperatives, accounts for some 90% of both investment and output
in the economy. Private activity is evident in the so-called "second economy"
in which individuals enter into production, trade and service activities for
their own benefit. The second economy is particularly important in
agriculture, where, for certain products, output from private holdings is a
large share of the total. In industry, also, there is an increasing practice
of workers in enterprises utilizing the industrial plant, out of hours, for
their own benefit. This has recently led to the establishing of specific
cooperatives for this purpose. These second economy activities are
encouraged, as a means to raise productivity, to increase capacity utilization
and to enhance personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP, (41% in
1981 with 41% of total employment), reflecting the more advanced degree of
industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high share of
heavy industry in total industrial output, (66% in 1981) reflecting the



- 3 -
emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries; (c) compared to
many developed countries, a relatively high share of the labor force employed
in agriculture (21% in 1981) implying that, in principle, significant scope
exists for productivity growth and further shifts of labor out of this sector;
(d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign trade (about 40%). The share of
transport, trade and services in GDP in 1981 accounted for 31%, and 39% of
total employment. Hungary's high degree of trade dependence makes it
vulnerable to shifts in world trade and prices, and is a principal factor
underlying the reforms which aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy
to changes in world markets. Hungary imports over half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. While
manufactures are important in total exports (65 % in 1981) these are more
important in the exports to the CMEA countries; the major share of exports to
convertible currency markets is comprised of agricultural commodities (about
33% in 1981) and semi-finished products (about 34%).
7.       Over the past decade the GDP has grown in real terms by an average of
5.2% per annum, led by industry (6.0% p.a.) and services (5.1% p.a.).
Agriculture grew less rapidly at around 3.3% p.a. The impact of these growth
trends on incomes and employment was influenced by Hungary's slow population
growth and by the general scarcity of labor in the country. The fact that
Hungary has an almost stagnant population, which grew by 0.35% per annum in
the period 1970-81, implies that growth in GDP has brought an almost equal
growth in per capita income. This has meant that in the past the State has
been able to maintain a high investment rate while still maintaining a
significant real increase in personal consumption, which grew by 4% per annum
over the past decade. However, wages remain low in Hungary, and in 1980 the
average wage in industry was Fts. 3,960 (equivalent to US$122) per month. The
equivalent wage in agriculture was Fts. 3,790 (US$110). Social benefits (in
both cash and services) are, however, a significant part of household incomes.
8.        The labor force has also been stagnant over the past decade,
reflecting the fact that the population of working age has changed little in
size during this period, and there is virtually no unemployment. There is an
overall scarcity of labor in the economy, but there are also certain pockets
of potential labor supply, both in agriculture and in industry, where there is
a degree of overmanning and some employment in obsolete industries. This has
been rationalised in recent years by shifting labor out of industry.   In the
period 1975 to 1981 total manufacturing employment in industry declined by
about 180,000 (about 10% of the 1981 total of 1.7 million). In agriculture,
total employment declined by about 200,000 during the first half of the decade
(from 1.3 million in 1970 to 1.1 million in 1975) but in the period since
1975, agricultural employment has remained virtually unchanged. Partly this
is explained by the growth of employment in rural-based farm-related
manufacturing activities and services, which are recorded statistically as
agricultural employment. Employment in the services sector (trade, transport
and other services) has absorbed the labor released from industry and
agriculture, and has risen by over 350,000 since 1970 to a total of close to
2.0 million in 1981.



- 4 -
9.       Sectoral productivity differentials are narrower in Hungary than in
many developing countries. In 1981 the productivity in industry was 40%
greater than in both agriculture and services (about Fts. 150,000 per worker
employed in industry, compared to about Fts. 107,000 per worker in both
agriculture and services--in 1976 Fts.). However, these differentials have
widened significantly since 1975 as labor has shifted out of industry and into
the service sectors. In 1975 industrial productivity was only about 19%
greater than in agriculture.
Government Policies
10.      Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities, and the relatively equal distribution of income which its
socialist policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do
not rank as the first priorities of policy. While the raising of general
living standards is a major objective, the focus of policy in order to achieve
it is on the structural issues of investment, growth, efficiency and, more
recently, on the external balance. Present government policy stems from the
watershed period of events occurring between 1978-82. As early as 1978, it
was recognized that the pursuit of high investment and rapid growth based on
foreign borrowing to cover the ensuing trade deficits could not be continued;
this realization was accentuated by the impact of the second oil shock in
1979. Accepting that short-term growth would need to be subordinated for a
period to the need for fundamental adjustments in the economy, the authorities
embarked on a dual management strategy - to stabilize the economy through
severe investment and expenditure restraints on the one hand, and, on the
other, to pursue with a renewed commitment the reform of the economic system,
seen as the means to bring about the needed structural adjustments in
production. In 1980, a new package of reforms emphasizing pricing of domestic
products on the basis of world market prices was introduced. This new
affirmation of policy, however, has been confronted by the advent of a severe
liquidity crisis early in 1982 (described in more detail below) which has made
the immediate pursuit of structural adjustment goals, together with other
social objectives such as maintaining and improving the living standard of the
population, more difficult. In this situation, therefore, it is necessary to
distinguish between the short term and the longer run objectives of the
government.
11.      In the short term the country's policy options are heavily
circumscribed by the financial constraints imposed by the present liquidity
crisis. During 1982 the country faced both a financial crisis, and a loss of
confidence within the banking community, already made nervous by debt problems
in other countries. In this situation the Government's paramount goal--now
supported by an IMF Standby Agreement--is to restore its financial balances
and reconstitute its depleted reserves through a stabilization program, even
more stringent than that in force before 1982, and thereby also to restore
external confidence so that foreign borrowing can be resumed.
12.      The Government also recognizes the need to make longer run structural
adjustments, but can do so at present only inasmuch as present financial
constraints permit. These structural objectives include institutional changes



as well as changes in the structure of economic activity to reflect changed
conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of principal importance here is
the need to become more competitive in convertible currency markets for
manufactures, to increase the exportable surplus in agricultural products, and
to reduce imports of energy and raw materials. While it is true that in the
past energy imports have been available at favorable prices from CMEA
countries (principally the Soviet Union), there are limits on the volume of
these imports (around the levels reached in 1981), and purchases above these
amounts are at higher prices and paid for in convertible currencies. The
growth of energy imports, therefore, will become an increasing hard currency
drain as they rise above present levels. In essence, therefore, the country's
structural adjustment goals center around the need to raise the net
convertible currency yield from production and trade. To do this will require
greater efficiency in production, improved product quality and, in turn an
upgrading of the country's productive technologies, much of which are outdated
and based on energy- and input-intensive technologies developed in the CMEA
countries.
13.      While the economic reforms are the centrepiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set in place certain measures to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
two priority lines of credit in the National Bank--for energy-saving and
export-oriented investments--and the adoption of certain 'centralized
development programs' in priority industries through which the State
coordinates and supports enterprise investments. Also, in the general credit
policy of the National Bank in force since the stabilization program,
investments are not favored unless they contribute to structural adjustment
goals. At present only smaller, quick-yielding projects in high value added
activities are being approved.
Recent Economic Developments
14.      Hungary's liquidity crisis is owed both to certain failings in past
country policy as well as to developments in the international situation which
were beyond its control. By 1981 past policies had led to an accumulated
foreign debt that exceeded $10 billion. The convertible medium- and long-term
debt service was pre-empting about a quarter of all convertible export
revenues. In this situation the turn of events in Poland and mounting debt
problems in many developing countries (including Romania), led, early in 1982,
to a sudden loss of confidence in Eastern Europe in the world financial
markets.  Simultaneously several major depositors withdrew foreign currency
balances held in the National Bank of Hungary and western banks curtailed all
new lending to the country. To meet its payments obligations, for both short
term and other debt outstanding, the country had to use its reserves, which
accordingly declined precipitously. In the three months from December 1981 to
March 1982, reserves in convertible currencies fell from $1.69 billion to
$0.47 billion, equal to barely one month's convertible imports.
15.      It was evident, therefore, that a renewed stabilization effort was
needed. Through severe credit restrictions, and other measures, the
Government has successively reduced the investment share--and continues to do



- 6 -
so under the IMF Standby program--to about 30% in 1982.  There is expected to
be a further reduction in 1983. To do this the authorities have put in place
a series of measures to restrict the availability of all enterprise own funds
for investments. This includes a 25% tax on any investment started after
June 1, 1982 which does not generate convertible exports or xraterial savings;
contribution rates to compulsory enterprise reserve funds were increased by
5%; interest paid on reserve fund deposits was reduced and a tax of 4%-6% was
placed on enterprise development funds; and taxes on the wage bill were
increased. In addition investment funded through the State budget were
reduced by suspending all new State investments.
16.      Correspondingly, recent growth has been sharply lower than for the
past several years. Growth in the GDP for the period 1979-81 was only 1.8%
per annum compared to an average of 4% to 8% per annum in the period 1974-78,
both in real terms, and it was no longer possible to maintain the growth of
consumption to which the population had become accustomed. In contrast to the
4% real growth over the past decade, consumption grew by only 2% in the period
1979-81, and is likely to be stagnant or declining in 1982-83 when average GDP
growth is expected to be only 1.4%.
Foreign Trade and Payments
17.      Through much of the last decade Hungary's foreign trade has shown
significant trade deficits in both convertible and non-convertible currency
accounts, and the country borrowed abroad to finance its high investment and
growth rates. Since 1980, however, and with greater urgency since the
financial crisis of 1982, Hungary has managed to achieve significant surpluses
in the convertible trade account.  Thus, the peak convertible deficit of $784
million in 1978 was transformed into a surplus of $444 million by 1981, and an
estimated surplus of $770 million by the end of 1982. Ihese results were
achieved partly through reductions in import intensity, and partly through
expansion of export revenues. From 1978 to 1981 convertible currency
merchandise exports grew by 54% in nominal terms, while GDP grew only 23% and
imports by 12%. A significant share of these exports (almost one quarter in
1981) was accounted for by earnings from exports to Socialist countries, paid
for in convertible currencies--but success in these markets in the short run
may not be a sound indicator of Hungary's longer run competitiveness in
convertible currency markets at large.
External Debt
18.      Total debt outstanding in June 1982 was $8.95 billion, of which debt
in convertible currencies was $7.38 billion.  Ihis represents a reduction in
the level of debt outstanding at end-1981 (when the total had been $10.03
billion), following the repayment--largely from reserves--of $1.3 billion in
convertible currency debt which fell due in early 1982 and which the banks
were not prepared to renew. Of the total convertible debt outstanding in June
1982, some 25% ($1.9 billion) was in short-term paper. Given the slight
improvement in Hungary's standing with the banks since mid-1982, it is
expected that some renewals of existing short-term liabilities will now be
accommodated, although the Government's policy is to further reduce the share



-7-
of short-term debt in the total. In 1982 the debt service ratio for all
medium- and long-term debt combined and for all export earnings was about 16
percent. In terms of convertible currency debt service measured against
convertible export earnings, the ratio was about 25%.
Medium Term Outlook
19.      The growth prospects during the next 2-3 years are likely to remain
highly constrained by the need for continued domestic stabilization. The
retrenchment of investment, curtailment of imported inputs, and the reduction
of domestic demand are likely to have a particularly severe effect on
industrial growth, reinforcing the impact of sluggish demand conditions in
world markets.  If the world market recovers, Hungarian industry and exports
will benefit. However, the country's debt obligations will remain a severe
drain on foreign currency earnings for the next 2-3 years, and external credit
over this period may continue to be relatively restricted. Even though
agriculture may be less affected by the stabilization program, and significant
growth may continue in this sector, it seems unlikely that the overall average
GDP growth rate will exceed 2% per annum for the period up to 1986. In the
years after that, assuming the stabilization program has successfully restored
the external balance, and assuming the availability of substantial external
credit, growth may be expected to follow or even run ahead of the world market
recovery. By this time the impact of the country's restructuring programs in
industry and agriculture may be evident in significant increases in exportable
products, while the import savings program in energy would add yet further to
foreign currency resources. In the second half of this decade, therefore, it
may be reasonable to expect GDP growth rates at least in the range of 3% to 4%
per annum.
External Capital Requirements
20.      Hungary's immediate financial goals are to reconstitute its reserves,
to reduce somewhat its outstanding debt and lengthen its term structure, and
to rebuild external confidence in the economy. Given the high level of
medium- and long-term debt service in convertible currency ($1.4 billion in
1982) and the depleted level of reserves ($745 million in September 1982,
equal to only 45 days' imports), these goals can only be achieved through
continued borrowing from abroad, even allowing for the low rates of GDP growth
and the trade surpluses expected under the stabilization program in the next
few years. For 1983, assuming that convertible exports grow at no less than
4% in real terms (with a projected increase in export prices of 6%) and
imports decline by 4% in real terms (with a price increase of 8%), gross
borrowing requirements in convertible currencies are estimated to be around
$1.0 billion. This would allow for a marginal accumulation of reserves, to
about $1.1 billion. In the period 1984-86 the debt service burden on medium-
and long-term debt is expected to rise to around $2.0 billion (about 26% of
convertible exports) so that, even with continuing modest growth, an
anticipated increase in import growth to 5% p.a. (12% in current terms) and a
continued growth of exports at no less than 4% p.a. (11% in current terms),
gross borrowing requirements will increase to about $1.4 billion per year.
While Bank and Fund membership will provide some of these capital needs, and



- 8 -
while Hungary has recently successfully re-entered the market with a $200
million club loan, it remains to be seen whether and when the commercial banks
will be responsive to loan requests by Hungary at these levels.
21.      Although the non-convertible balance of payments has traditionally
been in deficit, debt service is small (3-4%), due to the concessionary
interest rates obtained on loans from the Socialist countries. Overcoming
current difficulties in the capital account balance will require gross medium-
and long-term loans of about $300 million per year until 1985. In subsequent
years borrowing is expected to decline below amortization levels, in line with
the Government's current policy of gradually reducing borrowing requirements
in non-convertible currency through reductions in the trade deficit. By the
mid-80s the total medium- and long-term debt in non-convertible currency is
projected to rise from the 1981 level of $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion, but
fall to about t1.1 billion by the end of the decade.
Creditworthiness
22.      Hungarian economic management is well organized, with effective
central institutions and clearly articulated policy objectives. Despite this,
there have been aspects of the management of the economy over the last decade
which could be questioned. In particular, the failure to persist with the
1968 reforms and the resort to foreign borrowings as a substitute for early
adjustments to the first oil shock, have made more painful the adjustments
that now have to be made, and have left the economy with serious wage/price
distortions and major producer and consumer subsidies, which detract from the
goal of applying market signals to enterprise decisions.
23.      The point to be recognized now is that the Government, since 1978/9,
has committed itself to serious pursuit of the reforms and is determined to
impose the adjustments that are needed, at a pace that political
considerations will permit. The Bank staff is in agreement with the broad
thrust of present economic policy. During the economic mission and subsequent
evaluation of Hungary's economic policies, there has been close collaboration
with the Fund, and we support the short-term stabilization measures being
adopted under the IMF standby agreement which include restraint of real income
and investment, reduction of subsidies, and a more active exchange rate policy
for balance of payments adjustment.l/ In view of the country's record, its
effective management system, and its general prospects for achieving an
improved external balance in the mid-80s and for re-establishing a moderate
rate of growth, Hungary is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
1/ The 13-month IMF standby agreement was signed in December 1982, and is for
SDR475 ($525 million) of which the first drawing, plus the total SDR72
($80 million) allocated from the compensatory financing facility, was made
in December 1982. Repurchases will begin in 1986.



- 9 -
PART II; BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARYI/
24.      The proposed loan would be one of the first two loans to Hungary with
a $130.4 million commitment to support the grain storage and mechanization
investments under the current Five Year National Development Plan. The other
loan being simultaneously processed is a $109 million loan to support the
country's industrial energy diversification and conservation program.
25.      Following the recent completion of the Bank's Economic Report, the
program of possible lending activity is still being formulated for the next
few years. Given the country's relatively high per capita income, the Bank's
lending to Hungary will be limited in time and in amount.  The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors; agriculture, industry, energy and related
transport. Bank assistance would generally aim at strengthening the thrust of
the adjustment process, which is on export generation; import substitution,
particularly in the energy sector, through increased domestic production and
conservation; plant upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production
costs through more efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity
and product quality; and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration
of enterprise activities and encourage smaller, more efficient industries to
produce components. Possible future projects being discussed would take into
consideration these priority objectives.
26.      The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect they have
requested that we help them secure cofinancing for the proposed project and
also the industrial energy diversification and conservation project, utilizing
the new 'B' loan type instruments. Through these instruments the Bank intends
to introduce Hungary to commercial banks which may not have previously been
engaged in Hungarian offerings, and thus obtain external funds additional to
those from Hungary's traditional sources.
27.      The Bank also expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade, and a review of the
investment plan. These would provide valuable policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced to increase the impact of market forces and to
increase enterprise autonomy. Training through EDI is also being undertaken
and two well-received procurement seminars have been held in Budapest.
28.      Hungary is not yet a member of IFC but preliminary discussions have
been held.
1/ This Part is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for an industrial energy diversification and conservation project
which is being submitted to the Executive Directors simultaneously with
this proposed project.



- 10 -
29.      The projects in the pipeline would represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they would provide a substantial net
addition to the present flow of convertible currency available on longer
repayment terms. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to
constitute about 0.5 percent of Hungary's total projected convertible debt in
FY84; the Bank's share in Hungary's debt service payment in FY84 would be less
than 0.2 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN HUNGARY
30.      Agriculture is a sector of principal importance to the Hungarian
economy. Historically and at present the sector has largely fulfilled the
country's need for food; it has generated significant surpluses for export
thus permitting the importation of inputs needed for industrial growth; it has
generated taxable surpluses which provide savings for national investment;
and, in the past, it has been a source of labor release for growth in other
sectors of the economy. At present, as in the past, the sector's role in
generating convertible currency earnings has been of particular importance,
since agriculture has a high net foreign exchange yield, evidenced by the fact
that in recent years the sector accounted for about 30 percent of convertible
exports, but less than 13 percent of convertible currency imports.  The
majority of agricultural exports to Socialist countries are paid in
convertible currencies.In 1981 agriculture accounted for 16.5 percent of
national income, about 20 percent of total employment and some 15 percent of
total investment. As Hungary has industrialized over the past two decades, so
has the share of agriculture in GDP declined. Nevertheless, Hungarian
agriculture has earned deserved eminence in relation to other East European
countries as to know-how and yield levels. There is, however, significant
scope for improvements in its productive performance and economic efficiency
in certain areas. Important potentials remain under-exploited, and the
technological base of the sector is in need of upgrading. For all these
reasons, and following also from the fact that the sector is responsive to
well designed incentives, agriculture in Hungary can contribute in critically
important ways to the structural adjustment needs which face the country in
the next several years.
31.      Hungarian agriculture is based on relatively good soils, a moderate
continental climate generally suitable for agricultural production and average
precipitation of 500-600 mm, with, however, a wide range of 200 mm to 1,000 mm
which can bring 2 to 3 successive years of drought or excessive early summer
rains disruptive to crop production. Out of a national total of 9.3 million
ha, 6.6 million ha are used for various types of agricultural production. Of
the total agricultural land area, arable land accounts for 72 percent, pasture
14 percent, meadowland 5 percent, vineyards and orchards 5 percent, and
gardens 4 percent. Five main types of soils are present in Hungary, of which
brown forest soils, with 41 percent of the land area, are most common.
Chernozems, the most fertile soils, account for 25 percent of the land. In
general, soils tend to be acidic; 40 percent have a pH of below 6.



- 11 -
Sector Organization
32.      Following the institution of centralized administered planning which
was introduced in the period after World War II, Hungarian agriculture was
collectivized and structured to conform to the centrally planned system. It
was in agriculture, however, that the reforms of that system, and the
departure from physical targetting in favor of economic, market-based
production/investment decisions, was first introduced. Agriculture has
therefore led the economy in the reform process, a fact which is taken to
explain, at least to some extent, its buoyant performance in the past two
decades. The sector is organized around State farms (of which there were 131
in 1981) and cooperatives (1320 in 1981). In addition, there is a "second
economy" in agriculture in the form of auxiliary and private farms on
household plots and from State farms and cooperative members, which
contributes a significant share of total sector output in certain products.
Under the regime set in place by the reforms since 1968 the sector as a
whole--including State farms and cooperatives--is an incentives-driven
production system with profit seeking and financially autonomous productive
units, making decentralized decisions to invest and produce. There remains a
significant degree of State intervention in the sector, mainly in the form of
price and tax/subsidy intervention along lines common in market oriented
economies. Although input and output prices have traditionally been
established on a cost plus basis, in recent years annual adjustments to these
have been on the basis of movements in international prices of these products,
and subsidy levels have continued to decline. The long run policy of the
Government is alignment of domestic and border prices. Services and credit
are delivered to the sector at market-based terms through State organizations,
and output is marketed mainly through State agencies at pre-determined prices
which are adjusted to reflect movements in border prices. Although the State
retains a monopoly marketing right on staples such as milk, meat and bread,
under recent policy changes individuals frequently market other products such
as fruits and vegetables in permanent prime urban areas leased, under a
competitive process, from the State. This development is expected to expand.
Planning in agriculture has been retained in the system, but as an instrument
of indicative forecasting only; the pursuit of centrally pre-set physical
targets has been long abandoned.
33.      At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MEM).
It initiates virtually all the sectoral planning, price determination,
organization and regulation, and as appropriate, liaises with other State
organs. It employs about 600 people and includes Food Industry and Forestry.
The other State organs directly regulating agriculture are: the National
Planning Office responsible for annual, medium-term (5 year) and long-term
(15-20 year) development plans and in part for price determination; the
National Board for Prices and Materials similar to the National Planning
Office but more limited in scope with emphasis on prices. Since the time of
the restructuring of the economy towards decentralization, the role of the
line ministries, such as MEM, has shifted from lead to support. Thus MEM no
longer instructs, but merely advises and its interventionist role in all but
the most extreme cases is effectively nil.  Instead, the pricing system has
been substituted as the means of directing agriculture.



- 12 -
Composition of Production
34.      Crop production accounts for slightly over half of total agricultural
output, but is in a slow decline in comparison to livestock production. In
1981, crop production accounted for 51 percent of total agricultural output
and animal production, 49 percent. In the early sixties the respective shares
were 60 percent and 40 percent. Cereals contribute the major share of crop
production with maize dominating. In 1981, 4.6 million tons of wheat was
produced on 1 million ha and 7.0 million tons of maize on 1.2 million ha.
Other crops in the order of quantitative importance include potatoes, barley,
sunflower, oats and rye. In 1981, Hungary produced 0.3 million tons of beef,
1.2 million tons of pork and 0.5 million tons of poultry meat. In terms of
producer groups the State farms and cooperatives, comprising the social
sector, account for 65 percent of the total production. Household plots in
cooperatives account for 16 percent, and auxiliary (commercially rented) and
private farms, 15 percent. Household plots and auxiliary and private farms
are mainly important for livestock production, contributing 22 percent and 18
percent respectively of the total livestock production in 1981.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
35.      Considerable progress has been made during the past decades in
developing agriculture in Hungary to the extent that its yields are coimparable
in some cases with those in Western Europe and North America. There is,
however, a wide disparity between the highest and lowest yields, and
significant scope exists for yield improvements in many areas in the country.
Moreover, there is a significant divergence in the sector's performance when
measuring gross as against net production (or value added). This is evident,
for example, in the record of production growth between 1970 and 1981 when
gross output grew by 3 percent per annum while net output grew by only about 1
percent per annum, resulting in a decline in the share of value added in gross
output from 47 percent to 37 percent over the period. This suggests the need
to improve further the incentive system as a means of economizing and
increasing the efficiency of input usage. Between 1970 and 1981, the area of
arable land has remained about the same, but a remarkable increase in crop
yields has been achieved. During the same period, livestock production and
yields also increased.
Sector Issues and Strategies
36.      Although Hungarian agriculture is endowed with a relatively good
physical resource base its further growth has been constrained recently by
several factors. In addition to erratic rainfall (para. 31), these factors
include the shortage of storage capacity especially for grains, the poor
quality and extent of on-farm mechanization, lack of formal extension
services, poor feed quality and efficiency, underutilized pastures, and the
distorted pricing system. The proposed project has been designed mainly to
address two immediate constraints among those mentioned above, i.e. grain
storage capacity and on-farm mechanization.



- 13 -
37.      There are two main sources of extension services in Hungary.
Commercial production systems provide agricultural consultation and management
for their members, but their fees are sometimes too costly for poorer
enterprises and private farmers. MEM provides centralized services through
its applied research institutes, but the ability of all farms to utilize these
is uneven. To address this constraint, at least in the grain subsector, an
overseas training program is included under the proposed project to provide
future extension services in grain handling.
38.      A fundamental policy of the Government is to ensure adequate supplies
to meet the expanding demand for foodstuffs by domestic consumers at low
prices in order to minimize increases in living costs, also in part to
maintain stable wages and prices which in turn affect non-agricultural
exports. In addition surplus earnings are extracted from agriculture to
finance other Government expenditures which creates some disincentive in
agriculture. An agricultural pricing study would be carried out under the
project to provide a basis to formulate improvements to the current pricing
system. The study would aim to assess (i) the efficiency of the current
pricing and subsidy system in terms of promoting the potential maximum net
revenue earning capacity of the sector and (ii) the effect of the current
pricing policy on net foreign trade earnings. It is expected that this will
reinforce the current movement towards flexible price determination with
strong reference to international price levels and movements in the cause of
improving efficiency.
The National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
39.      The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) combines the function of the
Central Bank with that of a commercial bank. As such, it is the major source
of agricultural credit in Hungary, and financial transactions among
agricultural enterprises and between the Government and agricultural
enterprises are entirely conducted through NBH. NBH administers State farms'
and cooperatives' deposits; enterprises' financial assets consist principally
of demand deposits with NBH. It is involved in all phases of project
appraisal, execution and supervision, and it has a large technical, financial
and economic staff located in Budapest, 19 regional offices and 71 branches
throughout the country. It employs about 6,400 persons, about 25 percent of
whom are directly or indirectly engaged in agricultural lending. It also has
thorough and strict review and approval procedures for all investment
projects. Under such procedures project eligibility is based on cash flow
models demonstrating technical efficiency and foreign exchange earning
potential. Investment loans are approved by branch managers (Ft. 30 million),
department heads (Ft. 80 million), Vice Presidents or the Board of Directors
depending on the size of the loan. Short-term loans are approved by branch
offices. The food and agriculture department of NBH is responsible for
agricultural transactions including those under the proposed project, whereas
the credit policy department is responsible for credit policy matters
including agricultural credit policies to be applied to the sub-loans under
the project. NBH's financial statements indicate that the institution is in a
very sound financial position. Since NBH is the Government's main channel for
investment financing in agriculture, the Guarantee Agreement includes a



- 14 -
provision that the Government shall provide out of its existing allocations
for agricultural development amounts required for the carrying out of the
sub-projects (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
40.      The proposed project is the first to be financed by the Bank in the
agricultural sector in Hungary. The Bank's lending strategy is based on the
findings of the economic mission in May/June 1982 and subsequent sector
related missions which prepared this proposed project. Currently the main
objectives of Bank lending are to assist the Government in its pursuit of
structural adjustments and technology improvements in the economy, a principal
aim of which is to increase convertible foreign exchange earnings or savings.
In agriculture there is scope for making a significant contribution for these
objectives, both through technology, upgrading and efficiency improvements.
In the grain sector in particular such improvements can lead to very quick
yielding results, with an almost immediate positive impact on the convertible
trade balance.
41.      During the economic mission and through the preparation period of
this project, detailed discussions were carried out between the Bank and the
Hungarian authorities concerned regarding the economic management of the
sector. While the Hungarian economy is in transition between central planning
and a more market-based system and while reforms in agriculture are often more
advanced than in industry, the Bank can play an important role in introducing
various macro- and micro-economic policy and project analysis tools as
possible alternatives for the longer-run goals of developing more
sophisticated economic management systems.
The Grain Subsector
42.      Of the country's 6.6 million ha agricultural area, 69% or 4.7 million
ha are used for grain production. Wheat and maize total 90% of this
production; other grains include barley, rye and oats. Although the climate
is suitable for small grain production, it presents some problems with maize
production. Situated between the 450 and 480 latitudes, Hungary is on the
margin of the northern hemisphere's maize production zone. In the U.S.
virtually all maize grain production ceases north of 440 latitude. To
obtain viable maize yields of 7-10 tons/ha, long season varieties are sown,
resulting in over 30% moisture content at harvest (October-November), which
must be dried to at least 16-18% moisture before it can be safely stored.
This involves use of imported heating oil and occasionally reduced feed value
due to heat damage from the drying process. Under the project the amount of
grain drying required would be reduced by the introduction of wet maize grain
storage silos.
43.      Out of a total of 1,451 social sector farms, 1,059 engage in grain
production.  Cooperatives produce between 70-75% of total annual production,
followed by State farms which produce 15-20% of the total. Private and
household plots in cooperatives produce about 10% of the annual grain
production, mainly maize. This is used for either their own consumption and
animal feed or sales to the surrounding social sector farms.



- 15 -
44.      Under the Ministry of Agriculture, the Grain Trust (GT), a State
enterprise, is responsible for procurement, storage and marketing of grains
entering the market to meet domestic demand including those for maintaining
national reserve stock and export purposes. The GT is also the sole importer
of protein feed material through AGRIMPEX, the state-owned monopoly grain
trading enterprise and a commission agent, which is responsible for finalizing
and developing export/import contracts and providing market information and
analysis.
45.      Hungary's recent grain subsector performance is summarized below.
Hungary-Grain Production and Yields
Increase
1970         1980         1981      1970-1981
------------million tons--------------         %
Grain Production                   7.5         13.7         12.8         71
of which:
Wheat                         2.7           6.1          4.6         70
Maize                         4.0           6.5          7.0         75
Average Yields             --------------tons/ha--------------          %
Wheat                         2.1           4.8          4.6        119
Maize                         3.4           5.3          5.8         71
Of the total wheat and maize production, about 70% and 30% respectively enter
into market channels. The remainder is stored on-farm for use as animal feed
by the producers. Hungary's average yields are compared with other countries
as shown below.
Hungary - Comparative Grain Yields (1978-80 Average)
Wheat        Maize         Barley
------------ tons/ha----
Hungary                               4.3           5.2          3.3
German Democratic Republic            4.7           2.7          3.8
Germany, Federal Republic of          5.0           5.5          4.4



- 16 -
Although Hungary's grain yields rank well to the fore compared with Eastern
and Western European countries, the wheat and maize yields range widely, from
1.5 to 7 tons/ha and 2 to 10 tons/ha, respectively, leaving much room for
improvement of average yields.
46.      Agriculture accounts for 25% of all exports.  Within this, grain
exports are the third largest item following livestock and livestock products
and fruits and vegetables. With a relatively favorable market outlook,
expanding output of this convertible currency earning product is important.
However, two serious input problems militate against this - lack of suitable
grain storage and inadequate farm mechanization. Between 1975 and 1981,
Hungary's grain exports averaged about one million tons per year, of which
wheat amounted to about 90%, mostly to USSR and other Socialist countries.
Feed grain imports, which mainly consist of low grade wheat and maize,
increased up to the middle of the decade and then declined heavily. In 1981
they totalled 60 thousand tons.
47.      The current price and subsidy system, particularly for wheat and
maize, appears largely responsible for a less than optimal on-farm mix of
production activities. The recent economic reforms aim to correct this
situation through more appropriate border prices being introduced to the
domestic pricing system and a gradual decrease of subsidies. The wide range
of grain production yields should then be narrowed as a result of a change in
the production pattern to reflect their comparative advantage, causing a
reduction in grain output in marginal areas. The pricing study included under
the project will assist in developing a more rational price system, through
providing greater insights into the effect of the present system on levels of
efficiency and output in Hungarian agriculture.
48.      In 1981, grain and oilseeds production totalled 14.5 million tons
whereas the installed storage capacity totalled about 9 million tons.
Oilseeds share the same storage facilities as grains. The 1981-85 Five-Year
Plan estimates the annual grain and oilseeds production at 16.9 million tons.
It also plans storage capacity investments of 1.23-1.28 million tons by 1985.
The advent of the proposed project and with it access to lower unit cost
imported metal silos will permit the level of investment to increase to 1.45
million tons, of which 971 thousand will be incremental and the remainder
replacement of abandoned existing stores. As a result the storage capacity
deficit is expected to be reduced from 6 million tons in 1981 to 2.4 million
tons in 1985. Planned investments under the project in storage modernization
and handling equipment are expected to increase actual utilization of grain
storage.



- 17 -
49.      Hungary currently suffers from a comparative shortage of tractors and
combine harvesters. The volume of tractors and combine harvesters in Hungary
and other Eastern and Western European countries and the USSR is shown below.
Tractors and Harvesters in Use
(per '000 ha of arable and permanent crops)
Tractors                Harvesters
1969-71   1975    1979   1969-71  1975    1979
Hungary                              12      11       10       2        3      3
France                               66      72       75       7        8      8
German Democratic Republic           30      28       28       4        2      3
US                                   23      21       23       4        3      3
USSR                                  9      10       11       3        3      3
Hungarian agriculture has less tractor capacity than any of the comparator
countries, including even USSR. Although the quality of tractors has improved
somewhat following imports of tractors and technologies from Western
countries, foreign exchange constraints still require that most imported
tractors and equipment come from the CMEA countries. The shortage and low
quality of tractors and implements present major problems in attaining higher
yields and production through improved crop technologies such as earlier and
better tillage, improved soil moisture conservation, improved and timely
seeding, and application of chemicals and fertilizers.
50.      The situation regarding grain harvesters does not appear to be as
acute as for tractors until these items are considered;  (i) Hungary is a
small and homogenous country so that all of the harvest of a particular crop
takes place at the same time; (ii) all combine harvesters are imported, and
spare parts are very difficult to get; from the West because of foreign
exchange requirements and from the CMEA countries because of unreliable
supplies; and (iii) production has nearly doubled in the last ten years while
the number of combines has remained relatively stable. The CMEA combine
harvesters are of low capacity and cannot handle a 4-6 ton/ha wheat crop or a
6-8 ton/ha maize crop in a reasonable time. This is a major problem as maize
and sugar beet crops must be harvested rapidly to permit tillage and saving of
wheat prior to winter. Wheat must also be harvested rapidly to avoid
weather-related losses from severe mid-summer rains.  Although virtually 100%
of all cropping operations are mechanized it is not the level of mechanization
of a particular operation that is of importance, but the time taken to
complete the operation which depends upon the available volume of equipment.
51.      The Government is acutely aware of the problem in this area, and
planned for improved mechanization in the current Five-Year National
Development Plan. Although the share of total agricultural investment for
machinery, 66 percent, is expected to remain the same during the plan period,
total investment in agriculture is planned to be 4-5 percent greater than in
the previous Five-Year National Development Plan, making the absolute amount
available for mechanization to be somewhat higher than in the previous Plan.



- 18 
However, the mechanization development program has had to be delayed as a
result of the shortage of foreign exchange needed to buy western equipment.
It is in this essentially important area that the proposed project would
provide assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.      The proiect, which would be a portion of the current Five-Year
(1981-1985) National Development Plan, was originally discussed with the
Bank's first economic mission in May and June 1982 for possible Bank
financing.  A preparation mission visited Hungary in October 1982 to discuss
the details of the preparatory work leading to the project appraisal. The
project was appraised in November and December 1982, and negotiations were
held in Washington in May 1983. The Hungarian delegation was headed by Mr.
Gabor Magyar, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food Industry and included
representatives from MEM, NBH and National Planning Office. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Grain Storage and Mechanization Project" No. 4373-HU
dated May 16, 1983 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.  The main features of the project are mentioned in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III.
Poect Description
53.      The project is designed to increase grain production and productivity
and decrease harvest losses through increased storage capacity and modernized
and more efficient storage management and improved off-farm mechanization. As
a result, the project would aim to expand the availability of grains for
exports, in particular wheat and maize in which Hungary has comparative
production and market accessibility advantages. Thus, the project would
contribute to easing a most acute problem which Hungary is currently facing,
i.e. a critical shortage of convertible currencies, Because of the utmost
importance attached to resolving the balance of payments issue, the project is
given a high priority in the Government's current Five-Year National
Development Plan.
54.      Grain storage development would promote the project objective by
expanding and rationalizing the existing grain storage capacity, both on- and
off-farm, with the aim of reducing the current and future grain storage
deficit in the least cost fashion and thereby reducing current and potential
post-harvest losses.  This component would also include a small technical
assistance effort for grain handling and financial management, to improve
currently inadequate financial management systems of Grain Trust (GT), the
Industrial Corn Production System (IKR) and the Maize and Industrial Crops
System (KITE). Greater mechanization capacity of improved quality will permit
more timely harvesting which will reduce weather related damage and losses,
reduce physical loss of grain due to deficient equipment. Improved machinery
will permit accelerated clearing of the land for more timely seed bed
preparation and seeding which will lead to improved yields and decreased costs.



- 19 -
55.      The project would consist principally of investments in grain storage
and mechanization for grain production in the remaining 3-year period
(1983-85) of the current Five-Year National Development Plan. Minor
expenditures for technical assistance in grain handling, mechanization study
tours, development of a management information system for major sub-borrowers,
an agricultural price policy study and future project preparation would also
be financed out of the project.  Investment in on-farm storage and
mechanization would be undertaken by about 330 sub-borrowers all in the social
sector, including State and cooperative farms and IKR. Over half of the
subborrowers have now been identified. Investment in off-farm storage would
be carried out by GT, the State grain marketing agency.  Specifically the
investments will comprise: for on-farm grain storage, new and improved flat
grain stores, portable pneumatic grain handling units, glass-lined steel tower
silos, concrete bunker silos, and feed grinding and mixing units; for
off-farm grain storage, metal silos with cleaning equipment, temperature
sensors and generating equipment to modernize existing metal silos, automatic
temperature sensors, aeration units and continuous level indicators to
modernize existing concrete silos, and portable pneumatic grain handling
units: for mechanization, heavy duty and multipurpose tractors, grain and
forage harvesters, planting, fertilizing and spraying equipment and tillage
equipment: for technical assistance, grain handling training and mechanization
study tour amounting to about 20 man-months in total, and establishing a
management information system in GT, IKR, and KITE and project preparation
capabilities in NBH amounting to about 2.5 man-years of consultancy. The
technical assistance component would also include an agricultural pricing
study to be carried out by the Hungarian Agricultural Economic Institute as
part of its on-going work program. In order to facilitate optimum use of
investments under the project, the Government would ensure that all necessary
fertilizers and plant protection materials would be procured and made
available for purchases through NBH loans (Section 4.03, Guarantee Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
56.      The estimated total cost of the project is US$313.6 million,
including $18.0 million duties and taxes and $0.4 million of the capitalized
front-end fee, with an estimated foreign exchange component of $163.9
million. Local and foreign exchange cost estimates are based on construction
and manufacturers' prices prevailing in January 1983 including transportation
and handling costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied only to
v            the civil works portion of the grain storage component.  Price contingencies
applied to foreign currency costs for the project implementation period of
1984 and 1985 are respectively 7.5 percent and 7.0 percent, and to local costs
8.0 and 7.5%, respectively. Consultant costs are estimated at $12,500 per
man-month in foreign and local costs including salary and benefits, travel
cost and other reimbursible costs, which are considered reasonable.
57.      The proposed Bank loan of $130.4 million including $0.4 million to
cover the capitalized front-end fee, would finance 42 percent of the total
estimated costs and 80 percent of the estimated foreign costs of the project.
The balance of the project cost would be financed by sub-borrowers' equity
contributions ($94.0 million) and the Government's contributions ($89.2



- 20 -
million). The proposed loan would be made to NBH, and would be for a term of
15 years, including 3 years' grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. NBH would bear the foreign exchange risk. The NBH in principle, has
agreed to seek cofinancing from commercial sources for this proposed project,
and expressed its interest in utilizing new "B" loan type instruments. The
amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on market conditions and amounts
being raised by Hungary in capital markets.  It is likely that for this
project cofinancing will be about US$100 million equivalent.
58.      Bank funds would finance mechanical and electrical installations for
storage facilities as well as the metal and steel silos and pneumatic handling
equipment (*55.0 million) or about 77 percent of the total cost of this
component; agricultural machinery ($74.5 million) or about 41 percent of the
cost; consulting and training ($0.5 million) or about 71 percent of the cost.
NBH would make available $0.24 million to MEM which would be for technical
assistance to MEM and NBH.
59.      NBH would on-lend Bank funds for a term of an average of 8 years,
with a minimum of 6 years and a maximum of 10 years, including one year of
grace for the implementation of the grain storage component under its general
agricultural development credit line and for a term of 6 years including one
year of grace for the implementation of the mechanization component under the
export promotion credit line. The interest rate payable by sub-borrowers to
NBH will be 14 percent. Other funds would be on-lent by NBH at the
appropriate interest rate prevailing at the time of the subloan, in accordance
with the credit guidelines established by NBH. Under such guidelines, NBH's
own funds would be extended at 14 percent with the 45 percent rebate
considered under the export credit line for the mechanization component and 14
percent for the grain storage component. The rebate for the mechanization
component would be paid if one year after the start of operations,
sub-borrowers can demonstrate that originally set export promotion targets
have been realized. Projected inflation rates in Hungary in 1984 and 1985 are
8.0 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively. Thus, positive real interest rates
are expected to prevail under the project. All repayments by sub-borrowers
would be credited to a special account and used exclusively to finance capital
investments for agricultural development until the loan is repaid by NBH (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Execution and Operation
60.      NBH would be the main project implementation agency assisted by MEM;
it would be responsible for overall project supervision and monitoring.  The
project would be carried out by production systems including Grain Trust, IKR,
State farms and cooperatives under agricultural credit sub-projects
administered by NBH and its branch offices. MEM would carry out foreignt study
visits for its staff concerned with imported agricultural machinery under the
program acceptable to the Bank and training of specialists and workers.
Technical assistance for Grain Trust, IKR, KITE, State farms and cooperatives
would be carried out under the sub-project scheme administered by NBH. NBH
has established a separate master project account at its headquarters where
all machinery, equipment and services purchased under the project would be



- 21 -
recorded by quality, quantity and values. In each NBH branch office and/or
agency, a similar project account has been established. NBH maintains
detailed records of sub-borrowers' financial and production results relative
to sub-project appraisal expectations and would submit to the Bank quarterly
reports (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.05(a)). Technical aspects of project
management would be the responsibility of MEM. All sub-project proposals
would have to be cleared by NBH branch office and/or agency according to NBH
credit guidelines which were examined in detail and found generally
satisfactory by the Bank. However, since the guidelines do not require
calculations of economic rate of return for each sub-project, NBH would be
required to test sub-projects' economic performance at appraisal and at
project completion by such methodology acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para 5). NBH would also be required to submit to the Bank six
sample sub-project appraisals, two from each project component, for review and
acceptance prior to the effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement
Section 6.01). AGROTEK, the State agency for import of agricultural equipment
and machinery, fertilizers and chemicals, would have responsibility on behalf
of NBH for making all necessary arrangements for international procurement.
Market Outlook
61.      The analysis of the domestic and external markets and of the demand
and supply pattern for grains indicates that no marketing problems need be
expected. With the country's population showing only 0.35 percent increase
per annum, the domestic demand for grains has shown little increase, and this
demand has been met by domestic production. In recent years, Hungary has
exported on average one million tons of grain per annum, mainly to CMEA
countries (para. 46). In view of the almost negligible share of Hungarian
grain in the external markets and the sizeable grain import needs in CMEA
countries, to which Hungary has an advantage of easy accessibility, disposal
of grains produced under the project is expected to be quite profitable.
About 80 percent of Hungary's grain exports, including all incremental
exports, are paid for in convertible currency at prices determined on the
basis of international prices at the time of shipment.
Audit
62.      NBH's accounts are audited by independent auditors.  This would be
continued under the project and would be expanded to include annual auditing
of the project account and other related documents submitted to the Bank in
support of applications for reimbursement, with a view to ascertaining whether
these documents and the related internal control procedures are sound. The
project account would show operational progress and the disbursement value of
project funds. NBH would forward to the Bank, within four months following
the closing of the fiscal year, audited project accounts, and the audited
balance sheets and income statements covering its total operations. Auditing
of subborrowers' accounts under the project will be done within 4 months of
the end of every fiscal year and a short form audit report prepared, both in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines. All such audits should be of
sufficient scope and timeliness so as to permit assessment of the use of
project funds. These audit reports, about 330, would be retained by NBH and
made available to Bank supervision missions.



- 22 -
Procurement
63.      All goods, equipment and services to be financed from the Bank loan
would be procured in accordance with Bank procurement and consultants
guidelines. Contracts for procurement of grain storage equipment and spare
parts to be financed by the Bank, for an amount equivalent to about US$55
million, would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  Such equipment
includes for on-farm use, metal tower silos for wet grain storage, pneumatic
grain handling and feed grain grinding and mixing units; and for off-farm use,
metal silos, high speed pneumatic grain handling equipment, moisture meters
and equipment for modernizing existing concrete silos. Civil works, which
would.be financed locally, would be carried out by force account and under
local contracts. The small size of the individual civil works structures, and
their wide dispersion in time and space, preclude bulking into contract sizes
of potential interest to outside contractors. Contracts for the procurement
of agricultural machinery to be financed by the Bank, for an amount equivalent
to about $75 million, would be awarded under international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for procurement. Such equipment would
comprise multipurpose tractors, heavy duty mold board plows, liquid manure
spreaders, combine harvesters and forage harvesters. Other locally produced
on-farm equipment of a quality meeting the project's needs, to be financed
locally, will be procured through local procedures.  In addition, imported
foreign manufactured fertilizers and plant protection materials for an amount
equivalent to $15 million would be procured after ICB in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
64.      Technical assistance in training of grain handling specialists abroad
would be procured by MEM, through procedures acceptable to the Bank, while
technical assistance in developing a management information system for GT,
IKR, and KITE would be procured by KBH, in consultation with GT, IKR, and KITE
following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Technical assistance in project
preparation would be procured by NBH through procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Di sbursement
65.      The Bank loan would be disbursed at the rate of 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for pneumatic grain handling equipment, wet grain
glass-lined silos, rapid moister meters, grain and forage harvesters,
multipurpose tractors and technical assistance and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for dry grain
metal silos and silo modernization equipment, heavy duty tractors, tillage,
planting, fertilizing and spraying equipment, and corn header and shredder
equipment and straw balers and bale headers. Disbursement under all
categories would be support-ed by full documentation. Disbursements are
expected to take place over a period of about three years.
Environment
66..     The project will not increase the area for grain production, and
there will be no displacement of other farmland. Adoption of more modern
practices will have a beneficial environmental impact through such measures as



- 23 -
improved on-farm grain stores, metal and steel silos with loading/unloading
and cleaning equipment and better equipment for tillage, planting,
fertilizing, spraying and harvesting. There will be no increase of pesticide
use and moderate increase of fertilizer use. The negative impact of increased
use of fertilizers is expected to be minimized through modern grain production
management practices in their selection and application. Hungary has an
established legal control of environmental pollution. Under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry, the Plant Protection and Agro-Chemistry Center
is responsible for detecting environmental pollution in the agricultural
sector, and it pays special attention to pesticide and fertilizer
applications, chemical storage practices and chemical residual controls.
Benefits and Risks
67.      The proposed project would contribute to increasing grain production,
decreasing grain harvest losses, and more importantly to increased production
efficiency through the improved capacity, handling and management of grain
storage, and more modernized agricultural mechanization. By providing
necessary foreign exchange and technical assistance, the project would help
Government's efforts which have been hampered by its recent foreign exchange
shortage, to improve its quality and quantity of agricultural equipment and
machinery, to improve tWe agricultural productivity and export earnings. At
full development in 1985/86, annual incremental production and loss reduction
are summarized below;
Summary of Major Annual Project Incremental Benefits
Wheat        Maize      Maize Silage    Total
(thousand tons)
Incremental Production         115           130          220           465
Loss Reduction                  65           550            -           615
Total                     180          680           220         1,080
The annual net incremental foreign exchange earnings from the project at full
development are estimated to be about $115 million.
68.      The overall economic rate of return of the project as a whole is
estimated at about 24 percent.  The economic rate of return from the off-farm
storage component, the cost of which is $53.6 million, is estimated to be 25
percent, while the rate of return from the on-farm storage component, the cost
of which is $77.3 million, is estimated to be 31 percent. The rate of return
from the mechanization component, the cost of which is $181.7 million, is
estimated to be 21 percent. Mechanization is the most sensitive of the three
components to changes in costs. Here total costs would have to increase by
over 20 percent, and investment and operating costs by 31 percent and 67
percent respectively independently of each other, before the ERR for the
component



- 24 -
would decline to 12 percent. Errors of this magnitude in cost estimation are
most unlikely in view of the standard off-the-shelf equipment involved. Total
benefits under the project could decline by up to 27 percent before the rate
of return would decline to 12 percent. Given the conservative estimates of
the benefits of grain storage and mechanization that have been used in the
analysis, such a decline in benefits is also considered most unlikely. All
components of the project are, however, very sensitive to delays in receipt of
the benefits.  In the case of a 2 year lag in the flow of benefits over the
entire project, the rate of return declines to 14 percent. For this to be
incurred a major investment in grain storage or mechanization would need to
remain completely unutilized for two years, which, again, in view of the
current high demand for such investment and the high caliber of farm
enterprise management is most unlikely.
69.      Since both the Government and the potential sub-borrowers are
committed to the project and since it is part of an on-going and demonstrably
successful investment program, the risks to overall project success appear
small. Exogenous risks are weather and international grain prices. The
project is designed to assist in reducing weather related losses with the
exception of wheat killing frosts; but these occur only once in every 10 years
on average. The project has been assessed at a relatively low point in the
international commodity price cycle, consequently downward price movement is
likely to be small. Endogenous risks relate to possible implementation delays
due to lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, the possibility
that unfamiliar types of tractors and machinery will be acquired as a result
of Bank ICB and the inadequacy of the financial management in GT, IKR and
KITE. Due to the commitment of the Government and sub-borrowers, the first
two of these risks should at worst create only temporary delays as adjustment
takes place. Concerning GT, poor financial management is unlikely to cause
implementation delays, but could give rise to slower sub-loan repayments, thus
affecting NBH. However, with appropriate expertise made available through the
project's technical assistance component this risk should be minimized.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Bank of
Hungary, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.  In addition to the
features of the Loan Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III, an additional condition of effectiveness would be:
-    NBH would submit six sample subproject appraisals to the Bank, two
from each project component, for review and acceptance (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 19, 1983
Washington, D.C.
t



ANNEX I
-26-                                                 Page 1 of 5 pages
_RUNcARY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SeEY
HINGARY                         XEFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGllTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                             - MOST RECENT EsTIKATPE)/
TOTAL           93.0If                                                   MOST RECENT        MIDDLE INCOHE        INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL    66.37T                        1960 /b     1970 Lb        RSTIMATE lb           EUROPE          MAKtEiT ECONOMIES
ON? PER CAPITA (US$)                                  ..       630.0           2100. OL            2323.9                10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(P.LOGRANIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)              1710.0       2799.0           4094.0/f            2107.4                 7277.7
POPULATION AND VlTAL STATISTICS                                    _
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)             9984.0      10337.0          10711.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)             40.1        47.9             53.4                47.9                   78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
rOPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                         11.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIOrrS)                                          11.7                  .
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION REACHED                                      *2030
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                                 107.3        111.2            115.2/f              83.3                  138.6
PER SQ. M. AGRICULTURAL LAND                139.8        150.5            161.677             155.4                  509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                     25.4        21.1             21.9                31.1                   22.7
15-64 YRS.                                   65.7         67.4             64.1               61.2                    65.7
65 YFS. AND A.BOVE                            8.9         11.5             13.4                 7.7                   11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL  .0.7                                                0.3              0.4                 1.6                    0.8
LRBAN                                         1.5          2.1              1.4                 3.5                    1.4
CRUDE EIRT1l RATE (PER TliOUSAND)              14.7        -14.7             13.9                23.6                   14.5
CRUDE DEATI RATE (PER THOUSAND)                10.2         11.6             13.6         *       9.2                    9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTIONI RATE                         1.0         1.0              0.9                 1.6                    0.9
fAirILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANWrUAL (IHOISANDS)                  ..       149.0/c          686.0/c
USERS (PERCENI OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..         6.01;           28.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1OO)                     63.0         91.0           136.0               116.0                  111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALCRIFS (PERCENT OF REQUIRL4P1.NrS)        122.3        127.6           134.4/f             125.1                  130.B
PROTEINS (CRAISS PER DAY)                    84.9         R6.2            94.37T              82.7                   97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PYISE                  33.9         39.0             46.1k               35.9                   61.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE                     1.6          1.1              0.6                 9.2                   O.S
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)               67.9         69.4             70.4                67.6                  73.0
INFANT MORTAI.ITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)          47.6         35.9             23.2               65.1                    11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT
OF POPU.ATION)
TOTAL                                        22.7/d       36.1/d           65.0/d
URBAN                                          ..         64.9/d           83.8/d
RURAL                                          ..         10.61d           43.11d.
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(PERCENT OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           ..        27.0/d           37.0/d
URBAN                                          ..         54.8/G           65.5/..
RURAL                                           ..         2.5/d            3.RId               ..
POPULATION PER PNiYSICIAN                     720.0        307.0           400.0              1105.4                  620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 326.0/h      235.0            145.0              634.4                  246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                       140.0/h      124.0           114.O/&              2R6.8                 122.0
URBAN                                        so.o7h      134.0            129.O]j             192.0                 140.6
RUIRAL                                  ,-    ..            ..
AD!ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                      ..         20.8             21.6               20.0                   17.7
IIOUSINC
AVERACE SIZE OP HOUS0EOLD
TOTAL                                         3.1          3.0              2.8
URBAN                                          ..          2.7              2.7
RURAL                                           ..         1.2              3.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                                         2.4          2.0              1.5
URBAN                                          ..          1.9              1.5
RURAL                                          ..          2.0              1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                        74.6         91.7             94.0
URBAN                                          ..         96.6             99.0                  .                      .
RUPAL                                          ..         87.4             96.7



ANNEX I
-27-                                                   Page 2 of 5 pages
HUNGARY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HUNGARY                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- NOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
MOST RECDS         MIDDLE lNCOME         INDUSTRIALIZED
1960 /b      1970 /b        ESTIMATZ lb           EUROPE           MARWZ  ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED VROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                             101.0          97.0             97.0               102.9                   101.7
MALE                             103.0          98.0             97.0               107.1                   103.9
FEMALE                           100.0          97.0             97.0                99.0                   103.6
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                              47.0/1        32.0             40.0                 60.2                   88.4
MALE                               57.0T       26.0             33.0                 66.4                   83.4
FEMALE                            35.07T        38.0             47.0                54.Q                    84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)                30.4         47.3             53.0                 31.6                   18.2
?UPIL-TEACHER RATtO
PRIMARY                                        24.3         17.7              15.4                25.8                    20.3
SECONDARY                                      11.4         10.4               8.2                22.2                    16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                     96.7         98.0             98.5                 75.9                   98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND POPULATION             3.3         23.2             94.6                 51.0                  338.4
RAUtI  RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND POPULATION        222.8         244.8            252.1                157.2                 1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND POPULATION              10.4        171.1            252.3                123.7                  403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                           143.6        213.2             241.6               112.3                   331.2
CINEMA AN2;UAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA              14.0          7.7              6.7                  4.0                     3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)                  4681.0       4995.0            5044.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                               35.5         41.2              44.8                 36.6                   36.0
AGRICI:LTURE (PERCENT)                         37.0         24.8              20.5                38.7                     6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                             35.3         44.4              42.6                25.9                    37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                          46.9         48.3              47.1                44.5                    45.4
MALE                                           62.7          58.1             53.7                56.3                    58.9
FEMALE                                         32.1         38.6              40.9                32.8                    32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.7         o0r               0.7                 0.9                     0.8
INCOMI DISTRIBIUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS                12.1/e       11.5/            10.6/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS               34.8/;       33.7/e            32.3/1                ..                    43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 9.4/e        9.9/e            10.8/e                ..                     5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEIHOLDS               23.6/V       24.8/e            26.2/.                ..                    r6.5
POVErfY TARGET GROUPS
ESTr`A.ED ARSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBSAN
RlRAL
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN
RURAL                                             ..          ..                ..               406.6
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUM
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                            .             ..                                    ..
RURAL
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a rhe group averages for each indicator are popul*tion-weighted arithsrEic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not untform.
/b  Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bete.en 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969 and 1971; and for
Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  Women of reproductive age (17-49) using oral contraceptives.  /d  Percent of occupied dwellings.  /e  Percent of income
received by the respective percent of the population, and data refer to years 1962. 1972 and 1977.  /f  1980,  /g  1977.
lh 1962. /t 1960 data include part-time adult education, hence not comparable to later years, /i 1981.
February, 1983



ANNEX I
-28-                                                 ~~~~~Page 3 of 5 pages
"oee     .gouh the data aC. dree  fret  -oo.. wseerl  J0*.,  tta  -st  -MIL-a t-Oto  en    etaa1-tob                         l   ho notd the, they  -mtd oat  Indsa-
-ItoOu,    1ral     toa.   a   he leek of  _Wedardid doft tOito   and tooctte oo  hy diff erst tOmOtio  to aeLLattlag  Che let-   rb  date r..  d
031,.teu   odeeOtb. .,der. of -sfotcd.  -o tt   rn., Ind  obrctre    n.e... ad J.r diff--eeO   hOt.                    a     -note..
Irereorecagrepool  (i  Ca  arnctst      . aoo  ofith. loOo-   --gotr  ne  (2) C  -oatr  grasp aith    -hmt     high..  -.ner         L- tene . tha  th  Cooaor  Sto
df th  eehon  ooar   e tep   t             1tah 1teot    oil topn-tet  SCnne  +moe  (Nldia. beta  X-h MCIta  -d Niggle gaatl is tkee    heeae  of egooeg
oeoetca   ff ltta(   It ch.                SC.rnt   gro  d"t. Cot  -nrot  n. Potela-ton eeIthte   aotot            . for Oak      dlgi,,-   -dg  t-e  onl,    e
C(tt  f te  -Otri.. In . orot  toe dnatoo opec todICiCato.  Stat. CMt  -torag   If co-nteta   oat the ir.det    deefo                         lb. t -e 1     litllt, of data
.ne Lttt.     tfoa .   tti...    tat. h  enettoadto .gtt  eo.oo  of OOe ttdItotO   to  -loher   Tine.  .arIragg   Cre tof oef  .e togetthe veto  of
on-e ....C troeto  o Ca    -ac  CMe otnt-   .04 Cefarooa   pro...
a"0  (Ih-naoe  WOe.                                                                                   Ottta  O   ad-l-It  Mt - total. ahe  on  rt Al-  o.ot9t.d- tt
Total - T0001 onefate aro   etrtits. lat  ac   aglad   ostototdlOOt data "..ti.   dA  "C'edL) dirtndd  by their ropetv st                                        o   ee        hd
Aol    da~l - tttatt  cf aotonltoet te .W  -eo     . Iaepo ,rtt   or yeeootlr1 eeihLIo So                   L pg.l   v . ..prerego   gaea ni o.tt.ai       hdeatae.I.    to-
PC'P   etooo,meeea _AC       kiota  perd    or t I.IL. f.lloe: 1979 dat.                    hbilLt"tnae   otae... geiooae                abILsh."dt  Pertset-  otf fed
hrI et   ea  ns  pbeJ,t..  IetahI" ---e  Ir-eidALM  prSOS9IWY OOoer
10   UCI iUS*) - UPpe   ept n       e.into.    atnnret  soe  pCiLo...c.i-                      dial t-r  are at iaoidad.  Naalhopte.  h-'.e. iniLe healthic
caaa    ~eaCe.--Sa   -shd 00 Mnrld  Sek Mice  (1970.40 hrt.oie  1tM.                        e.d agtao   nt... .. .basl    es  e   hr apkr.1C1,  Cent b
1970. ead IWO  data.                                                                                 adt.ta.  VCoiataot  m., elmt.eife . 00.   hthS  offer ta-Vpcth~ 
lUtc0rUPigCht?   A-  d'c   oooteo    e.oe                        .t -coal                   tie.l  -aoe   arb. hopitole  LI."ld   WOe  rai*l  cee    eoieo
ead  t.gtte,potolto. osaoa  ga  0.  hydr-.  -aieo   .  sethera  al-                              -I .rlheptl. le-..  or r-Ia hOeptelds aed igoieg  tr
tieULty)  abl'iostt f e..aI *4tcLtaIe  P., t..itL; 1940, itO0. en  1079                              ctr.Sp.e"laltsa   heehttie are iatlded oar radar o.i.
data.                                                                         flfrup,.flt.khlfl.t,,    - ?otai tar  of atneia  en or Otahetseo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aglft   Ml -1= V    T.L-b, 
freheefoaadiidehythe  ..Mr of ho.".
01   tI  -mc  o           S   he ofLai  it 1000. lOOt. e-d low                  moat
data.              t     daeg   SlgofboOl   esoaofChaohed .,.L. o N"   tedt rSa
di~are05   afattoeeof  re. Itree  oar  ffdte coolarhLIfty cf date                           ted Oher aL. m-le.  A hoarde  or I"lod              -y or oar oar ho ttdod t.o
ooarae    0. 1070. -d tWO data Cth  heoeOd fo-eottta   obee
ftlPe"oIatioe  t7 -P  eg  a- oo  Ithei    rtl, ify an  f-rtiit  rae-dsllg.rcreier.D.iltog.  -I."avo-.aao    -ootr.ad
roJ-tI-s pat-n.r.  eNI artalit, rota  cOrtoa  of tCrm  100010                                     -.WLnootd Pre
ator. fr fertiify  rot  nlao  nto  the. lavole ea~,e   dalle  PiCt            oftVi .rn.nd  neAoeiemrepele
one  Lotr    in  he  atoe      d em  If theta      - tOn.beaetiao   of -rtoity tlTI
and fofotlLty te        far prttisPorem.                                                      ddein SWUoiMe   taiLde
1br1w OafM .0l   - 15, e  toeaar 'pot.iOtio    Oh . in      -rst  tL-e                             Prn,        ol    oal   I   end ( le  --On.501    La  aSd ftaL
thciirth   at  is  qm   toth   det    t.ad ale.  the age aereten-  to-                             Oso ttetn   1   gso   h    rtn    eta   ocoa. f r""aTir
of        repaoo   iOatf aoaot.  Th.  tcor   nnata    tsn                                           oato   -.th    erfae.otO   yOotta   eated 100 peroat
.otne   a. the haao of tea rteJatsd eetttrnOeso  thL..letoO                                            -t   "opil. ore heln o  ohosth  of            l aheL ag.
cia 0111 ho roathod.                                                      ono.ily of 12 to 17 Ysoro of a.; crrapoea   carsat  eeaaly
Y aroaiea ra           at   llta-e  (100 h....em) of                     Ynatoo  tooldtddtot  f                    -eood2rnl - V-,,,tItl L-iOtot. Id
On19r.  14.  It  n  1- 7  dC a                                                        toolag   tateical. tnd-etriet . ,o te   te              C%toh   o.rt   tepo-d-
re  t      1a ar -0tna  Its  -f.  .tedta  Oo            C fo   agie t.... oa  a            ttL."    a    =epoaee   of oaOgae  ttattC teo
Poroatis da  Stoetot   _tea) - CiTtldem  (0-it factoI. Ootlt.t-ete  (13-                      PoSe-r, andaodrylvedttg hrL otor A                    of   _h-r  to the
,.0-0  Ol9wintia0 fo   1080-dO . 10- 70. tolo 1900-at.
P-bOL-et.o  loah ie.. SErIat   - Corbae    - Oa Io Smote tCts of I.h..  fore-                   CIOfSWaT1f199I.i- Ad1
afro   for 1- Sf-df. 190-0.00 10706 .                                                          PoanotCr1(o  toon70-lotn,tsent   ot   cea                                       0
opaiot1900. 1970. and  ItO  dat.                                                            boaattOOrl7.10O.t.OO    ftoeaeo   o   ota
lroe  gerogotie  tat-koreg                                                                                                                 All 0   agtreatr01   ott    erte   eett   OcnttOaad1   to    he   ette  n   frdio
hed. ta D.     R.ooecr    eidi  aM  enp,:en. P treh...t dgonof id                o-                ae  a  lotS tC'h Cdat   o   ostyar   a   o   o  oprhst
h."rpoto      aotr.gaa.  tnaeo       aoltnkr0   eatt-                                             I  aenr Itotettoaoo  fOo.Oti-Oi .- It e., mot  for  -naot  to
I11 e.rtg      inaa aefrop=claio   t   alygeaa-Inoosoeeapr  dtf ted  e araidi
.f bCM         Mnrt,                                                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~pbietotgono   rttlrt  rrt i dg oete   eas i-t.  7*co toe
prdotta   n   i  foodL E   od   itlge.   trdatioeeoe    .do    W  f.ed end                        thokoo tol  deriog the yea.-  WInclote  adetoi.             to dron-le  ios
IL o  o-Aiad    rea  heoto.  fo.dtioecooIdr 0)-50  pode. (e.g. tttneaa                                    toooe
leate  ofasaf  ehthareeh. end  -.eat  tntrL- Cet  (0g. cott af ae
em   tooanoddl.dorotep,odootie  of .ath totett  it t.ad oe1010tO
natena  a.cst  ytdtaarpr,,t aighee; 190145. 1970. ad 1900 data.                            te(soPrs F         t.-  oda  - onoccy   te-neno   oldo
tsr tetta  oollyof caorleearf    L. of       . rseOat( - to It   froa                        ota   fre  eddoslrd bettcaio   oarns   tdna    t
Poe dey.  0neoi  aoP-eonid    ooi    rdaOOl.   -W-tt  Ie..                                        ttI.Ctooh          19S. 1970th  109W  Iot.
leattlefa   .od to food oottr.adls                   r  Oib.ttIhtt.   Aeeit-Crtc.or    erat  ,-Laottot  tt torer   w---ft  h..toto
ftoeehoid le-ol  1961.05. 1070 end 1977 d.te.                                                        W9L 17   m   00data
oat -op'YC ofCoa  Per da.    O   arl  of food Ia def iad 00 atv.    t"nttiyrts  r   otdt   oa.  ta-   an  f-eneity tIZtso
Slstafor all  -oetrta  et hlled by UtSDA tt-id. tOt 510.i                                   rocteeo   ca. ogle ad (t-le   O-rL.ti.. of IlI aa                      Ot. tOsr
oloat    of  SC t   of tota  Protet  per day ao"  10te          f aoaled14.170,  0                                I.9tt.  T"ee  Cre te...d ot IL.O ttcrfO ras
~leo  proOle. of .0cC  10 gas theIf _he ataipoen          ts.;to'                       ele   t  o-o    eotr   I  t   tnuttn   o   ostmrto
ania.i yyoeale ce toante., for tin notld   PIonae    hr Fe3 to to  fht             ftoOai  C.edre5t-    RatIo  fiotlto   Oo   5adS                                a
dnl  fo Inroet (tehZC.  f070 Ch0  -1477 date               y    I.to to tos I  dU.                                  tort. -UI   f-.    5-6    d-
rtd Ir    o.i - d3. ?   Onlec1-     r      or5ot 1197d0   100 O190777te.                    IfentOOIOttsi'I..   fC0
Child baa. -0  lOt   ot   ft  he) M,.p     k1      Oma   etoprtoae   e                             ocrtg    fPyt .-Loa (toth to eeo  and ttoo( - pee   d to ttch-e
3ragat   atod(o Y      Ife takos  tOd  1970 aol                                                 5.   0  1040dt,o   oa ta
00t.3                                                                                             PIUTO  TA10r7 GItOUPIP
lift ooeetrttt  t Sirb  (jar   ... Avrg   -6ar  of 7oots of lif. rsoioltt               Th: foIl.lovto  e-itoa oor    ryott -sroo  yonrt   tol.-.
at ho~h~  190. 10(  tOg i0 Oao.                                                            Mo  Oho-d ha totr- -rd! t-t  cma dat.bl   aoTon.
ltfet  perollr gt.   et hooaad   - p.onl death, of ofeta  toda  -0  rear                toEateddAatiotc P .... Itos   otel;"          (IIttpr  a tO-cbo                ttl-
ot  go  er   baaae  irMe-htr-ht19000  1070 sd14  dab..                                       oholt  pvet  tes  evltotatbonlat  Itlonehic  0 stttae
petoaageeof tfctt  eatoola pP.alttat.  In -to  Che  erd            toiil-eraoo  Wtoe   ofte"eIy rhrln    adros    r    h   o
do as  pere f to ph       dnr,onlo   parltL        of the da ith      Octolet the                              --     f  h                n.I-i1    .1dtC                    h  
(silO  c at-ar to20ed                                   f         t..,b.I.Lil                                               ,h,    If  t-               -.
Oeia  ottrt  aam Lctor-ntb o           -oratstO  - Chota. ora. d-I fe-a  -'                                                                                           -1
!eaer o  poapi  )tat L. rbae                                                                    C.4 era  Id.ooIhy eoret ditnolba
ponetaetofeea  tnPteaprttnt.O0. Sttocht.             so w fl   tattoaM
AoiI4..o.-flos-- PeyeLaia   etdea by  ..to   of. troiitpot-saOOce                                                                              ltta  OCte Oerdtnt
.t,bb  qoellfidd Era. a _le.i aheei 00 areorety iooe.                                                                             ieo         aA-ltsta ow Prolatinse  D.p.rtmet
?W0mPoe.-  Popoltte dtrided by  ~Ar of P-attleO                                                                                   Oar 1900
grs" ata. onm, nee -teetera,patelao 
-ing   .laSa



- 29-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Bil.       %                         1970-75              1975-80                1981
GDP at Market Prices              22.6      100.0                          6.3                  4.0                   2.5
Gross Domestic Investment          6.8       30.1                          6.2                  2.6                 -1.5
Gross Domestic Saving              6.5       28.8                         10.8                  5.7                   2.6
Resource Balance                 -0.3        -1.3
Exports of Goods, NFS              8.8       38.9                         10.4                  7.2                  4.7
Imports of Goods, NFS              9.1       40.3                          6.7                  4.7                  1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added                          Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
US $ Bil.      %                         Mil.      %                       US $        %
Agriculture                       3.9        17.1                      1.033     20.6                   3,775.4     93.3
Industry (Inc. Construction)    9.4          41.4                      2.123     42.3                   4,427.7    109.4
Services                          7.0        31.5                      1.860     37.1                   4,764.5     93.0
Unallocated Li                    2.3        10.0                        *      _                      _
Total/Average              22.6        100.0                     5.015    100.0                   4,047.9/2  100.0 /2
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
State Budget
(Forints Bil.)         % of GDP
1981         1981    1978-81
Current Receipts                  472.6          45.7       60.3
Current Expenditure               422.4          40.9       50.8
Current Surplus                     50.2          4.9        9.5
Capital Expenditures                59.7          5.8       10.3
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                        1976          1977          1978          1979          1980         1981
(Billion Forints outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      236.8         262.1         285.4         308.9        342.1         366.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector               410.8         477.9         568.9        614.3         665.5         715.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               64.8          74.5          86.0         100.5        113.1         127.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           49.7          45.1          45.4          45.4         47.6          47.3
General Price Index (1975 = 100)           105.0         109.1         114.1         124.3        135.6         141.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          5.0           3.9           4.6           8.9          9.1           4.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                27.1          16.3          19.0           8.0          8.3           7.5
Bank credit to Private Sector               16.8          15.0          15.4          16.9         12.5          12.7
/1 Customs duties and valuation differences which are not allocated by sector and show considerable fluctuation.
There is thus a distortion introduced into the interpretation of data on structural change in the economy.
/2 Excluding unallocated.
Not applicable                                                                           EPDES
March 31, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
- 30 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-81)
Trade in           Trade in
1978      1980      1981                                                                 Rubles           Non-Rubles
(Millions US $)                                                                 $ Mil.     %       $ Nil.
Exports of Goods                         6,565.5  8,877.7  8,893.2                     Fuels, electric energy                      21      0.6        249      6.2
Imports of Goods                         7,751.2  9,019.6  8,854.3                    Raw materials, semi-finished
Nonfactor Services (net)                   -85.1    -93.7       136.8                    products, spare parts                    915    26.4    1,464        36.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)              -1,270.8   -235.6       175.7                 Machinery, transport equipment,
other capital goods                    1,523    43.9        469    11.7
Interest Payments (net)                   -265.4   -389.2 -1,120.2                    Manufactured consumer goods                508      14.6       645    16.0
Workers' Remittances                          ..        ..        ..                  Agricultural goods                          503     14.5    1,197      29.7
Other Factor Payments (net)                    .         .         .                       Total                               3,470   100.0    4,024   100.0
Net Transfers                               98.9      48.2       47.2
Balance on Current Account             -1,437.3   -576.6   -897.3
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Direct Foreign Investment                   -3.8        2.6       2.4
Net MLT Borrowing                        1,106.8     775.7    958.7                                                          US $ Bil.
Received                             1,219.5    947.5  1,117.8
Extended                              -112.7   -171.8   -159.2                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            10.03
Subtotal                             1,103.0      778.3    961.1                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants                               ..         ..        ..                 Total outstanding 6 Disbursed             10.03
Other Capital (net)                        679.8    449.1   -563.8
Other Items n.e.i.                        -105.2   -134.1   -122.6                                                /1
Increase in Reserves (- = increase)  -240.4   -516.7    622.6                       EBT SERVICE RATIOO FOR 1981-
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             15.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed             15.8
RATE OP EXChANGE
October 1981                                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Decenber 1981) (Nil. US 5):
US $ 1.00 = 35 Forints
1.00 = US $ 0.3                                                                                                     IBRD    IDA
1981                                                                                  Outstanding 6 Disbursed
US $ 1.00 = 34.314                                                                    Undisbursed
1.00 = CS $ 0.3                                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
/1   Ratio of total debt service on medium- and long-term debt to total exports of goods and services.  The debt service ratio of
convertible currency debt to exports of goods and services in convertible currency (including short-term debt) was 33%.
Not available
Not applicable
EPDES
March 31, 1983



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
None
PI



- 32 -
ANNEX III
HUNGARY
GRAIN STORAGE AND MECHANIZATION PROJECT
Summary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)     Time taken by the country to               2 months (October and
prepare the project:                      November 1982).
b)     Agency which has prepared                  National Bank of Hungary
the project;                              and Ministry of Agriculture
and Food.
c)     Date of first presentation to
the Bank, and date of first Bank
mission to consider the project:           October 1982.
d)     Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission.                                   November 20, 1982.
e)     Date of completion of
negotiations:                             May 6, 1983.
f)     Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1983.
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions:  None
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of the loan would be as follows:
(i)   Prior to the loan effectiveness, NBH would submit to the Bank six
sample sub-project appraisals for review and acceptance (para. 60).
(ii)   NBH would test sub-projects' performance at appraisal and at
project completion by the economic rate of return methodology
acceptable to the Bank (para. 60).
(iii)  Sub-borrowers' accounts would be audited every year, within 4
months of the end of each fiscal year and a short form audit report
prepared, both in accordance with the Bank guidelines. These
reports , about 330, would be retained by NBH, and made available
to Bank supervision missions (para. 62).



h                      ~~HUNGARY                                                                                                _-s hoief~; 
+         =      tVstor9gTd                              ~~~CZ ECHOSLOVA KIA                                       --1         -     -       Clrn                            Egd          U. S  S  R.
r~~~2                      IC              5MEgr      ( ,5    IVegye cap,talk.TdCacJ<J                     .v,z 
--  Mogye icounty) b,, d.re  ,-,                                                             r      ,            ,A^\t          S 2         f/ 
AUSRIA                                                                                                                    _ 
>  W >*~~~~~~~~Ab~                                 *4 00  _<*,?X     tIb.nROAlAP
X          X   i.>                                     <$f W    0    ;                                                                                              X  ;S 0R 
t (   V t 09    0  S                                              0  t                            ;0 af  % >   h-ksXX                                                                                Ms*s >ensvee s~~~~~~~~~~~H
eac.esS dJ g c~~~~~~~~~~yhEre];g0gAf'jJDe<   Sw o,DltnTerombr
t   -a)NuYLn,zn    J                      I     .     v       (tv        9           ir       )        X                 )\           s    I     /                                5msrn1aimnbaowyx
s                                                                                                                                                              s   |   Vft   /  .    t .    K aposvdr 0 t t i t $ Wunho < j r Sf 5\e 22- ol aNv levtory O. a,>~~~O e b , - e
z < g=q/ ;f f t ; ; ' \ S~~~~~S< <v 7~~0/RO ANI'W  SA* 
-4b-                           w$t               ~                  I           0fC5g                S&  _ )                                           n*0 zX                                                                >                   <A;OC
Y~~~~~~d Uk    VIA<' S1_                                                       e  S                                                                     r_,BC>dLHR  
S-U~~~~~~~~~the ~ ~  ~         ~        ~         v        eh6        $.a   A                                                                             si                                           C ;f/R[CX
_ _  _  _   _                      _       _             _       _ _ . _                       ,



I                                                                                                                                I           I 



_  ___   _   _ ______                          ___                                                                          _    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 17061
F RANCE  G(ERMANY . ZC _tr U SR.h o ,- __APIL
AUSTRIA H_UN SAROAIA  trr nv.e th Y f   > 0;4i0 
$   rX                            ex,(  7      FO '.e ftensr                                                    fR,p  MA   {A                                                                          UA  
ff',',.,f  1,_ /  ,  i.  .YUC(  -_ [t  , ; 
W  2  e  t H <  _ .n >do . me>.E.)LrsA( lqn t*/  .ii;RA3,=  ,%  
r    1         ~TALY                                                                                                                                                             A< M W                  r        R        ,,,  
Sd-ie-  ?*nWMM S      
ALAs A,                                                                                                                                               J- ZEMPLEN:1'',w    ' b t 3 /  <0 4; ; R 5i X j'1    [] ; '8U .-t4' ''
9fi^4~~Gm< R F EE                                )                             >;;ti^2,i8%i\       /tV5\ 0    W                                                                               t
Py   :X=:.  S,; :Xji                     ,    9.<                   iS;                                              g       ,         S'e'\TURKEY'     :                           . 
;  w     ,   jj   N  j5FE  Eni: XE 2 t;,A    :Ea, u    :,    : :k::  :;':; t ,1 r- 5fQL    .:
p   A  i    VEZPIReM 1 :,  ,    t  i,0                     ,/CS               wn   ,,         GRA,         i   g,jq     ,i      q  
: u 1i' X D t E ff / s  < R r. , ,; X Z ,                    ,v;       ,;t                             ? - - S R                                   h rs
'eq -/-i2 .t   aa:(                                                                                                                                           _.        ee(onl)budre
6'R"                                                                      t XE5@NY:, rv:    OEr50__ITqCinlbuC lS
@>RO                                                         T          gAg< *MLE t                                                             O      .        O      t        0     b 
S;-\if'0L                                                                                                                                            2                         .



I                                                                                                                            I



F       RANCE                ./GERM4   tpyg   S   A  CZ  EC  H  8  U  S  S | - 20 r Y . r r > I B R D 170c O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD1706
FRANe  GEMI                     U S:uEC  S TRKF  ot/                                        (                        <        8        
0 i i i r3  OMAkeevrg /PEST<DoNIAt~    GRAIN STORAGE AN     RCSIGFACILITIES
J  g  . 9, @ v95.pU6m4 , aOtraFejrs f 4.f, iz/ au18 blXlcl0r Si JII, -11 F- 2I1
Y   0X0 L g/  OOeSAVIWlt (S                                                                                     iD ,Lk1l   L
'~~~~~~A                                                                                        / P-       BORSOD F >  -AB'A ':J-ZeMPLEN  >OV AM  F FR
trd,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`                            o                                                  SZTA        a 6f3.X 
14  6 r ,> _$ r-,e NORAD212 03-4 0o0'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ee                                                       CY_               IN ',-   -



