OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS LOAN KJMBER 2316 HU
Loan Agreement
(Grain Storage and Agricultural Mechanization
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
Dated                             , 1983


﻿LOAN NUKBER 2316 HU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS 1UCTI4    AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Hungarian People's Republic (hereinafter
called the Guarantor or Hungary) and the Borrower have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B)   by an agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other
obligations as therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICIK I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to a
Beneficiary for an Investment Project;


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "Beneficiary" means GT, a State Enterprise which is a
constituent member of GT, IKR or a State or Cooperative Farm to
which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(c)  "GT" means the Grain Trust, a State Enterprise estab-
lished and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
(d)   "IKR" means the Industrial Corn Production System, a
Common Enterprise established by a Contract of Association dated
October 1, 1973 and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
(e)  "State or Cooperative Farm" means a farming enterprise
recognized as a State Farm or a Cooperative Farm under the laws
of the Guarantor, including a State or Cooperative Farm which is
a constituent member of KITE;
(f)  "KITE" means the Maize and Industrial Crops System, an
Economic Association established by a Contract of Association
dated July 28, 1972 and operating under the laws of the
Guarantor;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific grain storage -or
grain production mechanization development project to be carried
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(h)   "Basic Law" means Law Decree No. 36 of 1967 of the
Presidential Council of the Guarantor;
(i)   "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines regu-
lating the provision of credit by financial institutions within
Hungary as established by Resolution No. 2028 of 1980 of the
Council of Ministers of the Guarantor, as amended to the date of
this Agreement; and
(j)   "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry of the Guarantor, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred   thirty   million   four   hundred    thousand   dollars
($130,400,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and in respect of the fee specified in Section 2.05 of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred twenty-five thousand one hundred
eighty-seven dollars ($325,187).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the ccat,
expressed as a percentage per adnum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or        the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Mauagement and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project, and conduct its lending and investment operations
and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and invest-
ment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and staff and in accordance with the Basic Law and the
Credit Policy Guidelines.
(b) For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project,


﻿- 5 -
the Borrower shall make available to the Guarantor the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (14) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
on the terms provided in Section 3.01 (b) of the Guarantee Agree-
ment.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part A of the
Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and        services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Parts A and B cf
the Project to be used exclusively for the purposes of the said
Parts of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, make Sub-loans
to Beneficiaries for Investment Projects under Part A of the
Project on the basis of the criteria and on the terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b) supervise and monitor the execution by Beneficiaries of
Investment Projects in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)   exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such a manner as to: (i) protect the intereGts of the
Bank and -L1e Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the
Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
Parts A and B of the Project (including the cost thereof, as
appropriate, and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in said Parts of the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed therefor out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents, and to review the
Beneficiaries' accounts, financial statements and records, as
well as the audit thereof, to be furnished to the Borrower
pursuant to paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts A and
B of the Project, their cost and, as appropriate, the benefits to
be derived therefrom, the Beneficiaries, the Investment Projects
and the Sub-loans, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
for Parts A and B of the Project and the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Sub-loans and the goodsand services financed out
of  such  proceeds, including, without     limitation, quarterly
progress reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
to be furnished to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each
quarter.
(b) Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for Parts A and B of
the Project, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, incorporating the, information to be furnished by the
Guarantor  pursuant   to  Section  3.03  (c)   of  the  Guarantee
Agreement, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, including the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Guarantor and the
Bank  of  their   respective  obligations  under   the  Guarantee
Agreement and by the Bank and the Borrower of their respective


﻿- 7 -
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof and, as appropriate, the
benefits to be derivc! therefrom), including without limitation,
a separate account adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower in respect
of Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts and records, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Afreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,


﻿-8-
that the foregcing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred
for the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (a) open and thereafter maintain a special
account on its books and shall, upon receipt of each repayment or
payment from Beneficiaries of principal, interest and other
charges under the sub-loans, credit the same to the said special
account in accordance with its usual financial procedures. All
amounts so credited to the said special account shall be used by
the Borrower, t the extent they are not yet required to meet the
Borrower's r',payment obligations to the Bank pursuant to the Loan
Agreement, ,.lusively to finance capital investments for agri-
cultural u'> elopment in Hungary in accordance with the Credit
Policy Guidelines; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Bank
quarterly reports, in scope and form satisfactory to the Bank, on
the status of the said special account and the uti'ization of the
funds credited thereto in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure the provision of
loans to Beneficiaries to the extent needed by such Beneficiaries
to assist them in the purchase and utilization of the fertilizer
and plant protection materials to be procured and made available
by the Guarantor for these purposes pursuant to Section 4.03 of
the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Basic Law or
the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A and B
of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event
'cified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
appraisal and related documents, prepared in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and satisfactory to
the Bank, with respect to at least (i) two Investment Projects
for off-4prm grain storage development, (ii) two Investment
Projects for on-farm grain storage development, and (iii) two
Investment   Projects   for   grain   production   mechanization
development.
Section 6.02. The date    O & ,           95 i  , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
National Bank of Hungary
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsag ter 8-9
Hungarian People's Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANKO                              227267 SMAFU H
Budapest                           225755 BANKO H
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
By>/    Tz-A    --  Author zed Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Dry grain metal           32,000,000 )
silos and silo                      )
modernization                        )
equipment                            )
(2) Heavy-duty                7,000,000   )
tractors                            )
(3) Tillage equip-           10,000,000  )       100% of foreign
ment                                 )      expenditures
)      and 100% of local
(4) Planting equip-           8,500,000   )      expenditures (ex-
ment                                 )      factory cost)
(5) Fertilizing and           4,500,000  )
spraying equip-                     )
ment                                 )
(6) Corn header and           4,500,000  )
shredder equip-                     )
ment, straw balers                   )
and bale headers                     )
(7) Pneumatic grain          15,000,000          100% of foreign
handling equip-                             expenditures
ment


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Wet grain glass-         7,000,000  )
lined silos                         )
(9) Rapid moister              500,000  )
meters                              )
(10) Grain and              29,000,000  )
forage                             )
harvesters                          )
(11) Multipurpose           11,600,000  )
tractors                            )
(1.2) Consultants'             200,000  )      100% of foreign
services for                       )      expenditures
Part A of the                       )
Project                            )
(13) Consultants'               60,000  )
services for                       )
Part B of the                       )
Project                             )
(14) Training under            214,813  )
Part C of the                      )
Project                             )
(15) Fee                       325,187         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
TOTAL             130,400,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of an- country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods and
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocations of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
5.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such -expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist in the further development of grain
storage capacity and mechanization of grain production within
Hungary in accordance with the Guarantor's Five-Year (1981-1985)
National Development Plan.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The financing, through the provision of loans, including
Sub-loans, by the Borrower, of Investment Projects by Benefi-
ciaries comprising, inter alia, the provision, installation and
utilization of mechanical and electrical installations and
agricultural machinery, and including, with respect to the
Investment Projects to be carried out by IKR, GT and the State or
Cooperative Farms which are constituent members of KITE, the
further development of their management information systems.
Part B:
The development and application by the Borrower of appro-
priate policies and procedures for identifying and appraising
specific agricultural development projects to be financed through
the provision of loans by the Borrower.
Part C:
The carrying out by the Guarantor, through MAF, of:
(1) a study to analyze the effect of prices of agricultural
products on agricultural production and efficiency; and
(2)   training programs to develop the skills of (a) MAF
staff in the evaluation of the technical performance and suitabi-
lity of agricultural machinery and equipment and in the
alternative applications of agricultural mechanization; and (b)
the State and Cooperative Farm's grain storage specialists and
workers in grain storage and handling operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March I and September 1
beginning March 1, 1987
through   March 1, 1998                     5,435,000
On   September 1, 1998                           5,395,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         .20
before maturity
More than three years but not                     .40
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                       .73
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    .87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                         1.00
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating ther9to, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (delivery at frontier) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and


﻿- 18 -
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
2.   After bids have been received and evaluated, the     Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The  Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without
the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
4.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to
the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
5.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for, and Principal Terms
and Conditions of, Sub-loans
1.   The Borrower shall make     Sub-loans  to Beneficiaries for
Investment Projects under Part A of the Project on the basis of
the criteria and on the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth or referred to in this Schedule and in accordance with the
provisions of the Credit Policy Guidelines.
2.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equiva-
lent in the currency of the Guarantor. (determined as of the date
or respective dates of withdrawal) of the value of the currency
or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account on account of the
cost of goods and services for the Investment Project financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) through (12) of the table set forth in. paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3.   Sub-loans: (a) for grain production mechanization develop-
ment shall each have a maturity of six years, including a grace
period of one year; and (b) for grain storage development, shall
have an average maturity of eight years, provided that the
maturity of each such Sub-Loan shall not be more than ten years
or less than six years, including a grace period of one year. All
Sub-loans shall be charged interes*t at a rate of not less than
14% on the principal amount of each Sub-loan withdrawn and jut-
standing from time to time.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and of the
Borrower, including:
(a)  (i) the right to require the Beneficiary to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards, (ii) the right to require that the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project, (iii) the right of the Bank and of the Borrower to
inspect such goods and the sites and works included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents, (iv) the right to require that the Bene-


﻿- 20 -
ficiary take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice, (v) the right to obtain all such information as the
Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of the Beneficiary and the benefits .o be derived from the
Investment Project, and (vi) the right of the Borrower to suspend
or terminate the .right of the Beneficiary to the use of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform
its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower; and
(b)   the right to require the Beneficiary to (i) maintain
records adequate to    reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition, (ii) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, (iii) furnish to the
Borrower as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited, and the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall have reasonably
requested, and (iv) furnish to the Borrower such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts, financial statements, and records,
as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or the Borrower shall
from time to time reasonably request.
5.    Sub-loans shall be made only for Investment Projects whose
technical, financial and economic feasibility shall have been
established on the basis of appropriate appraisals which shall
include in the case of each such Investment Project, a calcula-
tion of the internal economic rate of return, all as shall be
established in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank; provided, however, that:
(a)   Sub-loans shall be made only for Investment Projects
with an internal rate of return of at least 14% each, calculated
on the basis of the guidelines referred to hereinabove; and
(b)  Sub-loans for grain storage development shall be made
only for Investment Projects which shall have been approved
pursuant to the evaluation to be carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
6.     Sub-loans to IKR, GT, the State Enterprises which are
constituent members of GT and the State and Cooperative Farms
which are constituent members of KITE shall include terms
requiring each to employ, in order to assist it in the further
development of its management information system, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   t      day of  4     , 198 1 .
FOR SECRETARY


