Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3871-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJEC'
November 16, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korea Won
US$1          =    Won 740
WI            =    US$0.00135
WI million    =    US$1,351
WI billion    =    US$1.35 million
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Korea                         January 1 - December 31
Small and Medium Industry Promotion         January 1 - December 31
Corporation
Small and Medium Industry Bank              January 1 - December 31
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank                 January 1 - December 31
Citizens National Bank                      January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOK          -   Bank of Korea
CCCN         -   Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature
CNB          -   Citizens National Bank
DFC          -   Development Finance Company
EPB          -   Economic Planning Board
HCI          -   Heavy and Chemical Industries
KAIST        -   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KCGF         -   Korea Credit Guarantee Fund
KDB          -   Korea Development Bank
KDI          -   Korea Development Institute
KFSB         -   Korea Federation of Small Business
KHIC          -   Korea Heavy Industries Corporation
KLB          -   Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KOPTEC       -   Korea Production Technology Corporation
KOSAMI       -   Korea Society for the Advancement of Machinery
Industries
KTAC         -   Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC         -   Korea Technology Development Corporation
MAS          -   Manufacturing Advisory Service
MCI           -   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MIPF         -   Machinery Industry Promotion Fund
MOF          -   Ministry of Finance
MOST         -   Ministry of Science and Technology
NIF          -   National Investment Fund
PROTIP       -   Production Technology Improvement Program
R&D          -   Research and Development
SAL          -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SMI          -   Small and Medium Industries
SMIB         -   Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC        -   Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF        -   Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
TA           -   Technical Assistance
TOR          -   Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA - THE SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND  .1.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
A.  The Manufacturing Sector ... .  .  .   .  .                  1
B.  The Machinery Industries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
C.  Constraints to Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
D.  Policies Affecting the Machinery Industries  . . . . . .    9
E.  The Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy for Korea . . . .   13
II.  THE PROJECT  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
A.  Project Background and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . .   15
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
C.  Project Costs and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .   .    21
A. Technical Assistance and Training: the Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC)  . . . . .   21
B.  Credit Component:  The Participating Financial
Institutions . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
IV.  THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
A.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
B.  Features of the Proposed Loan  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
C.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
D.  Agreements Reached and Recommendation. . . . . . . . . .   38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Korea in
January 1982. Mission members included Messrs. B. Cu Kok, H.J. Lesshafft,
S.J. Talbot, and D.A. Ogilvie (Consultant). Messrs. F.T. Moore,
R.J. Hemingway and I. Robertson (Consultant) and Mrs. S. Moshir-Fatemi
participated in the preappraisal mission in September/October 1981.
Messrs. F.T. Moore, E. Njomo, and A. Toft participated in the post-appraisal
mission in June 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1  Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Table I Structural Change in the Manufacturing
Sector, 1972-80 ... .  .  .  .  .   ......  .   .    41
Table 2  Structure of the Machinery Industries, 1980 . . .    42
Table 3  Size Structure of Machinery Industries, 1980. . .    43
Table 4 Production Indexes for Machinery Industries . . .    44
Table 5  Capacity Utilization Ratios by Industry . . . . .    45
Table 6  SMIs Operating at Normal Operating Ratios . . . .    46
Table 7 Export Projections, 1981-86 . . . . . . . . . . .    47
Table 8  Imports of Machinery by Major Developed
Countries ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .   .    48
Table 9 Growth in Domestic Demand and Domestic Shares
for Machinery Industries  . . . . . . . . . . .    49
2   Letter of Development Policy for the Machinery Industries        50
Table I Key Aspects of Policy Developments Affecting
Machinery Industries. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    63
3   SMIB's, KLB's and CNB's Projected Lending Operations to
Machinery Industries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
4  Policy Statement of SMIPC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    65
5   Strategy Statement for Production Technology
Improvement of the Machinery Industries, 1983-86  . . . . .    69
6  The Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
Table 1 Projected Income Statements, 1982-1991. . . . . .    72
Table 2  Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1982-1991 . . . .    73
Table 3 Projected Balance Sheets, 1982-1991 . . . . . . .    74
Table 4 Cost Recovery Guidelines for PROTIP . . . . . . .    75
7   Participating Financial Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . .    77
Table I Basic Data for SMIB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    77
Table 2  Basic Data for KLB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    79
Table 3 Basic Data for CNB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    81
8   Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of Proposed
Bank Loan ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  83
9   List of Documents in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . .    84
CHART: Organization of Small and M4edium Industry Promotion
Corporation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  85



KOREA - THE SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Manufacturing Sector
1.01       Contribution to Economic Growth.  In the space of only two decades,
Korea has transformed itself from an impoverished, largely agricultural-based
country into a middle-income industrializing nation. Per capita GNP (at 1980
prices) increased from US$477 in 1962 to US$1,627 in 1981. The manufacturing
sector has been the engine of Korea's economic growth with an annual growth
rate of 15.5% (in constant prices) between 1960 and 1981. The share of manu-
facturing value added in GNP increased from 14% to 30% over this period and
created approximately 2.5 million new jobs, representing about 37% of total
additional employment absorbed by the economy. This growth in manufacturing
was led by very rapid export expansion; the share of manufactured exports in
total exports increased from 20% in 1961 to over 90% in 1981.
1.02       Structural Change in Manufacturing.  During the early phase of
industrialization, spanning the 1960s and early 1970s, manufactured exports
were concentrated largely on light industrial goods (e.g. textiles, apparel,
and wood products) in which Korea demonstrated a comparative advantage based
on low cost and efficient labor. Government policies emphasized the promotion
of exports through tariff exemptions on materials and equipment to be used
directly or indirectly for export production and through financial incentives
which provided exporters with automatic access to short-term export credits at
subsidized interest rates. These subsidies approximately compensated export-
ers for the (albeit relatively low average levels of) protection afforded to
production for the domestic market./1
1.03       From the early 1970s, however, increased importance was attached to
industrial deepening and diversification with emphasis on the development of
heavy and chemical industries (HCI), including the machinery industries. This
shift in priorities reflected recognition that Korea was gradually losing its
comparative advantage in export industries based on low cost labor and that it
should begin to develop more sophisticated products relying on a more skilled
labor force with higher technical capabilities. Numerous special laws were
implemented for the promotion of priority industries. Preferential, low-cost
financing was made available, through the National Investment Fund (NIF) and
other special funds, and selected industries received generous tax exemptions
and concessions.
/1 See for example, Industrial Policy and Development in Korea, IBRD Staff
Working Paper No. 263, August 1977.



- 2 -
1.04      Recent Problems and Policy Responses.  In retrospect, the result-
ing growth of manufacturing investment in these priority areas was too rapid
and focussed somewhat excessively on large, capital-intensive industries (such
as heavy machinery and petrochemicals), resulting in a sharp rise in capital
intensity of output and overcapacity. At the same time, industries not eli-
gible for these special promotion measures (e.g., traditional export indus-
tries such as textiles and clothing as well as small and medium machinery
industries) faced greater difficulty than they would have without these
special promotion schemes in gaining access to resources necessary to
upgrade quality and move into more technologically sophisticated areas of
production. The onset of international economic recession in 1979 exacer-
bated the problems of excess capacity and misallocation of investment
resources by triggering a substantial reduction of industrial output, with
machinery industries among the most seriously affected activities.
1.05      The Government has recognized these problems and has instituted a
number of policy adjustments. In the area of industrial and trade policies
the Government recently outlined a number of important measures and a
medium-term structural adjustment program in a Letter of Development Policy
for 1982-86. The letter provided the basis for the Bank's first Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) of US$250 million which was approved in December
1981./i The main features of the structural adjustment program relating to
the manufacturing sector include: a comprehensive review of industrial
incentives and protection policies with the aim of developing policies for
promoting more competitive conditions and reducing the role of Government in
directing resource allocation; development of programs for restructuring and
consolidation of large industries currently suffering from substantial
excess capacity; and the strengthening of project appraisal capacity in
Government agencies and key financial institutions for the better evaluation
of major projects. Government measures in support of technological develop-
ment have also been strengthened substantially (see para. 1.22).
1.06      A comprehensive program of reform for the financial sector, with
emphasis on liberalizing the operations of financial intermediaries, was
launched in 1980. This program included interest rate policy, rationaliza-
tion of the NIF, and denationalization of commercial banks. In line with the
increasing focus of the Bank's lending on sectoral policy this reform program
was reviewed in the context of two recent lending operations to the Korea
Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) (Loan No.1932-KO) and the Korea Development Bank
(KDB) (Loan No. 1933-KO). A package of specific policy measures agreed upon
during negotiations of these two projects is expected to improve the effi-
ciency with which resources are allocated by the financial system. At the end
of June 1982, the Government implemented a package of wide-ranging economic
reforms including a reduction in interest rates by four percentage points and
regulatory steps to discourage future transactions in the curb money market.
/1 See IBRD President's Report No. P-3156-KO, November 17, 1981.



- 3 -
The main rationale of these measures was to stimulate the Korean economy and
to provide a degree of relief for highly leveraged domestic corporations.
The Bank is currently conducting discussions with the Government on these
reforms and assessing their long run implications. The issues will be treated
more specifically in the context of a proposed financial sector loan (para.
1.31).
B. The Machinery Industries
1.07      Organization and Performance.  The machinery industries/i subsec-
tor is broadly defined to include certain metal products (e.g., handtools,
nuts and bolts); general machinery (e.g. engines and turbines, agricultural
machinery and equipment, textile, metal and woodworking machinery); electri-
cal machinery (e.g., transformers, switchgear, radios and TVs); transport
equipment (e.g., ships, railway equipment and motor vehicles) and precision
machinery (e.g., measuring equipment and photographic apparatus). In terms
of size distribution, small and medium /2 machinery producers accounted for
94% of enterprises, 38% of employment, 24% of gross output and 28% of value
added of the machinery subsector in 1980.  In 1972, the machinery industries
accounted for only 13% of manufacturing value added and 11% of manufactured
exports.  During the period 1972-80 their volume of output grew at an annual
rate of 37% compared with 19% for the manufacturing sector as a whole and by
1980, they accounted for 22% of manufacturing value added and 21% of manu-
facturing exports (and 20% of total exports).
1.08      Small and medium producers in 1980 comprised 98% of number of
enterprises, 63% of employment, 50% of gross output, and 50% of value added of
the general machinery subsector, which is expected to account for the major
part of the technical assistance and credit under this project.  The general
machinery subsector accounted for some 2.5% of gross output, 3% of value
added, and 2.5% of exports of the-manufacturing sector as a whole and about
15% of gross output, 19% of value added, and 10% of exports of machinery
industries. During 1972-80, the general machinery industries' volume of
output grew at an average annual rate of 34% and exports at an average annual
rate of 37%. Details regarding the structure and growth performance of the
subsector are shown in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.
/1  Machinery industries are those manufacturing activities which fall under
the International Standard Industrial Classifications (ISIC) Category
38, i.e., the "manufacture of fabricated metal products, machinery
and equipment." See New York: United Nations, Indexes to the
International Standard Industrial Classifications of All Economic
Activities, (ST/STAT/M.4/Rev. 2/Add.1, 1971).
/2  Small and medium machinery producers are generally defined (in various
laws and decrees) as enterprises with either less than W 500 million
in assets or less than 300 employees.



-4-
1.09      The Role of Machinery Industries in Korea's Economic Development.
There are a number of major reasons for the growing importance of the
machinery industries in Korea's industrial growth. Firstly, Korea's compar-
ative advantage has begun to shift away from the relatively unskilled,
labor-intensive industries due to rising wages relative to other developing
countries, the rising competitiveness of these other developing countries in
Korea's traditional exports, and the rising protectionism in countries which
have traditionally been Korea's markets for its light industrial exports.
Secondly, Korea has, over the last fifteen years, developed its technical
manpower and a highly educated labor force and has begun to demonstrate its
capacity to produce selected machinery products, especially parts, components
and subassemblies which form the core of the machinery industries. Korea's
future areas of comparative advantage are expected increasingly to be in
higher technology industries due to continued development of its skilled
labor force which, nevertheless, will still command lower wages than in most
developed countries which have much higher per capita income levels. Thirdly,
machinery industries have close linkages with other machinery industries and
with other sectors of the economy as suppliers of essential parts, components
and finished capital equipment. These linkages provide potential for rapid
expansion of domestic demand for those locally-produced machinery products
which can be produced at cost and quality levels competitive with imported
supplies. Conversely, the competitiveness of machinery-using industries can
be considerably enhanced by ready access to high quality, low cost local
sources of supply.
1.10      Future Prospects.  Projections embodied in the Fifth-Five Year
Economic and Social Development Plan (the Fifth Plan), indicate that the
manufacturing sector is expected to continue as the main engine of growth
over the period 1982-86 with an average annual growth rate of 11% (in real
terms), increasing its share of GNP from about 29% in 1980 to 34% in 1986.
Within the manufacturing sector, the machinery industries are projected to
grow at about 18% p.a., almost double the rate of growth of the next fastest
growing manufacturing subsector (light industries, with a growth rate of
9.5%). On the basis of these projections, machinery's share of manufacturing
value added would increase from 17% in 1980 to 23% in 1986. By 1986,
exports of machinery are expected to account for more than 32% of total
exports, compared with less than 20% in 1980 (Annex 1, Table 7). To achieve
this projected growth in machinery output, the Fifth Plan projects that
investments in these industries amounting to W 6 trillion (about US$9 billion)
would be needed between 1982 and 1986, lifting the share of total investment
in the manufacturing sector contributed by these industries from 24% during
1972-79 to 37% during 1982-86./i The projected increases for machinery
/1 The respective shares of total national investment are 5.6% during
1972-79 and 8.3% during 1982-86.



exports are massive, from US$3.5 billion in 1980 to US$17.3 billion in 1986,
or an average annual rate (in real terms) of about 22%. They imply a more
than three-fold increase for general machinery and more than two-fold
increase for transport equipment.
1.11      These are very ambitious targets and will be difficult to achieve
because of the slow economic recovery expected in Korea's anticipated export
markets, the severity of competition in machinery industry exports, and the
length of time needed to improve quality and productivity and export market-
ing of machinery products. While the projections for the machinery indus-
tries appear to be optimistic, it is clear nevertheless that the Government
intends that the machinery industries should play the key role in Korea's
manufacturing growth during the Fifth Plan period. Without rapid growth of
these industries, the momentum of Korea's economic development could be
severely impeded since no other sector or subsector appears capable of
generating the necessary economic expansion. Further, although the domestic
market for machinery has grown rapidly (see Annex 1, Table 9), its absolute
size will remain a limiting factor and therefore development of the machinery
industries must be essentially export-oriented to achieve the targeted growth
rates. The success of this development will depend on favorable conditions
both in terms of market (demand) conditions and the ability of the industry
to compete in securing a share of the market (supply conditions), including
possibly the provision for financing for machinery exports (para. 1.21).
1.12      An analysis of trade and markets in machinery products indicates
that the trade in these products has risen rapidly throughout the world.
The volume of machinery imports by Korea's three major markets (US, Japan and
Germany - which collectively absorbed more than 50% of Korea's machinery
exports in 1979) has been rising and diversifying in the range of products.
Also, in contrast to the spectre of protectionism in developed country
markets against imports of Korea's traditional export products, machinery
products have not, in general, been subject to substantial protection.
Imports of machinery by these three countries over the period 1970 to 1979
are shown in Annex 1, Table 8. Less developed country (LDC) markets for
machinery products grew more rapidly than those of developed countries during
the 1970s; they appear also to offer good potential for future expansion of
Korean exports. Overall, export markets, while difficult to tap, offer
feasible growth opportunities over the longer term, and demand conditions
pose a difficult though not insurmountable obstacle to development. Korea's
problems are primarily on the supply side, as discussed below.
C. Constraints to Development
1.13      The economic recession in Korea, which has continued since 1979,
has served to highlight major structural imbalances and inherent weaknesses
in the technical and technological capacity of the machinery subsector,
particularly in general machinery. For the large heavy machinery producers,
the recession closely followed the massive expansion programs which were



-6-
fostered by the rapid expansion of Government subsidized credit and the pro-
vision of generous tax incentives to heavy industries. Korea's major indus-
trial conglomerates competed with each other to establish a production base in
these Government-sponsored industries, thereby contributing to serious dupli-
cation of facilities and the creation of capacity considerably in excess of
levels consistent with market size or technical and engineering capabilities.
At the same time, small and medium producers of parts, components and
subassemblies experienced difficulty in obtaining term-financing to expand or
upgrade their facilities as a consequence of the emphasis given to large heavy
machinery producers in the credit allocation process. Imbalances appeared,
therefore, within the machinery subsector with excessive capacity for assembly
of large end-products and inadequate and outdated capacity for the production
of parts, components and subassemblies.
1.14      The difficulties faced by these large producers in making efficient
use of their new facilities were severely exacerbated by the onset of
economic recession (in Korea and in world markets) and many have been operat-
ing at substantially below 50% of capacity. On the other hand, small and
medium machinery producers do not appear to have faced major problems of
under-utilized capacity./1  Nevertheless, they face serious technical and
managerial difficulties which must be overcome if they are to play the key
role envisaged for them in Korea's industrial development strategy.
1.15      The Government has already initiated a number of actions to address
the problems faced by the heavy machinery industries. As previously noted,
the Government is committed to reducing the subsidy element of NIF lending so
that it no longer is a major distorting influence and reviewing industrial
incentives in the context of the SAL agreements, with the objective of
increasing the role of the market in resource allocation. Also, some
restructuring of the segments of the heavy machinery industries most affected
by the excessive expansion programs has already taken place. Beginning in
August 1980, the Government took a series of actions to rationalize investment
in the heavy machinery sector. The number of enterprises permitted to engage
in particular areas of production was reduced, planned investment in poten-
tially duplicative facilities was postponed indefinitely and additional long-
term capital was provided to major producers to improve their financial
strength and permit balancing and rationalizing of their capital structure.
/1 This conclusion is supported by the results of a recent survey of
15,000 firms in the Korean Federation of Small Business (KFSB), of which
3,400 firms were in the category of "metal products, machinery and
equipment." The survey showed that over 90% of the sampled firms in
the latter category reported having capacity utilization ratios of
80% or above during October 1981, compared with a corresponding
figure of 75% for all small and medium manufacturing enterprises in
the survey. Even during 1980, when overall operating ratios were at
their lowest levels, more than 70% of these small and medium metal
and machinery producers reported operating ratios of 80% or above.



- 7 -
Further, in the context of the SAL, a Task Force was formed to review the
problems of the heavy and chemical sector and make recommendations regarding
possible measures for the promotion of exports and strengthening engineering
capacity in the sector.
1.16      The Bank's Sector Report on the Korean machinery industries /1
found that machinery producers, particularly small and medium general
machinery producers, in most cases, are not able to effectively use their
existing equipment to obtain maximum output at acceptable quality standards.
By international standards, their scale of output is low, costs are high and
quality is low. Producers face serious problems in areas such as choice of
equipment, operating practices, labor training, product quality and level and
absorption of technical know-how. These problems must be addressed and
resolved if Korean machinery industries are to progress beyond exporting
relatively simple, standardized products which have constituted the bulk of
Korea's rapidly growing machinery exports to date but for which the prospects
for continued rapid export expansion appear limited,/2 and domestic industry
will have to continue to rely heavily on imported machinery and equipment.
Resolution of these problems is also essential if Korea is to be competitive
with developing country machinery exporters, which supply the lower end of
the market, and even more so if Korea is to compete with developed country
machinery exporters, which supply the more sophisticated segments of the
market.
1.17      Resolution of these managerial and technological problems is likely
to be achieved more quickly and efficiently in an environment in which
Government policies, including financial, trade and investment policies, are
consistent with and supportive of efficient working of the market mechanism.
Nevertheless, although competitive pressure can provide a more receptive
atmosphere for the diffusion of improved operating efficiency, explicit
attention to improving institutional mechanisms in areas such as dissemination
of information and training is needed to encourage the introduction of
improved technology and efficiency. Although machinery industries in general
need technical assistance and training, small and medium enterprises are felt
to need special attention since they have less capacity than larger enter-
prises to obtain assistance on their own. Also, small and medium producers
constitute the core of the general machinery industries; and this is expected
to be an area where investments in technical assistance and training are
likely to have the highest pay-offs (paras. 3.23, 3.26 and 3.29).
/1 Korea: Development of the Machinery Industries (A Case Study in
Strategy and Tactics), IBRD Report No. 2130-KO, March 19, 1979.
/2 For example, Korean lathes exported to the US are used mainly by
training institutions where tolerances and load factors are not
prime concerns. This market is relatively limited, however, and,
in order to break into the much larger market for the more sophisticated
production lathes, substantial improvements in design and quality
aspects will be required.



1.18      In recognition of the need for institutional suDport for the upgrad-
ing of technical and technological caDacities of Korea's industries, the
Government has created a number of institutions to upgrade Korean industrial
technology along various stages of the product cycle. The Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) was established in 1981, as a private sector
entity with strong public sector support,/1 to fill the institutional gan in
the Korean capital market to provide venture capital funds. The Bank has
recently approved a loan to KTDC /2 which has as its main objective the
acceleration of advanced foreign technology imports and in-house research and
development (R&D) work through the provision of funds that are not available
from other financial institutions in Korea, due to the software-intensive
and/or risky nature of such projects. Further, KTDC will also help strengthen
the link between public research institutes and industry through its financing
of R&D projects sponsored by industry but carried out by the institutes. KTDC
will complement the activities of existing financial institutions, as well as
those of other industry support organizations. Korea Technology Advancement
Corporation (KTAC) was established as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), with the primary objec-
tive of commercializing production technologies (products and processes)
develoDed by KAIST. To this end, it was set up to prepare detailed feasi-
bility studies for selected projects with strong commercial potential based on
the results of KAIST's R&D efforts; it will also make equity investments in
such projects. IFC has recently approved an equity investment of W 500 mil-
lion (TUS8O.7 million equivalent) in KTAC /3. The Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) was established in 1979 as the primary public
sector agency in Korea to provide extension services to small and medium
enterprises (SMF) and to provide training of target groups of SMF. management
and labor in both on-the-job and off-the-job skills. In early 1981, the Korea
Production Technology Corporation (YOPTEC) was established, and it was
entrusted with the responsibility of administering a program of providing
in-plant guidance to upgrade technological capabilities of principally small
and medium machinery enterprises. At the time of KOPTEC's establishment, it
was felt that none of the institutions then existing in Korea had the capabi-
lity of administering such a program. However, as a result of the Govern-
ment's efforts to rationalize the provision of extension services to SMEs
(para. 1.23), in May 1982, the Government took steps to merge KOPTEC into
SMIPC. IJnder such a merger, SMIPC has taken over the functions and staff
of KOPTEC.
/1  Over 1981-84, Government equity contributions would amount to 40% of
KTDC's equity and 30% of its debt.
/2  Loan No. 2112-KO, approved March 25, 1)82.  IERD Report No. 3707-KO,
Korea: Technology Development Project, dated February 25, 182.
/3  Investment No. 628-KO, approved March 16, 1982.  IFC Staff Appraisal
Report No. IFC/T-394, and President's Report No. IFC/P-473, both dated
February 26, 1q82.



- 9 -
D. Policies Affecting the Machinery Industries
1.19      The Government has already implemented or has planned a number of
initiatives in policy areas of direct relevance to the machinery industries.
As indicated below, these initiatives, in the form of new or revised policies
or review of existing policies, constitute a sound basis for tackling the
major existing policy-related impediments to efficient development of these
industries.
(a) Financial Sector Policies
1.20      The broad policy initiatives already taken or planned in the finan-
cial sector were discussed in para. 1.06. The Government has initiated
broad measures aimed at reducing the magnitude and scope of NIF and other
subsidized lending programs. These measures should, over time, help to ensure
that small and medium enterprises (including those in the machinery indus-
tries) receive better access to financial resources. As previously noted, the
Bank is currently discussing with the Government its recent policy initiatives
and assessing their long-run implications. The issues will be treated more
specifically in the context of a proposed financial sector loan (para. 1.31).
1.21      In the area of export finance (i.e. finance for the marketing rather
than production of machinery), the demand for medium- and long-term suppliers'
credit /1 is expected to increase rapidly with the growth of machinery
exports.  The operations of the Korea Export Import Bank (Exim Bank), which
provides suppliers' credit for machinery exports at interest rates comparable
to those available to overseas machinery exporters, will be expanded consid-
erably with disbursements planned to increase from W 505 billion in 1981 to
W 1,470 billion in 1986. While most of Exim Bank's funds have been, and will
continue to be, made available for exporters of ships and industrial plant,
small and medium machinery producers will also have access to a growing volume
of these funds. Also, increased efforts will be made to attract cofinancing
from commercial banks to meet the gap between demand for these funds and Exim
Bank's resources.
/1  Importers of machinery (e.g. textile or agricultural machinery) generally
seek extended payment terms from the exporter. It is usual practice for
the exporter to seek covering finance from a domestic bank (suppliers'
credit). The Korea Export-Import Bank (Exim Bank) provides this facility.
In some situations Exim Bank lends directly to the overseas buyer (buyer's
credit), or extends a line of credit to a foreign bank for relending to
importers of Korean machinery (relending facility). However, suppliers'
credit constitutes the major source of lending for machinery exports by
Exim Bank at this time (more than 95%).



- 10 -
(b) Technology Development Policies
1.22      Substantially increased emphasis has been placed on technology
development during the last few years, and the Government has established
a number of new institutions in the field (para. 1.18). In order to promote
accelerated technological development, foreign direct investment has been
opened up across a much expanded range of industries and minimum investment
and local equity participation conditions have been relaxed. Further
liberalization is planned for the future. The import of foreign technology
under licence also has been substantially liberalized. In addition, tax and
financial incentives for research and development (R&D) and technology
upgrading have been increased and the provision of financial resources for
local R&D and its commercialization has been expanded through institutions
such as KTDC and KTAC. These recent efforts to promote foreign direct
investment and technology development, which are consistent with Korea's
changing comparative advantage, will take time to have a demonstrable
impact, especially in the current recessionary economic environment in
Korea. Nevertheless, they are expected to have a major positive effect on
the development of the machinery industries.
(c) Extension Services and Technical Assistance
1.23       The Government has taken significant steps to strengthen the
overall institutional framework for the provision of extension services,
technical assistance and training. The operations of the Small and Medium
Industries Promotion Corporation (SMIPC), the principal Government agency
responsible for extension services and training for SMIs, have expanded very
rapidly and will continue to do so. Also, in the context of a recent Bank
loan to Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB),/1 the Government agreed to
undertake a review of extension services in Korea with primary emphasis on the
need and scope for rationalization of the delivery system for these services
and the means for improving coordination among the many different agencies
providing such services. The review was carried out during November/December
1981 and, in January 1982, the Government took actions to rationalize
the provision of extension services by reducing the number of extension
service agencies dealing with SMI from 19 to 5. In May 1982, the Government
took further action to merge the Korean Production Technology Corporation
(KOPTEC) into SMIPC. The remaining three extension service agencies comprise
the three financial institutions, SMIB, Citizens National Bank (CNB), and
Korea Credit Guarantee Fund (KCGF), which provide limited technical assistance
to their clients in the course of project appraisal and supervision. Overall
responsibility for coordinating the provision of technical assistance now
clearly rests with SMIPC, which provides for a much more integrated approach
to industrial extension and training. The Government also created a working
group comprising responsible managers of these agencies charged with improving
/1 Loan No. 2004-KO, signed July 7, 1981. IBRD Report No. 3382-KO,
Korea: Small and Medium Industry Loan (SMIB IV), dated April 24, 1981.



- 11 -
coordination. The Government is presently preparing a more detailed action
program based on its recent review which will focus on, among other things,
establishing and monitoring performance targets for the four extension
agencies, and improving the services available from each agency. The contents
of the action program were reviewed during negotiations.
(d) Protection Policies
1.24      Machinery industries appear to have been given significant protec-
tion against imports. Although average tariff protection (net of tariff
exemptions) for these industries is only about 10%, the proportion of machin-
ery items on the restricted list (i.e., which can be imported only if no
similar locally-produced item is available) is the highest among manufacturing
industries (almost 50%, in 1981/82). There has been some liberalization of
restrictions on these items over the last three years in conjunction with
overall import liberalization and there is broad Government commitment to
continued liberalization over the Fifth Plan period. However, the recent
liberalization of machinery items has not been sufficient to reverse the
expansion of restrictions on imported machinery between 1971 and 1977. While
some degree of protection on infant industry grounds appears to be justified,
the potential available protection for these items can be very high and,
depending on the degree to which this protection is used, may contribute to
serious inefficiency of resource use.
1.25      As noted in para. 1.05, the Government is undertaking a detailed
review of overall industrial incentives and protection policies, which will
give priority to a review of the machinery industries, as part of the
agreements reached under the SAL. The proposed project for the small and
medium machinery industries has enabled the Bank to focus attention more
sharply on the specific issues relevant to the machinery industries and
thereby has provided the opportunity to specify the scope and coverage of
the review of protection for these industries in more detail. Specific
Terms of Reference (TORs) and staffing requirements for this review of
protection for the machinery industries have been agreed with the Govern-
ment. These TORs complement the broader TORs and staffing requirements
previously agreed with the Government under the SAL. Since this review is
part of the SAL-related studies it would be subject to the same timetable as
the overall SAL studies and would be financed by the Government. The final
report is to be completed by June 1983. Detailed action programs for further
import liberalization and tariff reform for the machinery industries would be
formulated and discussed with the Bank in the context of its ongoing program
of structural adjustment lending to Korea.
(e) Subcontracting Policies
1.26      Subcontracting is critical for efficient development of the machin-
ery industries since competitiveness of large end-product producers, and the
subsector as a whole depend heavily on the development of close working
relationships with suppliers of parts and components. Present Government



- 12 -
policies promote these relationships through the provision of financial and
technical assistance to subcontractors. Also, the tax system is based on
value added of various stages of production and thus is properly neutral
between large, vertically-integrated production versus subcontracting.
However, the Government has gone further through an interventionist approach
of selecting subcontractors eligible for assistance and applying pressure to
large assemblers to subcontract to them. This approach, which provides scope
for considerable administrative discretion in the selection process, is con-
trary to the overall policy thrust of the Fifth Plan which calls for reduced
Government intervention and greater reliance on the market in determining how
resource will be allocated. In conjunction with protection policies, dis-
cussed in paras. 1.24 and 1.25, the process of selecting eligible subcontrac-
tors provides a potentially high level of protection for these subcontractors
against all sources of competition, including other small and medium producers
not selected, large producers currently producing parts in-house and import-
ers. If subcontractors are shielded too effectively and/or for too long
against this competition, they may not mature into efficient, internationally-
competitive producers and will need continuing high, and perhaps growing,
levels of protection.
1.27      The Government has agreed to initiate a critical evaluation of the
impact of its subcontracting policies and procedures as well as a review of
alternative policies designed to assist in the development of efficient sub-
contracting arrangements. This would be undertaken as a specific component
of the SAL-related studies of industrial incentives and protection to be
funded by the Government. As with the study of protection for the machinery
industries, detailed TORs and staffing requirements of the subcontracting
review have been agreed with the Government. The final report is to be
completed by June 1983. On the basis of the review a detailed action program
for restructuring of subcontracting policies and procedures would be developed
and discussed with the Bank in the context of its ongoing program of
structural adjustment lending to Korea.
(f) Letter of Implementation of Selected Policies Pertaining to the
Machinery Industries
1.28      The Government has provided the Bank with a Letter of Development
Policy for the Machinery Industries, (Annex 2) which summarizes the various
policies and proposed courses of action in the areas discussed above (Annex 2)
to the extent they apply specifically to the machinery subsector. While the
reforms in the financial, trade, and investment policies are essential to
maintaining a competitive environment and the long-run efficient development
in the machinery sector; the explicit attention to improving operating
efficiency and the resolution of managerial and technological problems to be
provided by this project would demonstrate immediate positive results.



- 13 -
E. The Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy for Korea
1.29      In the past, the bank's industrial lending strategy has been aimed
mainly at the institutional strengthening of development finance companies
(DFCs) acting as intermediaries for channeling resources, including those of
the Bank, to industry./1  To date, the Bank has provided US$1,027.5 million
to the Korean industrial sector through direct relationships with four DFCs
in Korea, namely KLB, KDB, SMIB, and CNB. Eight Bank loans, aggregating
US$410 million have been made to KLB since 1968, and four Bank loans,
totalling US$352.5 million, have been made to KDB since 1975 for onlending
mostly to large-scale industries. Four Bank loans, totalling US$205 mil-
lion, have been made to SMIB since 1975 for onlending to small and medium
industries (SMI). Coverage of the very small end of the SMI sector has been
improved with a Bank loan of US$30 million to CNB in 1980, and a second loan
of US$30 million to CNB was approved in May 1982. Implementation of these
projects has been generally excellent. Project Completion Reports (PCRs)
for Loan Nos. 735-KO, 905-KO, and 1145-KO to KLB, for Loan No. 1095-KO to
KDB, and for Loan No. 1175-KO to SMIB concluded that in each case, the
Bank's twin objectives of transfer of resources and institution-building
vis-a-vis these DFCs have been satisfactorily achieved in the context of the
respective loans and that the Bank loans have aided in achieving the
objectives of the Government's industrial strategy. The Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPARs) for Loan Nos. 735-KO, 905-KO, and 1145-KO/2 and for
Loan No. 1095-KO/3 supported the PCRs' conclusions.
1.30      The major objectives of Bank lending through the DFCs in Korea
have been: (a) strengthening the institutional base for efficient
intermediation; (b) support for Government investment objecgives, including
promotion of balanced growth through regional development, employment
generation, export orientation, technological upgrading, and skill
development; and (c) resources transfer to provide the foreign exchange
resources needed for industrial development. These three objectives will
remain important in the Bank's industrial lending in the 1980s, but the
relative emphasis on these objectives will change significantly. The
institution-building process will be pursued further, as in the recent loan
to CNB,/4 although in the case of KDB, KLB, and SMIB, which are mature
/1 The two exceptions are the Korea Heavy Machinery Loan (Loan No. 1466 KO)
and the Electronics Development Project (Loan No. 1676-KO).
/2 Project Performance Audit Report No. 3419, dated April 30, 1981.
/3 Project Performance Audit Report No. 3430, dated April 13, 1981.
/4 Loan No. 2144-KO, approved May 13, 1982. IBRD Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3820a-KO, dated April 19, 1982.



- 14 -
DFCs, the Bank's institution-building role has been largely completed. The
significant maturity attained in the Korean financial sector, partly as a
result of the Bank's assistance in strengthening institutional capabilities,
coupled with the Government's willingness to address directly industrial and
financial issues, makes it possible for the Bank to shift its lending
objectives from institution-specific issues to broader sectoral issues.
1.31      The most recent Bank loans to KDB and KLB were predicated on a
broad-based macroeconomic approach. The two loans provided a vehicle for
discussing with the Korean Government the blueprint for the initiation of
reform of the financial sector aimed at liberalizing the operations of the
financial institutions. It is expected that the agreements will ultimately
improve the responsiveness of the financial system to the requirements of
Korean industry and will help improve investment efficiency. Together with
the impact of the reforms at the end of June 1982 (para. 1.06), these issues
will again be addressed in the context of a proposed financial sector loan,
currently planned for FY84. The Bank's dialogue with the Government
on financial sector issues has been proceeding in parallel with a greater
involvement in the formulation of a development strategy for the industrial
sector, which aims to bring about the structural adjustments necessitated by
the changing environment in which Korean industry operates. The Bank has
discussed with the Government the broad questions pertaining to industrial
investment strategy and incentives in industry and trade in the context of
the recently concluded Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (para. 1.05).
1.32      Structural adjustment lending and financial sector loans provide the
vehicles for a closer involvement by the Bank in assisting Korea to promote
financial and industrial sector development. The strategies and policy
measures adopted by the Government in both sectors at the macroeconomic level
are expected, over time, to gradually reduce distortions in factor prices and
policies at a subsector level. In the meantime, concerted action is required
in specific subsectors facing difficulties or in areas where new products and
technologies are being developed; in this way, the Bank's macro-based lending
strategy will be supplemented by a direct involvement in the restructuring or
development of specific subsectors.
1.33      In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
effort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronics
Technology Project,/1 approved in March 1979, provided the Korea Institute of
Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated facilities to enable
/1  Loan No. 1676-KO, approved March 22, 1979.  IBRD Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2322-KO, dated February 27, 1979.



- 15 -
it to undertake production-oriented development work, and financed an
R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the electronics indus-
try. The Sector Program on Higher Technical Education,/l approved in
February 1980, aimed at improving the quality of higher technical education
and increasing the supply of qualified engineers, technicians and managers.
Another Education Sector Loan for Science and Technology is currently under
preparation. Bank support for the proposed project, together with Bank
Group assistance for KTDC and KTAC (see para. 1.18), reflects the priority
which the Government and the Bank Group attach to the comprehensive effort
to improve the technological level of industry, to enable Korea to be
successful in diversifying its exports from traditional light industrial
products to more technology-intensive ones. The proposed project provides
technical assistance, training, and credit for the small and medium machinery
industries to significantly improve their production technology, and hence
their output, productivity, and export competitiveness. It is a substantial
part of the Bank's strategy for industrial financing in Korea.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
2.01      Project Background.  The project originated from sector work on the
machinery industries that was undertaken by the Bank in 1978 at the request of
the Government. The Bank's sector report /2 presented an evaluation of the
competitive capabilities of these industries and outlined a specific set of
actions, in the form of a project, that could be taken to improve them
(para. 1.16). As a result, in early 1981, the Government completed a study /3
to implement the proposed project. Two Bank preparation missions visited
Korea in March and May 1981 to assist the Government in defining the policy
studies needed for this project and to discuss with the Government the the
institutional arrangements to be followed in project implementation. The
project was appraised in January/February 1982. After the merger of KOPTEC
and SMIPC was announced in May 1982, a mission postappraised the project in
June 1982.
/1 Loan No. 1800-KO, approved February 19, 1980, IBRD Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2723a-KO, dated January 11, 1980.
/2 IBRD Report No. 2130-KO, op. cit.
/3 Republic of Korea, A Study on Small and Medium Machinery Industry
Development Project, February 1981.



- 16 -
2.02      Project Objectives.  The proposed project has the following major
objectives. Firstly, it provides a context for improving the sectoral
policies affecting small and medium industry (SMI) development in general and
machinery industries in particular (paras. 1.19-1.28). Secondly, the techni-
cal assistance and training included in the proposed project aim at upgrading
the technical competence and productivity of machinery industries (paras. 1.16
and 1.17). Thirdly, the proposed project provides the opportunity to build up
institutions capahle of providing technological assistance to industry (para.
1.18). Finally, the proposed project, through a credit component, provides
long-term resources to support the requirements for establishment, expansion,
modernization, and balancing of facilities by small and medium machinery
producers.
B. Project Description
2.03      The nroposed project is part of the Rank's new approach to indus-
trial lending in Korea (paras. 1.29-1.33), has a broad sectoral focus
concentrating on a number of the key constraints affecting small and medium
machinery industries, and in addition to supporting policy reform, comprises
three major components: (a) technical assistance; (b) training; and (c)
credit. SMIPC would implement the technical assistance and training component
of the project, while three DFCs, KLB, SMIB, and CNB, would implement the
credit component.
2.04      Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance component
would consist of providing foreign and domestic consultancy services to
assist small and medium machinery producers upgrade their skill levels and
improve their productivity at the plant-level by more effectively using
existing technology. SMIPC will be in charge of providing such technical
assistance. Initially, SMIPC has selected eight technical areas for special
attention. These were based on a detailed survey conducted in 1978 /1 and on
the Bank's sector report, and include: metal cutting, metal forming, forging,
casting, heat treatment, welding, surface treatment, and dyeing and finishing.
With the exception of the last two areas, which reflect the C.overnment's
intention to upgrade the quality of its textile exports, the other fields all
pertain to the machinery industries.  Subjects primarily concerned with
industrial engineering and manufacturing management, such as, plant layout,
machine tool selection, methods analysis (including workplace layout and tool
and die design), quality control, machine tool maintenance, and product
planning and development, have also been included. Due to the rapid growth
and development of Korean industries, the demand for expertise knowledgeable
in the above highly specialized fields has outstripped the domestically
available supply. It would take some time to develop a supply of such
expertise domestically to meet present and expected demand, particularly in
view of the rapid rates of growth anticipated in the future. The employment
of overseas technical experts is thus essential for the short-term
/1 Report of the Harron Rickard and McCone Co.: Metalworking Manufacturing
Engineering Mission to Korea, dated November 1978 (in 16 volumes).



- 17 -
effectiveness of the program. Local consultants will, however, be used in
those cases where the appropriate expertise is available in Korea. SMIPC's
longer term objective is to develop Korean skills that will substantially
decrease the need for overseas specialists. This will be achieved through an
explicit provision of staff counterparts for overseas specialists and for
providing for the training of domestic counterparts as an integral part of
every overseas specialist-s terms of reference (para. 3.04). The project
also provides for training of Koreans overseas to build up their technical
capabilities (para. 3.12). SMIPC, a member of Technonet Asia, an interna-
tional organization for industrial technology information and extension, also
provides technical information services to provide up-to-date technological
information (para. 3.07) and conducts research in order to improve business
activities and make policy decisions on the promotion of SMI.
2.05      Training Component.  The training component would consist of provid-
ing training courses on- and off-the-job for target groups in small and medium
machinery industries so that their skills and knowledge of production techno-
logy may be improved and their productivity enhanced. SMIPC would be in
charge of providing such training. Under the project, SMIPC will ensure that
technical assistance consultancy services and training are interrelated and
focussed on the need to improve productivity and quality of output in firms
selected for assistance. For this purpose, SMIPC will establish a small
training unit within its Extension Service Department II to coordinate trainr-
ing with the technical assistance being provided. The technical consultants,
in collaboration with the training staff, would identify specific training
needs associated with the technological/managerial improvements proposed for a
selected firm. SMIPC will provide training: (a) directly, using its own
specialized facilities at Banwohl or those of other agencies in Korea, to meet
general needs of a routine nature (e.g., industrial safety, quality control,
plant layout, and standard machine tool usage) and taking advantage of over-
seas experts it will retain to meet specialized needs; and (b) with other
institutions overseas when specialized training is not otherwise available in
Korea. Priority target groups for training would be: top managers, engineers,
middle managers, and foremen in selected small and medium machinery enter-
prises. Apart from technical and managerial skill upgrading, the target
groups would attend courses in job analysis techniques to promote a strategy
of onrthe-job training of lower level workers. About 3,300 managerial,
supervisory, and engineering staff are expected to be trained during the
project implementation period, 1983-86.
2.06      Credit Component.  The credit component would provide long-term
funds to small and medium machinery industries, as previously defined (foot-
notes 1 and 2 of para. 1.07). The Government has nominated three DFCs,
namely, SMIB, KLB and CNB, to channel the credit component for financing
investment requirements as well as for financing technical assistance
requirements in project preparation or in upgrading efficiency of operations.
Three DFCs have been chosen in order to satisfy the credit needs of small and
medium machinery producers of various sizes: KLB for larger medium-sized
producers (up to 300 employees); SMIB for small and medium-sized producers



- 18 -
(up to 300 employees); and CNB for small producers (up to 100 employees). The
three participating financial institutions have had experience with term
lending to small and medium industry, and have also had extensive experience
lending to the machinery sector (paras. 3.23, 3.26 and 3.29). The machinery
loan portfolio outstanding as of end 1981 of the three DFCs amounted to: W
428.3 billion for SMIB; W 136.5 billion for KLB: and W 54.6 billion for CNB.
In 1977-81, foreign currency loans to small and medium machinery industries by
the three DFCs amounted to: US$99.3 million for SMIB; US$57.2 million for
KLB; and US$6.1 million for CNB. The Bank has had extensive working
relationships with each of the three institutions in the context of previous
Bank loans. They have all been appraised by the Bank within the last three
years,/1 and the Bank is fully satisfied regarding their appraisal and
supervision capabilities. The appraisal mission examined the machinery
industry portfolios of the three institutions, and is satisfied that they are
fully competent to carry out their proposed functions under the proposed
project (paras. 3.22, 3.25 and 3.28).
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
2.07      Project Costs.  Total project costs amount to US$119.8 million
equivalent, and comprise costs for technical assistance and training, and
costs for the credit component, defined as the costs of subprojects which
would be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan. The total costs for the
technical assistance and training components, amount to US$17.4 million and
are summarized in Table 2.1 below. Of this total cost, US$11.0 million
represent the foreign currency costs, and were estimated by the mission based
on SMIPC's proposed production technology improvement program (PROTIP)
activities elaborated in its Operational Plan and projected financial
statements. January 1982 prices were used in base cost estimates. Taxes are
expected to be negligible. A physical contingency of 5% was made to allow for
some degree of uncertainty in the exact magnitude of technical assistance and
in the amounts of materials and equipment to be procured by SMIPC; and a 24%
allowance for price contingencies was calculated, based on estimated domestic
and international rates. Foreign consultancy costs are based on a per
manmonth cost of US$8,750 inclusive of fees, round-trip air tickets, and allow
for a mixture of long-term and short-term consultants. Domestic consultant
costs are based on estimated fees of US$1,750 per manmonth. Training costs
are based on the experience of other training agencies in Korea, and range
from W 2,650 per trainee hour, using Korean instructors, to W 7,760 per
trainee hour using expatriates. An amount of W 518 million (US$0.7 million)
/1 See IBRD SAR No. 3382-KO, The Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB IV),
dated April 24, 1981; IBRD SAR No. 3115-KO, The Korea Long-Term Credit
on Bank (KDFC VIII), dated November 20, 1980; and IBRD SAR No.3820-KO
The Citizens National Bank (CNB II) dated March 5, 1982.



- 19 -
Table 2.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local      Foreign                 Local    Foreign              as % of
currency  currency   Total    currency  currency  Total            total
Expenditure Category           - -W million --------    -------- US$ million -----    costs
Technical Assistance
Foreign consultants                 589    5,772    6,361           0.8       7.8         8.6       91
Domestic consultants                341         -       341         0.5       -           0.5        0
Tools and equipment                 583       370       953         0.8       0.5         1.3       39
Tech. inf". & studies               638       107       745         0.9       0.1         1.0       17
Subtotal                       2,151     6,249    8,400           3.0       8.4       11.4       73
Training                            1,056       518    1,574           1.4       0.7        2.1       33
Base Cost for Technical
Assistance and Training        3,207    6,767    9,974            4.4       9.1       13.5       67
(January 1982 prices)
Contingencies for TA and
Training /a
Physical                         160       332        492         0.2       0.5        0.7       66
Price                          1,280     1,129    2,409           1.8       1.4        3.2       45
Subtotal                       1,440     1,461    2,901           2.0       1.9        3.9       49
Total Cost for Technical
Assistance and Training          4,647    8,228   12,875            6.4      11.0       17.4        63
Credit Component /b
SMIB                            11,256   21,460   32,716           15.2      29.0       44.2        66
KLB                             13,898   14,800   28,698           18.8      20.0       38.8        52
CNB                              6,956    7,400   14,356            9.4      10.0       19.4        52
Total Credit Component        32,110   43,660   75,770           43.4      59.0      102.4       58
Total Project Costs Ic        36,757   51,888   88,645           49.8      70.0      119.8       58
/a  Physical contingencies are about 5% of base cost; domestic price contingencies are about 38%
and international price contingencies about 15% of the respective base cost plus physical
contingencies. Taxes are expected to be negligible.
/b  Defined as the costs of subprojects financed under the proposed Bank loan. Proportions
between local and foreign currency costs derived from sample data of the three DFCs.
/c  Bank loan assumed to be US$70 million.



- 20 -
was included in the estimate of foreign exchange costs for training, but this
is less than the total training that will be provided, as it is anticipated
that foreign consultants will also provide training as part of their jobs
(paras. 2.04 and 3.04). The costs for the credit component are estimated at
US$102.4 million. The costs for the credit component were based on the
projections of the DFCs prior to the financial measures of end June 1982 but
the Bank has been informed by the DFCs during negotiations that the
projections would remain substantially unchanged since Bank funds would
satisfy a relatively small proportion of total resources required by machinery
industries in Korea, and since there are regulations on the use of foreign
exchange for the import of foreign machinery and equipment.
2.08      Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would be
made to the Government and allocated as follows. The US$11 million to be
allocated to SMIPC would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs of SMIPC
in providing technical assistance and training in 1983-86. The balance of
US$59 million would be allocated to the three participating DFCs for the
credit component and would finance about 40% of estimated foreign exchange
requirements of machinery loan commitments in 1983-85, which have been
estimated at US$629.6 million equivalent with the foreign exchange component
at US$160.5 million equivalent for the three DFCs combined (Annex 3). The
US$59 million credit component would be allocated as follows: US$29 million
for SMIB, US$20 million for KLB, and US$10 million for CNB. Bank finance
for the proposed project, would be channeled to each of the three DFCs and
SMIPC through subsidiary loan agreements. The signing of subsidiary loan
agreements on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The relending terms are
described in paras. 4.06 to 4.08. The balance of the projected lending by the
three DFCs, for the machinery industry would be met from their own resources,
including other foreign borrowings.
2.09      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would provide
adequate financial support to SMIPC and its PROTIP activities. The Government
would provide SMIPC with funds needed to service its portion of the loan, and
the Government has given assurances that this funding requirement would not
be used to reduce the Government's contributions to SMIPC's project opera-
tions. Moreover, the Government agreed that it would review with SMIPC prior
to the completion of the preparation of the Government's annual budget
beginning with SMIPC's 1983 fiscal year, SMIPC's requirements for local
currency funds to meet SMIPC's overall objectives, including those objectives
under the proposed project, planned for the following fiscal year. On the
basis of each such review, the Government would exchange views with the Bank
on the level and timing of the Government's financial support to SMIPC for the
following year, taking into account SMIPC's financial prospects and work
program (para. 3.17).



- 21 -
ITT. PROnETCT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Technical Assistance and Training: The Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation (SMIPC)
3.n1      SMIPC was established by the Government in January 1979, under the
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Act, as an autonomous public corporation
to carry out a wide range of financial and technical assistance programs for
SMIs in Korea. SMTPC has responsibility for administering the Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF) and undertaking assistance programs
with the resources of the Fund. These programs include, among others, the
provision of: (i) financial assistance (through financial institutions,
primarily SMIB) and field services to support modernization plans of SMIs and
SMI cooperatives, including modernization of folk art and crafts manufacturers
and leasing of equipment; (ii) industrial extension services concerning man-
agement and technology to SMIs; (iii) training for SMI managerial and tech-
nical staff and training for managerial and technical extension workers; and
(iv) collection, analysis, and dissemination of business and technical infor-
mation for SMI. In 1981, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) extended to SMIPC a
TJSS13.0 million loan to support the development of SMIPC's Training Institute
in Banwohl. The ADE loan has been used to finance: (a) laboratory and
workshop equipment, accessories, and spares; audio-visual, electronic data
processing, and electronic computing equipment; (c) training reference and
information materials; (d) consultancy services; and (e) overseas staff
training. Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, and the first
phase of the construction of the Training Institute is expected to be comple-
ted in 1982. Training courses for entrepreneurs and extension workers will be
moved to Banwohl by end 182, and technical training courses, for which the
workshop complex at Banwohl is being built and equipped, will be moved to
Banwohl in early 1984.
3.02      SMIPC has achieved a respectable record in its assistance activities
since its establishment in 1979. In a study conducted in August 1981 by the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry regarding the effectiveness of SMIPC's
extension services, 962 enterprises were interviewed, out of more than
2,500 SMI enterprises which took advantage of SMIPC's services from January
1979 to July 31, 1981. Of the 958 which responded, an overwhelming 84%
reported that SMIPC's services have been effective in: improving managerial
control (267), improving product quality (23%), improving productivity (17%),
developing technology (10%), and reducing costs (9%). In May 1q82, the
Government took action to effectively merge KOPTEC into SMIPC, and in November
1982, the Machinery Industry Promotion Law was amended formally merging
the two institutions. SMIPC has taken over both the staff and functions of
KOPTEC by creating an Extension Service Department II within SMIPC to continue
KOPTEC's activities.



- 22 -
3.03      Objectives and Functions.  SMIPC's Policy Statement (Annex 4) sets
forth its role as the primary institution charged with promoting the efficient
development of small and medium industries in Korea, and thus, with
contributing to the balanced development of the national economy. The Policy
Statement sets forth SMIPC's main activities (para. 3.01) and identifies its
clientele as all SMI and SMI cooperatives. It sets out SMIPC's general
principles of operation, including its organization, management, and staffing,
its relationship with other agencies, and auditing procedures. SMIPC's
Strategy Statement for Production Technology Improvement (PROTIP) for the
Machinery Industries, 1983-86 (Annex 5), outlines SMIPC's objective of
concentrating its production technology improvement on the machinery
indtustries during 1q83-86 because of the latter's anticipated significant role
in export and growth targets of the Korean economy during the Fifth Plan. It
sets forth SMIPC's definition of machinery clientele, the priority areas of
assistance, criteria of selection of firms to be assisted, the method of
assistance, principles of cost recovery, and its intention to retain the
assistance of a consultancy firm to assist its PROTIP activities. These
statements were discussed during negotiations, and they were approved by
SMIPC's Board of Policy in November 1q82.  Tinder this project, SMIPC would
administer a comprehensive production technology improvement program (PROTIP),
primarily for the machinery industries, by: (a) identifying and rectifying
common problems in priority areas; (b) providing guidance and consultancy
service on plant level technology using domestic and foreign experts; (c)
gathering and disseminating information on production technology required to
break production bottlenecks; (d) conducting feasibility studies and providing
advice regarding technical feasibility to firms on the latters' investment
plans for new or expanded facilities and to financial institutions who need
assistance in making financing decisions; and (e) arranging for domestic and
overseas training to strengthen skilled manpower in the machinery sector and
coordinating training of key target groups with other agencies in Korea who
provide training. These functions are discussed in the following paragraphs
(paras. 3.04-3.07).
3.04      SMIPC, through its Extension Service Department II, has been contin-
uing KOPTEC's PROTIP activities by providing technical assistance through its
own staff and foreign and domestic consultants. To assist it in engaging
foreign consultants, it has engaged foreign consultant coordinators who have
been selected for their past experience and for the extensive contacts they
possess in the sector in their own countries. The success record of the
foreign coordinators in helping to recruit appropriate foreign expertise for
PROTIP activities has been mixed. As SMIPC's PROTIP operations grow in
numbers and complexity, it is essential that it should retain on a full-time
basis a consultancy firm to assist it to: (a) provide foreign experts with
detailed terms of reference for individual assignments; (b) monitor the
performance of individuial foreign experts; (c) train SMIPC staff in consul-
tancy skills; and (d) set up a training unit within SMIPC. Draft terms of
reference for such a consultancy firm have been discussed with SMIPC by the
mission. Such a consultancy firm would initially supplement, and subsequently
supplant, to a large extent, the use of foreign consultant coordinators.



- 23 -
Terms of reference for this consultancy firm have been discussed with SMIPC
and an understanding reached that the consultancy firm would be hired for an
initial period of two years, with possible extension for a third year, for a
total of 48 manr-months initially. SMIPC would hire a consultancy firm
satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, by
March 31, 1982.
3.05      The major areas of PROTIP activities selected by SMIPC have been
discussed in para. 2.04. In the first 15 months of operations since the
program's inception in January 1981, PROTIP as administered by KOPTEC had
assisted more than 100 selected firms in the machinery industries as follows:
71 in metal cutting (including metal forming and welding), 13 in forging, 16
in casting, 15 in surface treatment, and 4 in process control. In addition,
15 firms in the textile industry were assisted in dyeing and finishing
operations. SMIPC plans to continue the PROTIP program and assist about 660
firms in the period 1983-86 under the program, of which some 120 firms would
be assisted in more than one of the areas mentioned above. SMIPC is in the
process of formalizing a monitoring system to measure the benefits of its
technical assistance efforts. Such a monitoring system will measure quanti-
tatively the benefits (increased value added, productivity improvements,
savings, etc.) which result from the program s technical assistance efforts.
The consultancy firm to be retained by SMIPC to help it implement PROTIP
(para. 3.04) will further assist it to install and implement such a monitoring
system. SMIPC's intention to formalize such a monitoring system was confirmed
during negotiations.
3.06      To assist SMIPC focus on in situ training in the small and medium
machinery enterprises, the terms of reference of the consultancy firm would
include responsibilities for helping SMIPC set up the training unit and
develop curricula (para. 3.04). SMIPC has agreed to assign staff to
coordinate technical assistance with training.  The technical consultants, in
collaboration with SMIPC's training staff assigned to its Extension Service
Department II (para. 2.05), would identify specific training needs associated
with the technological and managerial improvements proposed for a selected
firm. The purpose is to promote an overall strategy for on-the-job training
throughout the small and medium machinery industry enterprises. Supervisory
staff would be trained to develop onr-the-job schemes for their subordinates on
the production floor, thus ensuring implementation of the technological
improvements proposed by the technical assistance consultants. On the basis
of the annual number of firms to be assisted as specified in SMIPC's plans, an
estimated 3,300 managerial, supervisory and engineering staff will benefit
from SMIPC's training programs in 1983-86 under PROTIP.
3.07      SMIPC has a system to provide technical infornation and a ready
reference service for firms when needed. It does this by locating and
acquiring know-how (technical knowledge) to solve plant level problems, and by
utilizing, on a current basis, information sources in the developed countries
such as technical journals, reports of technical societies, official publica-
tions and other scientific and technical papers. As a member organization of
Technonet Asia, SMIPC also has access to Technonet's information system.



- 24 -
3.08       Organization and Management.  The Board of Policy is the highest
decision-making body within SMIPC.  It is composed of a Chairman and a maximum
of 20 members. The Chairman is the President of SMIPC, who is appointed by
the President of the Republic upon recommendation of the Minister of Commerce
and Industry (MCI). Other Board members are appointed by the Minister of MCI
from among the officials of the Economic Planning Board, the Ministries of
Finance (MOF), Commerce and Industry (MCI), Construction (MOC), and Science
and Technology (MOST), and representatives of financial institutions, business
associations, and private sector representatives who are knowledgeable and
experienced in the field of SMI.  SMIPC is under the overall guidance of MCI
in matters pertaining to Government policy. The seven private sector (includ-
ing business associations and individual entrepreneurs) representatives and
two representatives from the academia on SMIPC's Board are sufficient to
represent private sector views in SMIPC's operations. Realizing the impor-
tance of adequately reflecting private sector views to enable it to be more
responsive to private sector needs, SMIPC has indicated that it would: (a)
increase private sector representation on its Board of Policy, especially from
SMI machinery producers, when vacancies occur;/1 (b) participate in a coord-
inating council comprising SMIPC and the three participating financial
institutions (para. 3.30); and (c) continue and strengthen its regular and
systematic fora with the private sector. SMIPC has confirmed these under-
standings.
3.09      The President of SMIPC has been delegated substantial autonomy over
all aspects of administration of SMIPC. SMIPC's President/Chairman is Dr.
Chong-Yul Yoo, who has advanced engineering degrees. His most recent post has
been as an economic advisor in the Office of the President. He is assisted by
four capable Directors of varied backgrounds and experience. Each of these
Directors is responsible for a group of departments performing SMIPC's main
activities: (a) Information and Administration; (b) Extension Services; (c)
Training; and (d) Modernization Projects. The Director of Administration
is responsible for planning, research, security and safety, public relations
and general administration. In addition, he is in charge of administering
local branch offices at Pusan and Kwangju, and overseas offices in Frankfurt,
Tokyo, and New York and PROTIP offices in the United Kingdom and Worcester,
Massachussetts. The Director of Extension Service Departments is responsible
for programming and implementation of industrial extension services for SMIs,
including PROTIP for the machinery industries envisioned under this project.
The Director of Projects is responsible for promoting modernization and
cooperative projects among SMIs. The Director for Training is the Dean of the
Small and Medium Industry Management and Technology Institute (The Training
Institute) and is responsible for programming and implementation of training
for SMI management and labor, for training and certifying extension workers,
SMI planners, and for administration of the Training Institute at Banwohl.
3.10      The two Directors of SMIPC of particular relevance to the Bank
project are: (a) the Dean of the Training Institute; and (b) the Director of
/1 Normal term of Board Directors is three years.



- 25 -
the Extension Service Departments. Both are competent and suitable. The
Dean of the Training Institute is Mr. Cho Il-Mook. Prior to joining SMIPC
as Director in 1979, Mr. Cho was Director of the Technical Qualification
Bureau, Korea Technical Qualification Agency. Mr. Cho has advanced university
degrees in chemical and industrial engineering. The Director of the Extension
Service Departments is Mr. Kim Kye-Uo. Mr. Kim has had 23 years of plant
operations and management experience in the private sector. Prior to his
present appointment, Mr. Kim was Director of KOPTEC's Technical Assistance
Department, in charge of PROTIP activities.
3.11      SMIPC's organizational structure (see Organization Chart) is
basically sound. The integration of PROTIP activities, formerly administered
by KOPTEC, into a unit in SMIPC called Extension Service Department II, which
has also absorbed KOPTEC's staff, to be responsible for the provision of
foreign consultancy services appears to be appropriate for the time being.
Presently, the Extension Service Departments are organized according to
sources of consultants, with Extension Service Department I focussing on
domestic consultants and Extension Service Department II on foreign
consultants. After the initial merger period, the Extension Service
Departments would be reorganized along subsectoral lines, with Extension
Service Department II focussing primarily on the machinery industries and
Extension Service Department I focussing on priority industries other than
machinery industries. Each Extension Service Department would then use
available sources of consultancy services, both foreign and domestic, to
provide managerial and technological extension services. SMIPC has agreed
that the reorganization of SMIPC's Extension Service Departments would be made
along subsectoral lines by March 31, 1982. To facilitate the administration
of the proposed loan and monitor the extent of Government budgetary support in
local currency to support the project, SMIPC has agreed to maintain separate
accounts in SMIPC for the Extension Service Department II.
3.12      Staff.  SMIPC is empowered to recruit and appoint its own staff.  As
of June 1982, SMIPC had a staff of 312 persons, including 6 executives, 58 at
manager and deputy manager levels, 66 at section chief and assistant chief
levels, and 182 lower grade staff, including support staff. Of the 219 pro-
fessional staff, 103 have backgrounds in economics, business administration,
and other social sciences while 116 have backgrounds in applied sciences, and
include 34 mechanical engineers, 17 chemical engineers, 22 metallurgists, 6
electrical engineers, 4 electronic engineers, 9 textile engineers, 10 civil
and construction engineers, and 16 staff with degrees in natural and physical
sciences. Of the 98 staff in the Training Institute, 25 are permanent
teaching staff, 43 are professional staff involved in administration, and 30
are support staff, which include workshop operators and laboratory techni-
cians. In addition, there are 45 part-time teaching staff attached to the
Training Institute. Of the 32 staff in the Extension Service Department II,
which will be in charge of PROTIP activities, 20 are engineers, each repre-
senting one or two technical fields assisted by PROTIP, e.g. 4 in metal
cutting, 3 in metal forming, 2 in casting, and 1 each in forging, heat treat-
ment, surface treatment, welding, dyeing and finishing, industrial engineer-
ing, production control, and numerical control. These engineers have all had



- 26 -
substantial working experience and held senior engineering positions in
Government institutions or private industry prior to joining PROTIP activi-
ties. The staff presently involved in extension services, particularly those
involved in PROTIP activities, are appropriately qualified to handle the
existing volume of technical assistance operations. SMTPC intends to expand
the staff in its Extension Service Departments as necessary to cope with
future workload. To improve its capabilities, particularly those involved in
PROTIP activities, SMIPC has worked out a comprehensive five-year overseas
training program for periods ranging from 2 to 6 months in order to upgrade
its staff expertise in their respective professional fields. Highest priority
will be assigned to those staff involved with providing extension services,
especially those involved in PROTIP activities. In addition, training
programs have been designed to improve nontechnical skills of SMIPC staff,
such as foreign language proficiency, and management consultancy skills.
SMIPC has confirmed its staffing plans and staff training programs to ensure
healthy institutional growth and proper implementation of the project.
3.13      SMIPC's pay scales are determined by its Board.  They are compar-
able to those of Government research institutes and Government banks, and
are substantially higher than most Government agencies. The salaries and
benefits are appropriate for the type of staff needed by SMIPC to effec-
tively provide its services. SMIPC has confirmed that it would maintain, and
periodically review, its salary and benefit structure so that these would be
sufficient to attract and retain high quality staff to provide the type of
services needed by SMIs.
3.14      Financial Projections.  SMIPC's projected financial statements are
presented in Annex 6, Tables 1 to 3, and are summarized briefly in the follow-
ing paragraphs. The projected income statements are presented as Table 3.1
below. SMIPC's main income source stems from revenues generated from finan-
cing activities using the proceeds of the SMIPF, of which SMIPC is the imple-
menting agency. Financing activities are carried out by handling banks on
SMIPC's account. Another major source of income is SMIPC's leasing program.
Under this program, SMIPC makes available to small and medium industries on an
installment rental basis and in cases of replacement or renovation the
following: basic equipment to increase productivity; testing equipment to
improve quality control; and common facilities for joint use by SMIs.  SMIPC's
revenues are projected to grow rapidly from W 9.4 billion in 1983 to W 22.5
billion in 1986 and W 52.3 billion in 1991, amounting to W 268.5 billion over
the period 1983-1991. Of these revenues, direct fees from PROTIP activities
are expected to increase from a projected W 0.4 billion in 1q83 to W 0.9
billion in 1991, or a total W 6.6 billion over the period 1983-1991.
3.15      Revenues from extension services are limited.  SMIPC has been pro-
viding extension services and training either free of charge or at nominal
rates in accordance with Government policy to promote and accelerate the
development of small and medium industries in Korea. However, as a result of
this project, SMIPC and the Government have agreed to initiate a program
which would ensure a steadily increasing cost recovery for its services. It



- 27 -
Table 3.1:  SMIPC:  SUMMARY OF PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS 1982-91
(W billion )
1982   1983   1984 1985  1986  1987  1988  1989    1990  1991
budgeted --------------------- projected ------------------
Income
Revenues from financing                5.6   6.6    7.0  10.3  13.4  16.5  19.8  23.2   26.3  29.1
Revenues from cooperatives
project                             5.6   0.4    0.4   0.9   0.9   1.1   1.0   0.9    0.8   0.8
Revenues from leasing
project                             0.6   1.5    2.8   4.4   6.1   8.3  11.0  12.5   15.8  17.1
Revenues from extension
services and PROTIP                 0.1   0.4    0.8   0.8   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.8    0.8   0.9
Other revenues                         0.3   0.5    0.9   1.5   1.5   2.9   3.3   3.7    4.4   4.4
Total inc.ome                 12.2   9.4   11.9  17.9  22.5  29.5  35.9  41.1   48.1  52.3
Expenses
Financing                             0.1   0.1    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3
Cooperative projects                   5.7     -       -   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.7   0.7    0.7   0.7
Training                               1.5   1.8    2.0   2.0   2.0   2.2   2.4   2.6    2.9   3.0
Extension services and
PROTIP                              4.2   5.9    7.5   8.5   9.0  10.0  10.8  11.6   11.4  11.4
Technical and regional
development                         0.2   0.4    0.8   1.1   1.4   1.7   2.0   2.3    2.6   2.7
Information                           0.9   0.6    0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2    1.3   1.5
Branches and overseas
offices                             0.5   0.5    0.6   1.0   1.1   1.4   1.6   1.6    1.7   1.8
Leasing Project costs                 0.8   1.9    3.4   4.7   6.6   8.1   9.4  10.8   12.1  13.0
Salaries                              3.0   3.7    4.5   4.9   5.2   5.7   6.2   6.7    7.3   7.8
Overhead                               1.3   1.1    1.3   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.8    1.9   2.0
Other                                  0.3   1.1    1.3   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.4   1.3    1.0   0.9
Total expenses                18.5  17.1   22.3  26.5  29.9  33.9  37.5  40.9   43.2  45.1
Net Income (Loss)                      (6.3) (7.7) (10.4) (8.6) (7.4) (4.4) (1.6)   0.2    4.9   7.2



- 28 -
is SMIPC-s long-term goal to charge full direct costs in its PROTIP activities
(see SMIPC-s Strategy Statement, Annex 5). However, SMIPC is a fairly new
institution and PROTIP is a new concept in Korea, and at present, Korean SMIs
are not accustomed to paying for technical assistance. Thus, the principle of
cost recovery needs to be introduced gradually. SMIPC-s cost recovery
strategy for its PROTIP activities is to gradually increase its charges and to
differentiate the charges according to the nature of the client and whether it
is large or small, a repeat customer or not, etc. For extension services
provided by domestic consultants, SMIPC-s plan is to provide such services
free of charge for the years 1983-86, and then to charge 107. of direct costs
from 1987 onward. For extension services provided by foreign experts, and for
extension services under PROTIP, SMIPC-s proposal is to charge an average of
30% of direct costs by 1986, and to increase the percentage of direct cost
recovery by 10% each year until it reaches 80% by end of 1991. For training,
SMIPC plans to charge 70% of direct costs during 1983-86, and to increase it
to 80% of direct costs during 1987-91. For SMI staff and onr-the-job training,
SMIPC plans to charge 30% during 1983-86, and 50% in 1986 and thereafter.
This gradualist approach to cost recovery is reasonable in the early stages of
SMIPC's development; it is also consistent with the promotional nature of
SMIPC-s extension services and training activities./I SMIPC has confirmed its
proposals for direct cost recovery for its PROTIP activities (Annex 6, Table
4), and these are reflected in the loan documents.
3.16      The major expense items in SMIPC's income statement projections stem
from extension services, training, and equipment leasing. Extension services
expenses are high due to the high costs of foreign consultant services, which
are not presently available in Korea. Leasing operations are expected to
break even by 1987. Salaries and overheads constitute around 8-9% of total
expenses, which is reasonable. SMIPC-s expenses have been projected to grow
from W 17.1 billion in 1983 to W 29.9 billion in 1986, and W 45.1 billion in
1991. Of these expenses, direct costs for PROTIP technical assistance are
expected to be W 2.6 billion in 1983, increasing to W 2.7 billion in 1985, and
gradually decrease to W 1.3 billion in 1991, totalling W 19.2 billion over
1983-1991. Training in conjunction with PROTIP is expected to cost about
W 189 million in 1983, declining to W 156 million in 1991 as PROTIP-type
training is increasingly integrated into SMIPC's regular training activities.
Training under PROTIP is expected to total W 1.4 billion over 1983-1991.
SMIPC has projected losses through 1988. However, after reaching a W 10.4
billion loss in 1984, the losses are projected to gradually decline to W 1.6
billion in 1988. SMIPC will start realizing a modest W 0.2 million income in
1989, and its income is expected to increase to W 7.2 million in 1991.
/1 This is in line with gradualist approach to cost recovery or totally
free industrial extension services currently practiced in a number of
developed countries.



- 29 -
3.17      SMIPC-s projected summary funds flow  statements are presented in
Table 3.2. The major source of SMIPC-s funds is Government budgetary conr-
tributions, part of which will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan. These budgetary resources are necessary for SMIPC's operations
since SMIPC s revenues do not match its expenses in the initial years of
operation. Government contributions are forecast to increase from W 24.9 bil-
lion in 1982 (W 2.9 billion has been allocated for PROTIP activities) to
W 58.8 billion in 1987, and decline gradually to W 42.6 billion in 1991. The
gradual decline in Government contributions coincides with increasing
operating revenues, which are expected to surpass in magnitude the amounts of
Government allocations in 1990. The amounts budgeted for 1982 have been
approved, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry has requested an amount of
W 200 billion during the Fifth Plan period (1982-86) to support small and
medium industry development. Over the projection period until 1991, W 500
billion has been allocated for small and medium industry development and in
addition, W 26.3 billion has been allocated for PROTIP activities. The
Government has undertaken to ensure that SMIPC would be given adequate finan-
cial support to carry out its overall objectives and that SMIPC, in turn,
would devote sufficient resources (including domestic currency) to enable the
realization of the objectives of the proposed project during the project
implementation period. The Government has confirmed its intention to provide
SMIPC with adequate resources to service its debt under the proposed project
and for SMIPC-s overall activities..
3.18.     On the basis of SMIPCOs projected operations and the levels of
Government's proposed support, balance sheets for SMIPC have been constructed.
Total assets are expected to grow from W 91.9 billion in 1982 to W 518.9 bil-
lion in 1991. These increases in assets are funded primarily from Government
contributions. Cumulative Government contributions to SMIPC, inclusive of
W 26.3 billion for PROTIP activities, will total W 526.3 billion by the end of
1991. The projected balance sheets are shown in Annex 6, Table 3.
3.19      Accounting and Audit.  SMIPC carries out its operations with due
consideration to financial prudence and maintains its accounting records to
reflect its operations and affairs in accordance with sound accounting
principles and standards, which are satisfactory to the Bank. As SMIPC is
responsible for administering and operating the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Fund (SMIPF) and for proper usage of contributions from the private
sector, SMIPC maintains an SMIPF Account and a General Account. With regard
to SMIPF, SMIPC is required under the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Act
to prepare an administrative and operational plan and submit it to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry for approval at least two months before the
beginning of each financial year. SMIPC also has to submit its annual budget
to the Minister of Commerce and Industry for approval after clearance by its
own Board of Policy.
3.20      The Auditor of SMIPC is appointed by the Minister of Commerce and
Industry. A set of SMIPC's audited financial statements has to be submitted
to the Minister not later than three months after the close of every financial



- 30 -
Table 3.2: SMIPC: SUMMARY PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS, 1982-91
(W billion)
1982   1983  1984  1985  1986   1987   1988    1989  1990    1991
budgeted --------------- projected ---------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Government contributions    24.9  37.2  39.0  51.3  58.3   58.8   58.4   53.0   47.8   42.6
Borrowings                      3.6   6.4   4.8   2.7   -         -       -       -         -      -
Revolving Fund                  2.5  11.4  20.1   8.2  13.6   21.4   29.2   38.1   44.9   52.8
Operating Revenues              8.2   8.9  11.4  16.9  21.5   28.0   34.4   39.6   46.1   50.3
Non-operating Revenues          0.2   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0    1.5    1.5    1.6    2.0    2.0
Depreciation                    0.8   1.7   1.0   2.0   1.1    1.5    1.3    1.3    1.2    0.8
Retirement allowances
and others/a                 15.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.9
Total Sources
of Funds               55.5  66.4  77.2  82.6  96.0  111.8  125.5  134.3  142.8  149.4
Uses of Funds
Modernization projects         28.2  37.4  44.6  47.3  55.4   64.4   71.6   74.7   77.4   81.1
Training and Training
Institute                   11.4   7.6   4.1   1.6   1.6    1.9    2.1    2.3    2.6    2.8
Extension Services
and PROTIP                    4.3   6.2   8.0   9.3  10.7   11.6   12.3   13.0   12.7   12.6
Technical development
and regional projects        -      0.1   2.8   3.6   6.6    9.5   12.4   15.3   18.2   19.2
Subcontracting support          -     4.3   5.0   5.1   5.1    6.1    7.1    8.1    9.1   10.1
Folkcraft and rural
industry                     0.8   1.7   3.3   3.8   4.9    5.4    5.9    6.5    7.0    7.6
Information                     0.9   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.5
Administration                  5.0   5.4   6.3   7.3   7.7    8.7    9.4   10.2   11.1   11.9
Debt service and others         2.4   1.1   1.1   1.4   1.6    1.3    1.9    1.3    1.8    1.3
Total Uses
of Funds               53.0  64.4  75.9  80.2  94.5  109.9  123.8  132.6  141.2  148.1
Surplus/(Deficit)               2.5   2.0   1.3   2.4   1.5    1.9    1.7    1.7    1.6    1.3
Cumulative Surplus/
(Deficit)                    2.5   4.5   5.8   8.2   9.7   11.6   13.3   15.0   16.6   17.9
/a  In 1982, the figure includes cash carry over of W15.2 billion from 1981.



- 31 -
year. The Auditor, assisted by three Auditing Officers, undertakes auditing
of SMIPC's financial accounts and operations and reports to the Minister
through the President of SMIPC. According to the Law of the Board of Audit
and Inspection in 1963, SMIPC's financial statements are also externally
audited by the Board of Audit and Inspection. For its ADB project, SMIPC has
agreed to employ independent auditors to audit a separate ADB project account
and SMIPC's overall financial statements. SMIPC has similarly agreed to
maintain a separate account for this project and to employ independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. SMPIC will submit to the Bank certified
copies of SMIPC's audited statements and auditor's reports relating to the
project, as well as SMIPC as a whole, in a format acceptable to the Bank, not
later than five months after the close of every fiscal year.
B. Credit Component: The Participating Financial Institutions
3.21      The Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB).  SMIB is a Government-
owned banking institution, incorporated under the Small and Medium Industry
Bank Act of 1961. It is one of the three DFCs which the Government has
designated as channels for the credit component of the project (para. 2.06).
In addition to term lending and the extension of technical assistance, SMIB
engages in a wide range of commercial banking activities such as the mobili-
zation of deposits, issue of letters of credit, provision of overdraft
facilities, discount of trade bills as well as other short-term lending
operations for working capital purposes.  The SMIB Act restricts SMIB to the
financing of small and medium enterprises. According to the Presidential
Decree enforcing the Act, eligible borrowers are defined, since 1976, as
enterprises with assets not in excess of W 500 million or with less than 300
employees./l
3.22      The Bank has extended four loans to SMIB and considers it a sound
institution and its staff fully competent to carry out its responsibilities
under the proposed loan (para. 2.06). Basic data for SMIB regarding its
financing structure and performance and its performance under previous Bank
loans are shown in Annex 7, Table 1.
3.23      SMIB's lending to projects in the machinery sector (5,427 loans
amounting to W 428.3 billion) accounted for 14% by number and 29% by amount of
its total outstanding loan portfolio as of December 31, 1981. On the basis of
a limited sample of subprojects, foreign and domestic currency requirements
accounted for 64% and 36%, respectively, of total fixed investment cost.
Working capital requirements absorbed around 19% of total project cost. About
65% of total project costs were financed from SMIB resources, while the owners
contributed the remainder in the form of equity and internal cash generation.
According to the sample, most of the subprojects produced almost exclusively
for the domestic market as indicated by the sample's export share of 8% of
/1 The SMI Promotion Law enacted in 1979 raised the employment ceiling to
500 (with no asset limit) for specific industries in the manufacturing
sector such as automobile and bicycle parts, hand tools, and watches.



- 32 -
total sales.  The subproiects' incremental jobs were generated at a cost of
about TTSA25,nOO each. Pinancial rates of return (FRR) ranged from 19% to 43%
with a weighted average of 28%, and economic rates of return (ERR) ranged from
26% to 657 with a weighted average of 457.
3.24      The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB).  KLB was established in 1967
as the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) with the active support of
the World Bank Group as a joint venture between domestic and foreign investors
including IFC. In 1977, in seeking to improve its financial services to meet
the requirements of the financial sector, KDFC initiated an internal study of
optional strategies. As a result of this study, KLB was converted into a
long-term credit bank, the first of its kind under the Long-Term Credit Bank
Law enacted in December 1979. Its Charter, adopted on June 2, 1980,
authorizes it to engage in business activities such as debenture issues both
in Korea and abroad, acceptance of deposits and installment savings (for its
customers only), discount and rediscount at BOK of trade bills, working
capital financing, term lending for investment purposes, securities business,
and domestic and foreign exchange transactions.
3.25      The Government has nominated KLB as one of the three channels for
the credit component of the proposed loan. The Bank has extended eight loans
to KLB, and considers it a sound institution and its staff fully competent to
carry out its responsibilities under the proposed loan (para. 2.06).
Basic data for KLR are attached in Annex 7, Table 2.
3.26      RlB's overall lending to projects (270 loans amounting to W 136.5
billion) in the machinery sector, irrespective of size, accounted for 217 by
number and 17.87 by amount of its total outstanding loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1981. On the basis of a sample of SMI projects, RLB has financed
an average of 4Q.87 of total project cost, while 13.1% was financed from the
owners' equity resources. The projects in the sample had an incremental cost
per job of around 1JSS51,400. The FRR ranged from 22% to 55% with a weighted
average of 23%, whereas the ERR ranged from 14% to 49%, with a weighted
average of 26%.
3.27      The Citizens National Bank (CNB).  CNB was incorporated in December
1962 under the Citizens National Bank Act as a broad-based financial institu-
tion which caters to the financial needs of the general populace and small
businesses and attracts small household savings as part of a national effort
to mobilize domestic capital for economic development. In accordance with its
charter, CNB finances small-scale businesses with less than 100 employees. In
addition to the maximum exposure limits in any single enterprise of 25% of its
equity, CNB's domestic currency lending to any single enterprise is limited
to: W 250 million for equipment loans; W 150 million for working capital
loans; and W 50 million for guarantees (W 500 million for guarantees involving
foreign exchange transactions). CNB's Development Strategy for 1982-86
focussed on the promotion of small and labor-intensive projects, geographic
dispersal, raising of long-term domestic currency resources, increasing term



- 33 -
lending to SMI, and diversifying its sources of long-term foreign currency
resources, and strengthening of its research activities in the area of sector
and market studies.
3.28      CNB has been nominated by the Government to be one of the three
channels for the credit component of the proposed loan. The Bank has extended
two loans to CNB. The Bank considers CNB a sound institution and its staff
fully competent to carry out its responsibilities under the proposed loan
(para. 2.06). Basic data for CNB are attached in Annex 7, Table 3.
3.29      CNB's lending to projects in the machinery sector (4,761 loans
amounting to W 54.6 billion) accounted for 8.6% and 10.8% by number and amount
of CNB's total business loan portfolio (including working capital loans) as of
December 31, 1981. On the basis of a limited sample of subprojects, CNB has
financed an average of 49.7% of total project costs, while shareholders
contributed 14.9% and 4.3% in the form of equity and shareholders' loans
respectively. The average cost per incremental job amounted to about
US$15,500. Based on a limited sample of machinery subprojects, the FRR of
these subprojects ranged from 22% to 27% with a weighted average of 25% and
the ERR ranged from 33% to 46%, with a weighted average of 42%.
3.30      Relationship between Technical Assistance and Credit Components.
While successful small and medium machinery enterprises requiring only funds
would be eligible for loans under the credit component of the project, the
greatest impact would be achieved in the case where subloan recipients of the
three DFCs are also the technical assistance clients of SMIPC's PROTIP
activities. As SMIPC's PROTIP activities are relatively new, and SMIPC
may need time to build up its clientele, the initial overlap between SMIPC's
clients and those of the financial institutions may be small; but it is
expected that such an overlap will increase significantly toward the end of
project implementation. SMIPC and the DFCs, together with appropriate
representatives from the Ministries of Finance and of Commerce and Industry,
will form a Coordinating Council which will periodically review the implemen-
tation of the project and report to the Bank annually commencing December 1983
regarding the extent and impact of coordination of SMIPC and the DFCs in the
provision of technical assistance and credit. This understanding with the
Government has been confirmed.
IV. THE PROPORED BANK LOAN
A. Benefits and Risks
4.01      Expected Benefits.  This project is expected to generate substan-
tial economic and institution-building benefits. On the macroeconomic
aspects, the major immediate benefits of the project will be quality and
productivity improvements, improving export performance and increasing



- 34 -
import substitution by the machinery industries. As noted in para. 1.10,
rapid growth of the machinery industries is central to the growth and export
objectives of the Fifth Five-Year Plan.
4.02       On the enterprise level, it is anticipated that about 660 individ-
vidual enterprises would be assisted by SMIPC in 1983-86. In addition, about
3,300 managers, engineers, and supervisors would be trained in SMIPC's PROTIP
activities in manufacturing processes and management techniques (para. 3.06).
Moreover an additional 100-150 subprojects, some of which would also be
recipients of technical assistance, would receive financial assistance from
the participating financial institutions to increase economically and finan-
cially sound investments in the machinery sector. It is expected that SMIPC's
PROTIP activities would result in substantial cost savings and improvements in
productivity of the clients it assists. It is also expected that the subpro-
jects would be substantially better prepared with SMIPC's PROTIP assistance
during appraisal, and that the DFCs' portfolios of machinery projects would
improve due to SMIPC's supervision of technical matters. A limited sample of
the DFCs' machinery subprojects showed that the FRRs ranged from 19% to 55%,
with an average of 25%, whereas the ERRs ranged from 14% to 65%, with an
average of 33%. With the coordination that will be effected in the provision
of financial and technical assistance (para. 3.30), the financial and economic
returns of subprojects to be financed under the proposed project are expected
to be very high. In addition, a number of subprojects, currently not having
access to financial resources because of the lack of technical expertise
within the financial institutions, would gain access to necessary financing.
4.03       Aside from the direct benefits mentioned above, the proposed project
is expected to generate a number of external economies, since improvements in
the productivity and product quality of the machinery industries would
directly benefit other industries in the same subsector and, perhaps more
importantly, would improve conditions of supply to other major sectors (para.
1.09). For example, improvements in foundry castings or components for
vehicles in which they are incorporated. The lack of reliable matching of
parts supplied by different subcontractors and the need to refinish or further
machine the parts so that they will work in a complex system have been major
sources of poor performance and increased costs of end-items. It is the
strength of the "linkages," both backward (and horizontally) to suppliers of
parts and components, and forward to buyers in other sectors, that generate
the externalities that are inherent in this project. These cannot be quanti-
fied at this time, but as the benefits accrue, the evidence of the effects on
suppliers and consumers can be organized. This will be done as part of
SMIPC's task (para. 3.05), in order to evaluate the total effect of the
project, and by Bank supervision missions. A priori, the qualitative evidence
on the benefits to other sectors and the economy from the externalities that
will result from this project is extensive.
4.04       Finally, it is expected that one of the major benefits of the
project would be the build-up of SMIPC as an institution capable of compre-
hensive extension services and training to small and medium industries, and
in particular, of providing production technology-type technical assistance



- 35 -
and for promoting the development of appropriate technology in Korea. More-
over, with the strategy of on-the-job training that would be fostered by the
project, it is anticipated that improved technologies would be more rapidly
disseminated to, and absorbed at, the plant level than heretofore (para.
2.04).  With the expected success of this project, a group of production
technology consultants would be developed domestically to carry on the
functions which must now be performed by expatriate consultants (para. 3.04).
4.05      Risks.  The risks in this project are two-fold:  (a) institutional
risks; and (b) disbursement risks. With respect to institutional factors, the
major risk is that SMIPC's PROTIP activities would not prove effective for the
provision of technical assistance to the machinery industries in Korea and/or
would not be able to coordinate its technical assistance and training
activities with the provision of credit. Such a development would, however,
be unlikely since SMIPC has already appointed a capable Director in charge of
Extension Services Departments I and II (para. 3.10), and would have seriously
embarked on a program to improve its institutional strength prior to and
during project implementation by:  (a) increasing the number of private sector
representatives on its Board (para. 3.08); (b) appointing a consultancy finm
to assist it in managing foreign consultants and developing training curricula
(para. 3.04); (c) formulating a comprehensive staffing plan and training
program for its staff (para. 3.12); (d) reviewing its compensation schemes
periodically to ensure that they are adequate to attract and retain high
quality staff (para. 3.13); and (e) cooperating in the arrangements to
promote coordination with the participating DFCs (para. 3.30).  The recent
Government financial measures to stimulate investment has created some
divergence between domestic and foreign interest rates, which may lead to a
greater demand for domestically produced equipment, and depending on
substitutability of foreign and domestic machinery and equipment, the rate of
disbursements of the credit component, which is primarily for direct and
indirect foreign expenditures of machinery and equipment, may be adversely
affected by these measures.  However, these disbursement risks are mitigated
by the fact that the Government has instituted rules which require that only
foreign exchange loans can be used to finance importation of foreign equipment
and the demand of the machinery industry for imported machinery is likely to
far exceed the credit financing provided for under the proposed loan.
Moreover, the differential in domestic and foreign interest rates is expected
to be temporary.  The Bank is continuing its review of the recent financial
measures in the context of overall dialogue in conjunction with the proposed
financial sector loan (paras. 1.06 and 1.31).  On balance, the benefits of
the project are likely to be substantial and the risks involved manageable.
B. Features of the Proposed Loan
4.06      Relending Arrangements.  As described earlier, the proposed Bank
loan would be made to the Government of Korea as Borrower. The Government
would relend the proceeds of the loan to SMIPC and the three DFCs on the



- 36 -
same terms as the Bank loan under terms of subsidiary loan agreements satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 2.08). SMIPC would be allocated US$11 million for
the technical assistance and training components, and the US$59 million credit
component would be allocated as follows: US$29 million to SMIB; US$20 million
to KLB; and US$10 million to CNB. SMIPC would bear the foreign exchange and
variable interest risks of the technical assistance and training components,
while the subborrowers of the DFCs would bear the foreign exchange and
variable interest risks for the credit component.
4.07      Amortization Schedule.  The technical assistance component of the
proposed loan would have a fixed amortization schedule and would be repaid
by SMIPC over a 14-year period including 3 years grace. The credit component
would have an adjustable composite amortization schedule reflecting the
aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans made by the DFCs. Individual
subloans would have a maximum maturity of 12 years, including a reasonable
grace period.
4.08       Relending Rate.  For the credit component, the participating DFCs
intend to lend the proceeds of the proposed loan at a variable interest rate
of 2% above its own effective borrowing cost including the cost associated
with the front-end fee. This is in line with the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
guidelines and the general practice of the DFCs in Korea of relending the
proceeds of foreign exchange borrowings from international sources. Based on
the Bank's current lending rate of 11.43% p.a. a front end fee of 1.5%, and
the 2% spread, the nominal onlending rate to subborrowers would be around
13.6% p.a. In addition, subborrowers would be charged a commitment fee of
0.75 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion of the subloan committed to them.
The 2% interest spread is adequate to cover the cost incurred by the DFC in
processing subloan applications and supervising subprojects.
4.09      The effective cost of Bank funds, together with effective foreign
exchange and variable interest risks, are expected to be positive in real
terms, compared with projected international inflation rates and competitive
with Korea's other sources of foreign borrowing. However, Bank interest rates
are higher than domestic interest rates, which have been lowered to 10% as of
end June 1982. These domestic interest rates are nevertheless positive as
compared with the actual domestic inflation rates to date for 1982, which is
expected to be about 7% during all of 1982, and with projected domestic
inflation rates of 7%-8% during 1983-1985. The Government has furthermore
indicated that it would keep interest rates under review, in order to maintain
them at positive levels, and that it expects the differentials between
domestic and foreign interest rate levels to be temporary.
4.10      Eligibility Criteria.  The proposed loan is aimed at increasing
productivity and efficiency of the machinery industries. For purposes of the
proposed loan, machinery industries are those manufacturing activities which



- 37 -
fall under the International Standard Industrial Classification Category 38,
i.e., the "manufacture of fabricated metal products, machinery and equip-
ment."/l Small and medium industries would be defined in terms of maximum
size of employment. The official definition of 300 employees would be
retained except for activities designated by the Government under the Small
and Medium Industry Promotion Law for which the limit has been raised to 500
employees (i.e., automobile and bicycle parts, electronics, screws, hand tools
and implements, etc.), and will be applicable to the clients serviced by
SMIPC. For CNB, the maximum size of employees of its subborrowers will be
100; for SMIB and KLB, the maximum size of employees of their subborrowers
will be 300, except for those specific activities mentioned above.
4.11      Subloan Ceilings.  Under the credit component, subloan ceilings
for the three DFCs would be: US$2 million for SMIB and KLB and US$500,000 for
CNB. Except for KLB, these subloan ceilings are the same for SMIB and CNB
under other Bank loans to these instituti ns. Because of the target enter-
prises under the project are small and medium machinery industries, KLB has
agreed to lower the subloan limit from US$10 million under previous loans to
US$2 million for this project.
4.12      Free Limit.  Because this is the Bank's first such project in Korea,
the Bank has requested the DFCs, and each of them has agreed, to submit the
first 5 subprojects for review by the Bank. Thereafter, the free limits for
the DFCs would be: US$500,000 for SMIB and US$300,000 for CNB. The Bank does
not expect to review any additional subprojects of KLB. However, all
subprojects are subject to post-disbursement review. With these provisions,
it is expected that the Bank would review about 20 subprojects (accounting for
approximately 15% of the total amount of the credit component and 15% of the
number of subprojects) prior to approval.
4.13      Calculation of Economic Rates of Return.  Under the credit compo-
nent, economic rates of return would be calculated by the DFCs on the
following basis: KLB, all subprojects above US$1 million; SMIB and CNB, all
subprojects above the free limit.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
4.14      Procurement.  In the case of the proceeds of the Bank loan to be
channeled through SMIPC, agreement was reached during negotiations with the
Government and SMIPC that all consultants would be engaged in accordance with
Bank guidelines, and in addition, all consultancy contracts above US$100,000
would have consultants, TORs, and terms and conditions subject to the Bank's
prior approval. Consultant contracts below US$100,000 would be subject to
post-approval review; standard TOR forms for routine jobs have been prepared
/1 New York: United Nations, Indexes to the International Standard
Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, (ST/STAT/M.4/
Rev. 2/Add. 1, 1971).



- 38 -
and were agreed to during negotiations while TORs for repeater contracts
where changes are minimal would be exempt from prior approval. With these
thresholds, the Bank expects to review prior to approval about 20% of the
consultancy contracts. With respect to materials and equipment procurement,
expected to total about US$1.75 million, Government procurement procedures,
which provide for a substantial element of competition through strict
competitive bidding practices which require bids from at least three potential
suppliers, would be followed. These procedures are acceptable to the Bank.
The machinery and equipment contracts are expected to be numerous and small,
and international competitive bidding would not be appropriate. In the case
of the credit component to be implemented by SMIB, KLB, and CNB, the
procurement procedures would follow those of each of DFC. These procedures,
which are based on strict competitive bidding practices that require at least
three bids from potential suppliers, have been examined and found to be
satisfactory under previous Bank loans (paras. 2.06, 3.22, 3.25 and 3.28).
These procedures conform to the Government's guidelines, which emphasize
competitive bidding, and to the special requirements of small and medium
enterprises.
4.15       Disbursement.  Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be
for two purposes: (a) technical assistance and training; and (b) credit.
The technical assistance and training component would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of the total costs of consultancy services retained by SMIPC;
(b) 100% of overseas training for both SMIPC staff and for small and medium
machinery enterprise management and staff; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
of directly imported equipment and materials; and (d) 60% of the local
expenditures for imported goods purchased off-the-shelf or locally manu-
factured equipment and materials. The credit component would be used, as in
previous Bank loans to the three DFCS, to finance: (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of goods and services directly imported by their subborrowers;
and (b) 60% of the cost in domestic currency (representing the estimated
foreign exchange cost) of locally manufactured or procured machinery and
equipment. The proposed Bank loan is expected to be fully committed in three
years and fully disbursed by mid-1986 (closing date December 31, 1986). The
estimated quarterly disbursements are given in Annex 8. The standard
Industrial Development and Finance (IDF) disbursement profile is not relevant
for the portion to be allocated to SMIPC, whereas the disbursements under the
credit component is expected to be completed well within the disbursement
profile for the IDF sector in the region, which is complete disbursements
within four years, because of the efficiency of the participating DFCs and
because the demand for investment funds by machinery enterprises substantially
exceed the amount of the credit available under the loan. The disbursement
profile for this project is based on the projections provided by SMIPC and the
three DFCs, and is realistic.
D. Agreements Reached and Recommendation
4.16       Agreements Reached.  During negotiations, the following agreements
were reached or confirmed:



- 39 -
(a) Condition of Loan Effectiveness:
(i) signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the Govern-
ment and SMIPC, SMIB, KLB, and CNB, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.08).
(b) With the Government regarding:
(i) loan channeling arrangements and treatment of foreign exchange
and variable interest risks (para. 4.06); and front-end fee
(para. 4.08);
(ii)  Government support for SMIPC (para. 3.17); and
(iii) formation of a coordinating council (para. 3.30).
(c) With SMIPC regarding:
(i) appointment of a consultancy firm to SMIPC satisfactory
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank by March 31, 1983 (para. 3.04);
(ii)  assignment of staff to coordinate technical assistance and
training by March 31, 1983 (para. 3.06);
(iii) formulation of its monitoring system (para. 3.06);
(iv)  maintenance and increasing private sector representation in
its operations (para. 3.08);
(v) reorganization of SMIPC's Extension Service Departments I
and II in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by March 31, 1983
(para. 3.11);
(vi)  staffing plans and training programs for SMIPC staff
(para. 3.12);
(vii) its intention to maintain a competitive salary and staff
benefit structure (para. 3.13);
(viii)  its cost recovery formulae for PROTIP extension services,
(para. 3.15);
(ix)  its intention to maintain a separate account for the project
and provide audit reports of the project account and SMIPC's
accounts (para. 3.20); and
(x) its procurement procedures (para. 4.14).



- 40 -
(d) With each of SMIB, KLB, and CNB regarding:
(i)  eligibility criteria for subloans (para. 4.10);
(ii)  ceiling of individual subloans (para. 4.11); and
(iii)  free limits of individual subloans and each of the DFCs
would submit the first five subprojects for Bank review
(para. 4.12), and calculation of ERRs (para. 4.13).
4.17      Recommendation.  A Bank loan of US$70 million with a maturity of 14
years, including a grace period of 3 years, is recommended.



- 4 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and The Manufacturing Sector
Structural Changes in the Manufacturing Sector, 1972 to 1980 /1
1972-80 average
annual growth rate,
(in constant 1975
1972     1976      1980      prices) (%)
Gross output (billion won)
Manufacturing sector   (a)   2,441.6  11,677.2  36,279.1    18.6
Machinery industries /2(b)      178.9   2,158.7   6,960.8    36.9
(b/a)                   (%)      [1.8       18.5      19.2
Value added (billion won)
Manufacturing sector   (c)      899.4   4,075.1  11,856.6    17.8
Machinery industries /2(d)      115.0      809.3   2,587.7    35.7
(d/c)                   (%)      12.8       19.9      21.8
Exports (US$ million)
Total                   (e)   1,807.0   8,114.9  17,504.9    20.9
Manufacturing sector   (f)   1,584.3   7,283.2  16,150.8    22.7
Machinery industries   (g)      171.6   1,280.4   3,450.7    48.0
(f/e)                   (%)      87.7       89.8      92.3
(g/f)                   (%)      10.8       17.6      21.4
/1 All values expressed in current prices.
/2 Includes all activities classified to Korean Standard Industrial Classi-
fication (KSIC) Code 38- "Manufacture of fabricated metal products,
machinery and equipment."
Source: EPB.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Structure of the Machinery Industries,/a 1980
(Current prices)
General    Electrical   Transport  Precision    All
machinery    machinery   equipment  machinery  machinery
Gross output
(billion won)          913         2,720          2,048        315      5,996
Share (%)                15            45            34          5         100
Exports (US$ million)   391           2,015         1,154        264       3,824
Share (%)                10            53            30          7         100
Annual growth in
gross output /b
1972-80   (%)            34            39            37         40          38
1975-80   (%)           26             33            32         33          32
Annual growth in
exports /b
1972-80   (%)            37            42            74         55          47
1975-80   (%)            32            25            37         25          29
/a  Covers those industries classified to KSIC Code 38, excluding fabricated
metal products (KSIC=381).
/b In constant (1975) prices.
Source: EPB.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Size Structure of the Machinery Industries,/a 1980
Gross      Value
Enterprises      Employees      output      added
(no.)           ('000)         (billion won)
Machinery Industries
Small and medium /b              4,250             171        1,428         614
Large                              250             274        4,568       1,588
Total                         4,500             445        5,996      2,202
Share of Small and Medium          ------------------- (%) ------------------
Enterprises
General machinery                 97.9            62.8         50.1        49.6
Electrical machinery              90.1            32.7         20.4       23.1
Transport equipment               95.3            28.1         13.7        18.6
Precision machinery               94.4            53.2         43.1        45.4
All machinery                     94.4            38.4         23.8        27.9
Manufacturing                     96.6            49.6         31.9        35.2
/a  Covers those industries classified to KSIC Code 38, excluding
fabricated metal products (KSIC 381).
/b Enterprises with less than 300 employees.
Source: Report on Mining and Manufacturing Survey, 1980, EPB.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Production Indexes for Machinery Industries /a
Industry                   1975    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
(May)/b
General machinery         100.0   166.4   253.9   254.4   190.6   218.6   232.5
Electrical machinery    100.0   219.1   304.2   360.3   307.3   349.2   368.1
Transport equipment       100.0   149.5   222.8   257.1   201.3   263.3   298.9
Precision machinery       100.0   213.3   274.1   291.9   298.7   297.7   268.4
Manufacturing             100.0   158.7   196.4   220.1   215.9   238.8   240.7
/a  Annual figures based on averages of monthly indexes.
/b Average of seasonally adjusted monthly figures for January to May 1982.
Source: Monthly Economic Statistics, EPB.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Capacity Utilization Ratios by Industry (%)
Industry                            1977      1978      1979      1980    1981/a
(Jan-Oc t)
General machinery                   66.8      68.8      74.9      45.6     46.9
Electrical machinery                71.8      71.1      74.9      58.6     59.6
Transport equipment                 37.6      45.0      43.1      46.2     63.3
Total manufacturing                 81.5      88.1      81.9      73.2     74.6
/a  Monthly average for period January to October 1981.
Source: Mission estimates.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



ANNEX 1
- 46 -                              Tablee b
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Ilachinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
SMIs Operating At Normal Operating Ratios /a
(%)
/b
1978         1979         1980         1981
Mining and Quarrying                       72.2         71.5         74.6         75.3
Manufacturing                              82.0         76.2         70.1         76.8
Food and beverage                        85.5         76.5         78.8         82.4
Textile, wearing apparel and
leather                                86.9         70.7        65.7         70.9
Wood and wood products                   67.6         70.8         73.1         71.8
Paper and paper products                 89.1         92.1         87.5         76.8
Chemicals, petroleum, coal,
rubber and plastic products            74.5         68.9        81.6         80.3
Nonmetallic mineral products             51.5         61.0         41.9         57.9
Basic metals                             97.2         67.8         76.4         77.2
Metal products, machinery and
equipment                              95.3         93.8        73.9         91.6
Other                                    95.3         77.9         84.1         84.1
Overall                              81.8          76.1        70.2         76.8
/a "Normal" implies 80% capacity utilization or more.
/b During October 1981.
Source: Korea Federation of Small Business
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Export Projections: 1981 to 1986
(Billion US dollars, current prices)
1982-86
Annual growth
1980           1981           1986      rate (in real
Industry                 Value  Share  Value  Share  Value  Share        terms
(%)            (%)            (%)       (%)
Machinery                  3.5   19.8    4.4   20.9   17.3   32.6         21.8
General machinery        0.4    2.1    0.4    1.7    2.2    4.1         32.9
Electrical machinery    1.9   11.0    2.2   10.6    6.9   13.0          16.0
Transport equipment      1.2    6.6    1.8    8.6    8.2   15.4         25.3
Total exports             17.5  100.0   21.0  100.0   53.0  100.0         11.4
Source:  A Summary Draft of the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan: 1982-86, EPB, September 1981.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Imports of Machinery by Major Developed Countries
(US$ million, %)
US                     Japan                  Germany/a
Total                   Total                   Total
machinery    LDC        machinery   LDC         machinery   LDC
Year        imports        share    imports       share    imports        share
(US$ mil)      (%)      (US$ mil)    (%)        (US$ mil)    (%)
1970         11,171        5.0         2,132 /b  1.9 /b        6,700      1.0
1975         24,257      10.8          3,824     10.2        13,046       3.0
1979         56,560      14.5          7,038     16.4        30,797       2.8
/a  Federal Republic of Germany.
/b  Japan data relate to 1971.
Source:  U.N. Commodity Trade Statistics, 1970 and 1971, 1975 and 1979
Statistical Papers Series D; Vol. XX, Nos. 1-15, 1-20, Vol. XXI,
No. 1-10, Vol. XXV, Nos. 1-4, 1-14 and 9-3, Vol. XXIX, Nos. 1-4,
1-5 and 1-19.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Table 9
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Growth in Domestic Demand and Domestic Shares For
Machinery Industries /a
Domestic demand /b
Average annual
growth (in cons-    Domestic share
Industry                 1975      1980 tant 1975 prices)   1975        1980
(Billion won)      (%)            (%)        (%)
Machinery                1,671    6,784    23.7              41.3       54.1
General machinery          545    2,157    21.7              24.5       31.3
Electrical machinery       526    2,402    28.1              48.8       62.3
Transport equipment        546    1,986    21.0              51.4       67.8
Precision machinery         55       239    22.2             35.7       64.6
/a  Covers those industries classified to KSIC Code 38, excluding fabri-
cated metal products (KSIC 381).
/b Domestic output - Exports + Imports.
Source: EPB.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



- 50                                 ANNX 2
Page 1
KOREA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Letter of Development Policy for the Machinery Industries
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
UNIFIED GOVERNMENT BUILDING * SEOUL
September 24, 1982
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction .& Development        -
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen:
We would like to take this opportunity to let
you know how grateful we are for your invaluable
contribution to the promotion of the Small and
Medium Scale Machinery project, which has been de-
veloped by both the World Bank and the Republic of
Korea.
The purpose of this letter is in regard to the
loan request for the above-mentioned project in
Korea, and we hax~e pleasure in enclosing herewith
the Letter of Development Policy for the Machinery
Industries which, we trust, you will find satisfac--
tory. It includes what we think are the most im-
portant factors, such as technical assistance and
development policy, protection policy, export pro-
motion and import restrictions and subcontracting,
all with particular reference to furthering suc-
cessful progress in the Korean Machinery Industries
and the economy in general.
We believe that with your cooperation and
assistance, remarkable results can be achieved
from this loan project, and we shall make every
effort to work with you in every step of its
progress.
Should you need further information, or if
you have any advice or comments on this subject,
please do not hesitate to contact us.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Encl.                          A  im Dong-Whie
Minister



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR THE MACHINERY INDUSTRIES
This letter is to request a loan in support of the development of
machinery industries in Korea.
Background
Since the mid-1970's, our country-s industrial sector has entered
a period of substantial structural change- In the earlier period of rapid
industrial expansion (which commenced in the early 1960s), principal
emphasis was placed on export-oriented development of light industries, such
as textiles, clothing and wood products. In recent years, however, these
industries have begun to face stiffer competition in world markets, arising
from factors such as rapid export expansion by other newly-industrializing
nations, more restrictive import policies of the industrialized nations and
rapidly increasing wage rates in Korea.
During the Third and Fourth Five-Year Plan period (1972-81),
increased emphasis was placed on the process of strengthening and diversify-
ing the industrial base. The first steps in this process involved an
emphasis on machinery and electronics industries. Between 1972 and 1980,
the share of manufacturing value added contributed by the machinery sub-
sector (including electronics) increased from 13% to 22%, and the share of
machinery exports in total exports increased from 11% to 20%.
This remarkable growth, which has faltered during the recent
recessionary period, must be continued into the future if Korea is to



- 52 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 3
maintain a rapid rate of economic expansion. Our country can no longer
rely on labor-intensive traditional exports to supply the momentum of rapid
growth. Emphasis must increasingly be placed on skill and technology-
intensive activities. Accordingly, the machinery industries will remain
one of the keystones of Korea's development prospects over the Fifth Plan
period and beyond.
A primary objective for future development of the machinery indus-
tries is to achieve a more balanced structure between the large end-item
producers and the small and medium producers of parts and components. To
this end, attention will be concentrated on balancing out existing capacity
of heavy machinery producers and improving operating ratios. New, large-
scale projects will be initiated only after the completion of detailed
feasibility studies. Increased emphasis will be placed on promotion of
specialized small and medium machinery producers, and on the design and
implementation of programs for improving productivity and quality. This
will be achieved through technical assistance, improved absorption of
foreign technology, increased research and development activity and
improved technical manpower training.
Expected Contribution of the Machinery Industries to Economic
Development During the Fifth Plan Period (1982-86)
Over the Fifth Plan period, value added originating in the machin-
ery industries is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 17.6% com-
pared with projected GNP growth of 7.6% p.a. (in 1980 prices), increasing
the share of these industries in total GNP from 16.7% in 1980 to 22.9% in



- 53 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 4
1986. On this basis, the machinery industries would contribute approxi-
mately one percentage point per annum to the growth rate of GNP. Machinery
exports (expressed in current US dollars) are projected to grow at over
30% p.a. over this period, compared with growth in total exports of around
20% p.a., a contribution of more than six percentage points to the annual
growth rate of total exports.
Policies for the Promotion of Machinery Industry Development
In order to support the ambitious plans for machinery industry
development, the Government has already taken, or is planning to take,
policy initiatives in a number of key areas including:
(a) the provision of technical assistance and training;
(b) incentives for technology upgrading and development;
(c) protection policies;
(d) export incentives; and
(e) subcontracting policies.
(a) Technical Assistance and Training. The Government is committed
to supporting the considerable efforts required to address the needs of
small and medium machinery producers for technical assistance and training.



_ 54 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 5
In January 1979, the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
(SMIPC) was established as a comprehensive agency in Korea, to carry out
various kinds of governmental policies for the development of small and
medium-scale industries. Its major activities are as follows:
(i) support for modernization projects;
(ii) support for cooperation projects;
(iii) extension services;
(iv) training services; and
(v) information services.
From its establishment until 1981, SKPIC has undertaken technical
assistance projects for 444 enterprises in the machinery and metals
industries, 567 in other fields and management extension services for 589
enterprises. Most of the services have been carried out by domestic
consultants.
Early this year, the Government decided to merge the Korea
Production Technology Corporation (KOPTEC) with SMIPC, so that SMIPC will
be further strengthened in its technical assistance function, especially
with regard to productivity on the shop floor. Such an arrangement is
planned to maximize the efficiency of manpower and budget through the
coordination of both organizations, and devised to have a unification
of technical assistance projects in Korea. After merging, SMIPC will



- 55                                  ANNEX 2
Page 6
intensify more effective extension services through the utilization of
first-class foreign experts on the shop floor, which have been previously
conducted by KOPTEC.
Therefore, the Government expects that SMIPC will play an import-
ant role for the development of small and medium enterprises as a core
agency providing technical assistance and training.
Although SMIPC does not charge for any extension services at
present, SMIPC will charge, in the case of delivering extension services by
foreign experts, from the year 1983. The cost recovery ratio will be
decided according to formulae agreed by SMIPC with the World Bank and based
on the interest and need for these services by machinery enterprises. Also
considered will be the situation of the structural improvement of small and
medium enterprises, in order to set up the annual cost recovery ratio
simultaneously.
The Government intends to recover 10% of direct costs in 1983,
and will raise its charge to 80% of full direct costs within ten years.
SMIPC will cover its operating expenses through the operating income of
the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund.
On the basis of a review of the industrial extension services
system in Korea completed in December, 1981, the Government has initiated
an action program to further improve the efficiency of the system after
consultation with the World Bank. The action program has established



- 56-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 7
performance targets of assistance services, and has outlined a phased cost
recovery program for the services of SMIPC.
During 1982, the first phase of the Training Institute of SMIPC at
Banwohl will be completed. Training courses for entrepreneurs and for
extension services officers will commence in October, covering management
and organizational matters. Technical training, for which a workshop
complex at Banwohl is being built and equipped, is planned to start in early
1984.
(b) Technology Development. Policy initiatives directed to supporting
technological upgrading and advancement of machinery and other technology-
intensive industries include measures to promote the acquisition of foreign
technology (through foreign direct investment (FDI) and the import of
technology under license), and encouragement of local research, development
and engineering.
Restrictions on FDI have been relaxed considerably. As of July
1981, half of Korea-s industries have been opened up to foreign investors.
For the machinery industries, this ratio is in excess of 90%. Further
liberalization of FDI restrictions is planned for the Fifth Plan period, and
steps are being taken to improve the administrative environment faced by
foreign investors in Korea.
The procedures for importing technology under license have been
liberalized substantially over the last three years. As of January, 1982,



- 57                                  ANNEX 2
Page 8
all controls and restrictions (except those relating to strategic areas,
such as nuclear technology) have been removed. These measures will make
it easier and less costly for Korean products to gain access to overseas
technology through licensing arrangements.
Under the Technology Promotion Law, various incentives are
made available to promote the development and upgrading of industry-s
technological capability.
These include tax exemptions for profits set aside in technology
development reserves; reduced tariffs on the import of R&D equipment;
deduction of annual non-capital RD&E expenditures from taxable income;
accelerated depreciation on industrial RD&E facilities; and tax credits for
investment in facilities in RD&E work, or for commercialization of locally-
developed R&D results. In order to promote the use of domestically-produced
capital equipment, a higher tax credit is available for locally-produced
equipment (10% vis-a-vis 8% for imported equipment). From 1982, a special
tax credit equivalent to 10% of all RD&E expenditure by industry is being
implemented.
The Government has established the Korea Institute of Electronics
Technology (KIET) to provide RD&E and other services to the electronics
industry KIET has the facilities and capabilities to provide services
across the full spectrum of the product cycle, from research and development
to production. Also, steps have been taken to improve the supply of finan-
cial resources for RD&E through the establishment of the Korea Technology



- 58 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 9
Development Corporation (KTDC), a private sector organization which will
provide conventional loans, conditional loans (in which KTDC will share the
risks and profits with project sponsors) and equity investments for Korean
RD&E projects. KTDC has earmarked 30% of its credit lending to small and
medium industries. Both KIET and KTDC have been supported by World Bank
loans.
(c) Protection Policies. Protection policies have constituted a key
element of the assistance strategy for development of the machinery indus-
tries. Principal reliance has been placed on restriction of imports where
similar, locally-produced items are available. However, while the Govern-
ment considers it necessary to provide protection against import competition
during the early development phase of these industries, this protection must
be limited in extent and duration if Korean machinery industries are to
develop into internationally-competitive. export-orientd industries, able to
make a major contribution to Korea-s economic growth. The proportion of
machinery items subject to import restriction has already been reduced since
1977 from 65% to less than 50%. This ratio, however, is still considerably
higher than the average of less than 25% for all other industries.
Accordingly, a priority task in the review of industrial incen-
tives and protection policies, currently in progress as part of the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) agreements with the World Bank, will be a
detailed review of protection for the machinery industries. Detailed terms
of reference for this review have been agreed with the World Bank.



- 59 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 10
The final report will be submitted to the World Bank for review by
June 1983. A detailed action program for further rationalizing tariffs and
establishing a set of priorities for repealing import restrictions (includ-
ing a program for converting import restrictions to tariff protection) for
the machinery industries will be submitted to the World Bank following the
final report.
(d) Export Incentives. Exports of machinery products are typically
financed through medium and long-term suppliers' credits. The Government
has already greatly expanded the role of the Korea Export Import (EXIM) Bank
in this area, and further substantial increases are planned for the Fifth
Plan period. Increased efforts will be made to encourage commercial banks'
co-financing of these export credits.
The Government's overall commitment to promoting export competi-
tiveness of Korean industry will also have important ramifications for
machinery exports. A principal objective for the Fifth Plan period is to
reduce domestic inflation rates with a view to promoting the cost competi-
tiveness of Korean products in international markets. The Government will
also continue with its program of improving export procedures by simplifying
rules and regulations.
(e) Subcontracting Policies. A key element of the Government's devel-
opment policy for the machinery industries is the promotion of stronger
links between suppliers of parts and components and assemblers. Without the
supply of these parts and components on an efficient and competitive basis
at acceptable quality levels, the large assemblers cannot perform effectively.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 11
At present. subcontracting arrangements in the machinery indus-
tries in Korea have been developed to a very limited extent only, compared
with some developed countries at a similar stage of industrial development.
The major reason for this is the lack of development of small and medium
machinery producers. This has been due to factors such as their limited
access to financial resources because of the priority given to heavy and
chemical industry development during the 1970's, and the absence of suitable
programs providing technical assistance to small and medium machinery
producers. At the same time, large assemblers of machinery and equipment
have installed facilities to produce a wide range of parts and components
in-house, in preference to developing subcontracting sources.
The Government's strategy to overcome these problems is concen-
trated on providing support in those product areas where it is considered
that subcontracting could be developed most efficiently. Assistance has
been provided to small and medium subcontractors through increased access to
financial resources through the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB) and
the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund (KCGF); improved access to technical
assistance and training through SMIPC; and assistance through Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MCI) in negotiating and monitoring contract
arrangements with large companies. Also, efforts have been made to persuade
large companies to consign to subcontractors production of selected parts
and components produced in-house.



- 61 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 12
The number of items designated as subcontracting items (produc-
tion of which may thus be eligible for the foregoing assistance) has been
rapidly expanded over the last two years. As of end-1980, there were 70
designated subcontract items while, at end-1981 this had increased to 800
items (approximately 600 of which are machinery items). The Government
plans to continue expanding the range of designated contract items. How-
ever, over the longer terms, as the existing imbalances between small and
large machinery producers are overcome, it plans progressively to reduce its
direct involvement in designation of subcontract items and enterprises, and
to increase the role of competitive market forces in the development of
subcontracting arrangements. In this context, it plans to initiate a
critical review of current subcontracting policies and procedures in the
context of its overall review of industrial incentives and protection
policies. The review will assess the impact of these arrangements on small
and medium producers and large assemblers, and will assess alternative
incentive policies directed to encouraging large assemblers to make greater
use of subcontracting arrangements.
Emphasis will be placed on assessing the effects on factors, such
as scale of operations, specialization, costs, quality aspects and delivery
schedules of small and medium producers. The review would similarly assess
the impact on large assemblers of consigning to subcontractors production of
items previously produced in-house. Major difficulties still faced by
subcontractors and users will be identified, and measures to address these
problems will be formulated.



- 62-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 13
The review will also assess alternative incentive policies
designed to encourage increased subcontracting by large assemblers, with a
view to gradually replacing institutional intervention in the selection and
support of subcontractors with more broadly-based incentives policies.
Terms of reference have been agreed with the World Bank, and the final
report will be submitted to the Bank for discussion by June 1983.
These policy initiatives already taken, or planned, with respect
to machinery industries, together with the industrial and financial policy
proposals outlined in the Fifth Five Year Economic and Social Development
Plan, will contribute to fostering an environment in which the development
of machinery industries can proceed on an efficient and internationally-
competitive basis. The Government is committed to providing support for
these industries, which (as previously noted) comprise a keystone of our
countrys development over the Fifth Plan period and beyond, in a way which
will assist them to realize their domestic and export potential without
excessive or prolonged import protection, fiscal or financial assistance.
We will continue to monitor closely the evolving conditions facing
these industries in both domestic and international markets, and will
continue our consultation with you with respect to the measures adopted in
support of these industries.



-63                                                                          ANNEX 2
iOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and The Manufacturing Sector
Key Aspects of Policy Developments Affecting Machinery Industries
Expected impact on                       Projected contribution
Measures taken to December 1981                Measures planned for 1982                      machinery industries                       to economic development
A.  Financial Incentives and Export Promotion
1.  Initial steps taken to reduce           1.  Continuation of program of redu-    1.  Access to financial resources on    1.  Economic development more
Government control and ownership            cig Government intervention in             basis more closely associated               closely related to Kores's con-
of banking system and to open               flnancial sector (including                 with industrial efficiency and              parative advantage.
financial sector to greater for-            phased reduction of NIF lending)            market potential.
eign participation.                         and increasing foreign pertici-                                                     2.  Improved export performance
pation.  Continuing dialogue           2.  Improved access to export credit             leading to economic growth, in-
2.  Expansion of role of Exim bank              with World bank in context of               will facilitate expansion of                 creased employment opportunities
in providing medium- and long-              Bank's financial sector lending            machinery exports.                           and stronger balance of payments
term suppliers' credits for                program.                                                                                 situation.
export of machinery and equip-
ment.                                  2.  Continued expansion of Exim bank's
funding of suppliers' credits.
Increased efforts to secure
commercial banks' cofinancing.
B.  Technology Development Policies
1.  Relaxation of PDI restrictions:         1.  Continued liberalization of             1.  Iproved access to foreign tech-    General upgrading of technology and
greater range of industries                 industries open to FDI.                     nology and expertise permitting         skills with consequent improvements
open to FDI (50% of Morea's                                                             acceleration of industries' dev-    in international competitiveness of
industries as of July 1981);           2.  Total removal of controls and                elopment.                               Korean industry.
minimum investment and local                restrictions (except for strate-
equity perticipation conditions             gic areas such as nuclear tech-        2.  Improved incentives for R&D and
relaxed.                                   nology and defence) on importing             upgrading of technology result-
technology under license from               ing in accelerated development
2.  U beralization of procedures for            early 1982.                                 of machinery industries.
importing technology under
license.                               3.  Planned introduction in 1982 of
additional tax rebate/exemption
3.  Provision of expanded taxation              equivalent to 10% of total R&D
and financial incentives for                expenditure.
research and development (R&D)
and technology upgrading.
C. Technical Assistance, Extenaion Services and Training
Provision of technical assist-         Reduction in nmsber of agencies pro-    Improved access to technical assist-    Improved technical performance lead-
ance, extension services and           viding extension services to SMIs           ance, extension services and train-          ing to improvements in international
training through SMIPC, SMIB,          from  19 to 4 and improvement in            ing through SMIPC.                          competitiveness of machinery indus-
and several other agencies             coordination between these agencies.                                                    tries and machinery users.
Further upgrading of quality of
technical assistance, extension
services and training.
D.  Dport Liberalization and Tariff Reform
Increase in import liberaliza-         1.  Continued import liberalization         Rationalization of industry struc-          More efficient and lower cost supply
tion ratio for all import items             to levels comparable with devel-    ture with increased emphasis on pro-    of capital goods to Korean indus-
from 53% in 1978 to 75% in 1981            oped countries by 1986.                 duction of items consistent with             tries; higher growth rate of machin-
and from 391 in 1978 to 51% in                                                     Morea's comparative advantage.              ery industries and user industries;
1981 for machinery and equipment    2.  Comprehensive review of import                                                         increased employment opportunities;
(based on 4-digit CCCN codes).             protection policies to be under-                                                    and more efficient import substitu-
taken as part of SAL agreements.                                                    tion.
Priority to be given to review
of machinery industries leading
to action program for rationali-
zation of protection structure
for these industries.
E.  Subcontracting Policies
Provision of financial incen-          1.  Plans for introduction during           Closer working relationships between    Improved intra- and interindustry
tives for specialized small and             1982 of tax incentives for the         large assemblers and small and medium   linkages; faster export growth and
mediua machinery producers                  transfer of machinery and equip-    subcontractors with consequent im-              improved import substitution;
entering into subcontracting               ment for production of parts and    provements in quality control, relia-   increased employment opportunities;
arrangements with large                     components equipment from large        bility, etc. of parts and components.   beneficial balance of payments
assemblers.                                 assemblers to small and medium                                                      effects.
subcontractors.
2.  Review of subcontracting poli-
cies with emphasis on examina-
tion of alternative incentives
measures in preference to direct
institutional intervention in
choice of subcontractors.
AEPID
September 7, 1982



KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
SMIB's, KLB's and CNB's Projected Lending Operations
to the Machinery Sector for the Years 1983-85
(W million and $ million)
1983                          1984                           1985
Domestic  Foreign             Domestic  Foreign              Domestic  Foreign
currency  currency  Total   currency  currency  Total   currency  currency  Total
Small and Medium Industry Bank
Total Equipment Loans to SMI Sector        235,820    58,800  294,620  257,420    64,400  321,820  277,700    69,300  347,000
- of which for machinery sector              75,462    19,404   94,866   84,949    22,540  107,489   94,418    25,641  120,059
- as % of total equipment loans                32.0       33.0     32.2      33.0       35.0      33.4      34.0       37.0      34.6
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
Total Equipment Loans to SMI Sector          32,234    41,790   74,024   47,114    48,090   95,204   57,382    55,440  112,822
- of which for machinery sector               6,647     8,358   14,805    9,423        9,618   19,041   11,477    11,088   22,265
- as % of total equipment loans                20.6       17.4      20.0     20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0
Citizens National Bank
Total Equipment Loans to SMI Sector          66,300    31,050   97,350   86,200    35,190  121,390  112,050    39,330  151,380
- of which for machinery sector              11,300     4,900   16,200   17,200        6,300   23,500   26,900        7,700   34,600
- as % of total equipment loans                17.0       15.8      16.6     20.0       17.9      19.4      24.0       19.6      22.9
Totals
Equipment Loans to SMI Sector            334,354   131,640  465,994  390,734   147,680  538,414  447,132   164,070  611,202
Machinery Sector Loans                    93,409    32,662  126,071  111,572    38,458  150,030  132,795    44,429  177,224
(US$ equivalent)                          (129.7)    (45.4)  (175.1)  (155.0)    (53.4)  (208.4)  (184.4)    (61.7)  (246.1)
AEPID
August 1982



- 65 -                              ANNX 4
Page 1
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION
POLICY STATEMENT
(Approved by the Board of Policy on November 12, 1982)
Objective
1.        This Policy Statement sets forth the role of the Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC). SMIPC is the primary institution
in Korea charged with promoting the efficient development of Small and Medium
Industry (SMI) in Korea, and thus, with contributing to the balanced
development of the national economy. SMIPC aims to achieve the above
objectives by implementing modernization projects and/or projects with SMI
cooperatives, and by providing comprehensive managerial and technical
extension services and training to SMI.
Scope of SMIPC's Activities
2.        The SMIPC shall carry out the following activities:
(a) Implementation of modernization projects and projects
for cooperatives;
(b) Managerial and technical extension services, and
introduction and dissemination of technology, using
domestic and foreign consultants;
(c) Training of management and employees of SMI, other
institutions concerned with development of SMI in
Korea, and domestic managerial and technical consultants;
(d) Operation and administration of the Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Fund;
(e)  Acquisition of land, buildings and facilities,
establishment of industrial estates, and establishment,
leasing, and transfer of common facilities and standard
factory buildings for cooperative projects;
(f) Acceptance of securities and bonds issued by SMI;
(g) Activities incidental to those specified above; and



- 66 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
(h) Other activities specifically entrusted by the Minister
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry MCI for promotion of SMI.
Identification of Clientele
3.        Small and medium entrepreneurs shall be defined as those which
satisfy the criteria as set forth in Article 2 of the Small and Medium
Industry Basic Act, except for those industries engaged in such
manufacturing industries or transportation services as provided in
Attachment No. 1 of the Enforcement Decree of the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Act. Small and Medium cooperatives established in accordance
with the Small and Medium Industry Cooperatives Act shall also be treated
as small and medium entrepreneurs.
General Principles of Operation
4.        SMIPC will adhere to the following general principles of
operation:
(a) SMIPC will provide comprehensive managerial and technical
extension services, and training, to SMI;
(b) SMIPC will recruit first class domestic and foreign
specialists who have wide experience and up-to-date
knowledge to provide such services and training;
(c) SMIPC will require foreign specialists as part
of their terms of contract to train their
domestic counterparts in their areas of expertise;
(d) SMIPC will utilize domestic specialists from all
specialized institutions within Korea, endeavoring
not to duplicate facilities or available human
resources of institutions within Korea;
(e) SMIPC aims to assist small and medium entrepreneurs
or cooperatives in preparing investment proposals
to financial institutions to carry out investment
plans for expansion and acquisition or equipment;
(f) SMIPC will make recommendation to the Government
for appropriate changes in the system of incentives
affecting these industries, including tariffs, tax
rates, and regulations, keeping in mind the main
objective of promoting efficient and competitive
development of SMI;
(g) SMIPC's service fees will initially be charged at
nominal rates, but will be graduated so that eventually



- 67 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
the direct costs of providing such services will be
fully recovered.
Cooperation with Other Institutions
5.        In the case of managerial and technical extension services, and
training, SMIPC will endeavor to form working relationships with other
institutions, both in Korea and overseas, to provide such services. It is
anticipated that SMIPC will be able to fulfill its role most effectively if
it does not perform all the required tasks with in-house staff, and that by
taking advantage of capabilities and facilities of other institutions, SMIPC
will be able to maximize the impact of its own limited resources.
6.        In the case where financial assistance to enterprises or coopera-
tives is identified as necessary to effect improvements in productivity and
upgrade technology, SMIPC would be in a position to identify a large
proportion of such proposals. The approval, and eventually, the shouldering
of the credit risks for such investment proposals to small and medium enter-
prises and cooperatives, would be the responsibility of the financial
institutions.
Management and Organization
7.        SMIPC has been established as a public corporate foundation under
the pertinent provisions of the Civil Law.
8.        SMIPC is legally entitled to recieve budgetary support from the
Government in accordance with the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Law
and is empowered to administer the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund.
9.        To maximize its impact. on its clients, SMIPC will follow general
Government guidelines as formulated and announced by the Minister of
Commerce and Industry in respect of its development objectives. Its policies
will be determined by its Board of Policy. However, SMIPC's Board of
Directors have been granted full autonomy in operational matters.
10.       In order to get full support from both the public and private
sectors, SMIPC's Board of Policy includes a representative mix of Government
officials, representatives from priority industrial sectors, financial
institutions, and representatives from universities.   It is the intention
that from time to time, the composition of the Board of Policy would be
changed so that non-ex officio members would be representative of the
industrial subsectors being given priority in SMIPC's plans and programs.
11.       SMIPC's President/Chairman is appointed by the President of the
Republic of Korea upon the request of the Minister of MCI; the Directors
are appointed by the Minister of MCI upon the request of the President/
Chairman of SMIPC. The Directors will each possess appropriate managerial
(and preferably technical) qualifications so that they will have the



- 68 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 4
confidence and respect of small and medium entrepreneurs and the staff of
SMIPC.
12.       In order to recruit and retain quality staff, SMIPC will set the
compensation of its staff at a level that will be competitive with both
private and public sector organizations in Korea, and will continually
review its compensation policies to ensure their continued competitiveness.
Performance Audit
13.       To assess its own effectiveness in the performance of its own
functions, SMIPC maintains a monitoring system to evaluate the impact of
its extension officers and training experts, and issues periodic progress
reports on its modernization projects, cooperatives projects, extension
service and training activities to evaluate the impact of its operations on
the output, productivity, and technological improvement of its clients.
Financial Audit
14.       SMIPC will carry out its financial practices with due consideration
to prudence and financial responsibility.
15.       SMIPC will maintain accounting records to reflect its operations
and affairs in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
standards, and will submit financial statements to the Minister of MCI not
less than three months after the close of each fiscal year.
16.       An audit of SMIPC's accounts and financial statements by an
independent auditor outside of SMIPC will be conducted annually.



-69 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION
Strategy Statement for Production Technology
Improvement of the Machinery Industries, 1983-86
(Approved by the Board of Policy on November 12, 1982)
Introduction
1.        Among its many activities to promote the development of Small and
Medium Industries (SMI) in Korea, the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) has been charged with improving the production
technology capabilities of Korea's small and medium machinery industries.
In accordance with Government policy, as indicated in the Fifth Five-Year
Socio-Economic Development Plan, the machinery industries are expected to
be the source of much of the growth in output and exports targeted during
the Plan period, and indeed, for the rest of the 1980's.
2.        Recognizing that Korean machinery industries must be substantially
improved if the targets are to be achieved, and given that market considera-
tions for machinery industries are much different from those of Korea's
traditional exports, SMIPC has targeted the machinery industries as one of
the priority industries for the improvement of production technology of
Korean industries. For this purpose an Extension Service Programming
Department II has been established within SMIPC. This department is charged
with implementing the production technology program (PROTIP) initially
designed primarily for the machinery industries.
3.        SMIPC intends to achieve its task of improving production
technology of machinery industries through a comprehensive program of
managerial and technical extension services, training, and technical
information, using both domestic and foreign specialists.
Small and Medium Machinery Industries
4.        SMIPC will concentrate its activities on small and medium
machinery industries. Though large-scale machinery industries also need
assistance in improving their productivity and efficiency, SMIPC has
nevertheless decided to concentrate on providing assistance to small and
medium machinery industries and cooperatives, as it is felt that larger
enterprises have a greater capability to identify and solve their own
problems.
Priority Areas of Assistance
5.        In order not to spread its limited resources too thinly, SMIPC
will concentrate on metal working manufacturing engineering and production
and inventory control technology, as well as in improving maintenance



- 70 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 2
will concentrate on metal working manufacturing engineering and production
and inventory control technology, as well as in improving maintenance
management and manufacturing processes. These areas have been identified
through surveys and past experience as the areas where machinery industries
would need assistance, and where the greatest pay-offs are expected.
Criteria for Selection of Firms to be Assisted
6.        The criteria for selection of firms to be assisted are as follows:
(a) Manufacturers of products and components whose linkage
effects are strong;
(b) Firms which are willing to make changes to improve
production technology and are capable of absorbing
and utilizing up-to-date technological information
and training provided by SMIPC; and
(c) Industries that have been identified by SMIPC as
being particularly weak or which are critical in
promoting exports.
Delivery of Assistance
7.        In delivering its comprehensive extension service, training, and
technical information services, SMIPC will cooperate and coordinate with
other organizations in Korea and abroad. This is in order not to spread its
limited resources too thinly, and not to duplicate the programs and
facilities of other existing institutions. SMIPC will endeavor to play the
role of coordinator and will limit build-up of in-house capabilities using
its own staff to cases where such a build-up is absolutely necessary.
Organization and Management
8.        SMIPC will endeavor to ensure the effective participation of the
private sector in its activities and programs. SM4IPC will increase the
private sector participation (especially from small and medium machinery
industry representatives) in its Board of Policy, participate in a coordina-
ting council comprising SMIPC and financial institutions, and continue its
systematic and regular mechanisms for consultation with the private sector.
9.        SMIPC has appointed a Director with appropriate managerial and
technical qualifications to lead Extension Service Departments I and II. A
small unit in Extension Service Programming Department II would liaise and
coordinate on-site training for small and medium industries identified by
consultants with training activities of SMPIC-s Training Institute and those
other institutions.



ANNEX 5
- 71 -                          Page 3
Staffing
10.       SMIPC will ensure that its staff are paid competitively in
comparison with comparable public and private sector institutions, and will
periodically review its compensation schemes to ensure competitiveness in
order to hire and retain high quality staff. Furthermore, SMIPC will provide
training, both formally and by requiring foreign consultants to train
counterpart staff, so that a group of professionals will be developed in
SMIPC to eventually replace foreign consultants.
Consultancy Firm
11.       To help it in recruiting foreign expertise, SMIPC has established
representative offices in Frankfurt, Tokyo, and New York. SMIPC also
intends to retain the services of consultancy firm(s) to help it recruit
and manage foreign consultants. In the case of the consultancy firm(s),
SMIPC would require it to help it recruit experts from abroad, and to
provide a small technical staff in Korea and a back-up in home office(s) to
help solve difficult technical problems and to support training abroad and
supply necessary technical information when needed.
Cost Recovery
12.       It is SMIPC's intention to initially establish its reputation in
providing production technology improvement services and develop the
recognition of the need for such services by charging only nominal rates.
However, SMIPC recognizes that free goods are often not appreciated, and
intends, as a long-run objective, to fully recover the direct costs of
providing its services. Over a three-year period, SMIPC intends to raise
its charges so that it will recover 30% of its direct costs, and over the
next years, increasing at the rate of 10 percentage points a year, it would
increase its charges to 90% of direct costs by 1991.
Government Financial Support
13.       According to MCI's Ten Year Development Plan for Small and Medium
Industry Development, about W500 billion have been indicated for support of
SMIPC's activities in 1982-1991. W22 billion has already been allocated to
SMIPC in 1982, and MCI has requested an amount of W200 billion for the
Fifth Plan Period, 1982-1986, for the support of SMIPC.
Technological Information System and Central Supply Facilities
14.       SMIPC is a member of TECHNONET/Asia.  In providing technical
information services, SMIPC will focus on providing library services, and
practical and useful information on production techniques, including films,
catalogs, handbooks, manuals, pocket guides, etc.
15.       In the case of central supply facilities, SMIPC will embark upon
provision of such services only after careful analysis of their feasibility
and only after a pilot project, using leased premises, has established its
technical,financial, and economic viability.



- 72 -                                                   ANNEX 6
Table 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
Projected Income Statements, 1982-91
(Won million)
1982       1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989    1990    1991
(Budgeted)  -------------------------------- (Projected) -------------------------------
Revenues
Revenues from financing               5,642      6,603      6,986   10,337   13,390   16,459   19,838   23,202  26,317  29,111
Revenues from cooperatives
project                             5,648        367        434       919       866    1,064         992       921      842     776
Revenues from leasing project           627      1,458      2,772    4,434    6,136    8,289   11,012   12,538  15,823  17,050
Revenues from extension servi-
ces and PROTIP                         80        356        807       807       631       742        793       806     786      878
Other revenues                          255        648        903    1,403    1,478    2,922    3,272    3,668   4,367   4,534
Total Revenues                   12,252       9,432     11,902   17,900   22,501   29,476   35,907   41,135  48,135  52,349
Expenses
Financing costs                          69        120         175       184       227       263       300       321      341      351
Cooperatives project costs            5,568          -           -      442        442       442       702       703      702      702
Training costs                        1,502      1,773      1,964    1,964    1,964    2,162    2,389    2,629   2,886   3,030
Extension and PROTIP costs            4,196      5,862      7,511    8,525    9,038   10,025   10,813   11,600  11,395  11,380
Technical and regional develop-
ment costs                            236        365        804     1,089    1,378    1,679    1,986    2,293   2,606   2,668
Information service costs               923        624        706       777        904       996    1,094    1,204   1,323   1,457
Local and overseas branch costs         451        492        641       963      1,102     1,432    1,556    1,628   1,709   1,784
Leasing project costs                   777      1,857      3,438    4,734    6,554    8,097    9,454   10,831  12,060  12,983
Other costs                             143        327          30        33        36        40        44        48       53       53
Total Direct Costs               13,865    11,420       15,269   18,711   21,645   25,136   28,341   31,257  33,075  34,408
Salary                                3,149      3,655      4,505    4,862    5,155    5,687    6,162    6,685   7,260   7,903
Administrative expenses               1,358      1,188      1,278    1,364    1,464    1,549         1,649    1,753   1,864   1,979
Interest payments                       161        838      1,249    1,577    1,655    1,514    1,368    1,217   1,059             894
Total Indirect Costs              4,668       5,681      7,032    7,803    8,274    8,750    9,179    9,655  10,183  10,776
Total Expenses                   18,533    17,101       22,301   26,514   29,919   33,886   37,520   40,912  43,258  45,184
Net Income (Losses)              (6,281)   (7,669)  (10,399)  (8,614)  (7,418)  (4,410)  (1,613)              223   4,877   7,165
Source:  SMIPC.
AEPID
August 1982



KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1982-91
(Won million)
1982       1983    1984    1985    1986        1987      1988      1989      1990      1991
(Budgeted)  ------------------------------- (Projected) -----------------------------
Sources of Funds
Government contributions                24,874    37,157  39,040  51,330  58,290   58,816   58,406   53,032   47,762   42,570
Borrowings                               3,582      6,427   4,799   2,675          -         -         -         -         -         -
Revolving fund                           2,462    11,405  20,051   8,222  13,579   21,429   29,224   38,132   44,936   52,782
Project operating revenues               8,197      8,932  11,402  16,900  21,501   27,976   34,407   39,635   46,135   50,349
Nonoperating revenues                      200        500      500   1,000   1,000    1,500    1,500    1,500    2,000    2,000
Depreciation                               851      1,685      977   1,984   1,094    1,466    1,285        1,292    1,163         883
Retirement allowances & others /a   15,332            329      469      506     536       602       651       705       765       831
Total                               55,498    66,435  77,238  82,617  96,000  111,789  125,473  134,296  142,761  149,415
Uses of Funds
Modernization projects                  28,175    37,429  44,577  47,274  55,379   64,399   71,596   74,736   77,364   81,116
Training & training institute           11,378      7,646   4,088   1,638   1,623    1,869    2,093    2,304    2,648    2,813
Extension services & PROTIP              4,328      6,185   8,005   9,309  10,683   11,585   12,288   12,990   12,700   12,600
Technical dev. & investments                 -        100   2,773   3,634   6,555    9,456   12,358   15,259   18,160   19,170
Subcontracting support                       -      4,340   5,050   5,050   5,050    6,060    7,070    8,080    9,090   10,100
Folkcraft & rural industry                 751      1,665   3,291   3,820   4,853    5,388    5,928    6,469    7,016    7,568
Information                                921        624      706      777     904       996    1,094    1,204    1,323        1,457
Administration                           5,010      5,402   6,260   7,322   7,785    8,794    9,492   10,248   11,074   11,971
Debt service & other                     2,423      1,085   1,124   1,423   1,697    1,371        1,855    1,288    1,780    1,272
Total                               52,986    64,476  75,874  80,247  94,529  109,918  123,774  132,578  141,155  148,067
Surplus/(Deficit)                    2,512      1,959   1,364   2,370   1,471    1,871    1,699    1,718    1,606    1,348
Cumulative surplus/(deficit)               2,512      4,471   5,835   8,205   9,676   11,547   13,246   14,964   16,570   17,918
/a  Others include cash balance in beginning of 1982 of W 15,211 million.
Source: SMIPC.
AEPID
August 1982



KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
Projected Balance Sheets, 1982-91
(Won million)
1982        1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
(Budgeted)  ------------------------------------- (Projected) --------------------------------------
Assets
Current assets                   22,580      33,488    21,023    28,308    37,187    46,411    56,316    64,135    72,885   .82,949
Investments & other assets    49,978         63,161   101,794   135,206   170,901   210,669   251,914   292,114   331,631   367,824
Fixed assets (net)               19,300      31,395    38,829    43,418    48,855    53,366    58,060    62,299    65,627    68,011
Total                        91,858    128,044   161,646   206,932   256,943   310,446   366,290   418,548   470,143   518,784
Liabilities & Fund Balances
Current liabilities                  86         225        481      1,258      1,308      1,363      1,422       1,487      1,559      1,637
Long-term liabilities             4,129      10,688    15,393    17,186    16,265    15,307    14,299    13,237    12,121    10,949
Government contributions         79,875    117,032   156,072   207,402   265,692   324,508   382,914   435,946   483,708   526,278
Private contributions            12,649      12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649    12,649
Cumulative losses                (4,881)   (12,550)  (22,949)  (31,563)  (38,971)  (43,381)  (44,994)  (44,771)  (39,894)  (32,729)
Total                        91,858    128,044   161,646   206,932   356,943   310,446   366,290   418,548   470,143   578,784
Source: SMIPC.
AEPID
August 1982
a D4
04 o



ANNEX 6
Table 4
- 75 -                       Page 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION
Cost Recovery Guidelines for PROTIP
1.        It is SMIPC's principle to levy a nominal charge on each firm
for its provision of technical assistance to attract full coamitment and
cooperation. For the Production Technology Improvement Program (PROTIP),
SMIPC has drawn up guidelines to determine the amount of charge to be paid
by firms to SMIFC for the services of technical assistance rendered to
firms by SMIPC in accordance with the following schedules:
(a) In case of provision of technical assistance jointly by domestic
and foreign specialists or by a foreign specialists only, the
amount of charge will be equivalent to local living expenses
of foreign specialists.
(b) In case of provision of technical assistance by a domestic
specialist, the amount of charge will be equivalent to local
travel expenses of the domestic specialist.
Calculation of Working Hours for Technical Assistance (T/A)
2.        The actual working hours spent for technical assistance
include:
(a) Hours spent for final remarks on the final day of technical
assistance.
(b) Meeting hours with company executives or staff members for
technical discussion.
(c) Hours spent for preparation of daily report
(d) Hours spent for preparation of the final report.
Calculation of the Amount of Charge
(a) The amount of charge shall be calculated as set forth below
on the basis of local living expenses in the amount of US$140
(equivalent to W 100,000) per diem for a foreign specialist:



ANNEX 6
Table 4
- 76 -                           Page 2
(i) In case of provision of technical assistance by single
foreign specialist:
a. In case the consulting fees of the foreign specialist
are less than US$5,000 per month.
Amount of charge = W 100,000 x 1/8 x Hours of T/A
b. In case the consulting fees of the foreign specialist
are more than US$5,000 per month:
Amount of charge = W 100,000 x 1/8 x Hours of T/A x
Consulting fees per month/$5,000
(ii) In case of provision of technical assistance by a group of more
than two foreign specialists, the amount of charge will be the
combination of the following:
a. The amount of charge calculated in accordance with Item (a)
only for the specialist whose consulting fees are the
highest.
b. 20% discount of the amount of charge calculated in
accordance with Item (a) for the remaining specialists.
(b) With regard to provision of technical assistance by a domestic
specialist, the amount of charge will be calculated on the basis
of local travel expenses of the specialist in the amount of
W 30,000 per day as follows:
Amount of charge = W 30,000 x 1/8 x Hours of T/A
Exemption of Charge
3.        The charge will be exempted for the following cases:
(a) Companies which belong to small industry.
(b) When recognized as necessary by the President of SMIPC in
consideration of each firm's financial situation, etc.



7 77 
ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Basic Data of Participating Financial Institutions
The Small and Medium Industry Bank
1. Year of Establishment: 1961
Paid-in share capital
2.  Ownership:                              Won million             Percent
Government of Korea                      91,060                 85.0
Others                                   16,000                 15.0
Total                              107,060               100.0
1st qtr
3.  Operations (Won million):           1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
Approvals
Working capital loans       2,222,772   3,442,192   4,731,049   6,659,876   1,971,514
Equipment loans
Domestic currency            42,638       65,139       61,257      126,528        8,042
Foreign currency             36,498       45,958       22,165       30,840        6,974
(Foreign currency
loans in $'000)/a         (52,140)    (65,654)    (31,664)    (44,057)         (9,713)
Total Approvals          2,301,908   3,553,289   4,814,471   6,817,244   1,986,530
Outstanding
Working capital loans         283,094      439,338      692,990   1,079,394   1,093,325
Equipment loans
Domestic currency            72,610      122,639      159,225      247,231      246,674
Foreign currency            101,163      116,906      171,677      159,235      160,099
Total Outstanding          456,867      678,883   1,023,892   1,482,562   1,500,098
4. Earnings Record (percentages):
Net income as % of average
equity                            3.3           3.6         22.3         10.2          8.7
Financial expenses as % of
average total assets              8.6           9.4         11.9         11.6          3.2
Administrative expenses as
% of average total assets         3.3           3.1          3.3          3.2          2.3
Book value as % of par             129.0        124.0        134.0        123.0        158.0
Dividend payout ratio               23.0         22.0         17.9         34.3         n.a.
/a   Using exchange rate of US$1 = W 700.



ANNEX 7
- 78 -                                             Table 1
Page 2
5. Financial Position (Won million):
1st qtr
1978        1979         1980         1981         1982
Total assets                    733,325   1,039,107   1,411,464   1,944,925  1,983,366
of which total
loan portfolio               456,867       678,883   1,016,892   1,464,660  1,500,098
Long-term debt                  240,781      342,861      379,965       431,094    432,015
Equity                           25,814       33,649       74,101       131,909    169,185
Current ratio                       1.0           1.0          0.9          0.9         0.9
Long-term debt/equity ratio         8.5           9.1          4.8          3.2         2.5
Reserves and provisions
as % of loan portfolio            1.4          1.0           2.5          2.4         3.0
6.  Status of IBRD Loans as of September 30 1982 (in US$ '000)
Date       Date      Rate of    Onlend-   Loan                   Dis-      Out-
Loan no.   signed   effective  interest  ing rate  amount  Committed  bursed  standing
1175-KO   11/26/75   01/28/76        8.5       10.5    30,000    29,860   29,860   12,300
1507-K0   01/04/78   03/10/78        7.9        9.9    55,000    54,989   54,989   22,350
1749-KO   07/23/79   09/26/79        7.9        9.9    60,000    59,726   59,290  47,580
/a   Preliminary figures.



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Basic Data of Participating Financial Institutions
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
1. Year of Establishment: 19b/
Paid-in share capital
2.  Ownership:                                        Won million             Percent
Private domestic institutions & individuals        39,209                 78.4
Private foreign institutions & individuals         10,791                 21.6
Total                                         50,000                1UU.0
3.  Operations (Won million):                                                         1st qtr
1978         1979         1980       1981      1982
Approvals
Working capital loans           1,546        1,817       54,730    100,595   22,663
Equipment loans
Domestic currency             1,440        2,700       19,110      38,031    4,935
Foreign currency             46,050       t9,855       86,344     99,317    1,750
Total Approvals             49,036       63,694      158,529    234,94Z   29,348
Outstanding
Working capital loans               -          986       50,660    124,336  142,842
Equipment loans
Domestic currency             4,764        b,812       23,699      48,160   4b,UlU
Foreign currency            137,807      173,921      279,139    335,870  342,693
Total Outstanding          142,571      181,719     353,498    508,366  531,545
4. Earnings Record (percentages):
Net income as % of average
equity                           17.1         20.1         25.2        15.1       7.4
Financial expenses as % of
average total assets              8.4          8.2          9.7         8.3      3.7
Administrative expenses as
% of average total assets        0.32         0.37         0.34        0.78      0.66
Book value as % of par            172.9        198.2        128.7       141.5    134.5
Dividend payout ratio              49.9         bl./         b2.8        53.9     n.a.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 2
5.  Financial Position (Won million)                                                     1st qtr
1978       1979       1980      1981 /a    1982
Total assets                            164 365   209,205   425,988   612,377   653 720
Of which total loan portfolio         142,571   184,491   353,498   508,366   428,197
Long-term debt                          139,526   179,672   330,848   489,970   455,176
Equity                                   17,292    19,819    64,373    70 740    67,239
Current ratio                               1.5        1.5         1.7        1.5        1.5
Long-term debt/equity ratio                 8.1        9.1        5.2         7.0        4.6
Reserves and provisions as % of
loan portfolio                            6.6        6.8        5.1       5.2.        4.2
6.  Status of IBRD Loans as of September 30 1982 (in US$ '000)
Date       Date      Rate of   Onlend-       Loan                 Dis-    Out-
Loan no.    signed   effective  interest  ing rate   amount  Committed  bursed  stand-
1635-KO    12/07/78   02/06/79    7.35          9.35    100,000   99,683        99,633  79,550
1932-KO    01/14/81   03/19/81       9.25          /b     90,000   62,888       51,350  47,100
/a Net of cancellation.
/b Two percent above the weighted average cost of official borrowings.



-81 -                                 ANNEX 7
Table 3
Page 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Basic Data of Participating Financial Institutions
The Citizens National Bank
1. Year of Establishment: 1962
Paid-in share capital
2.  Ownership: (As of 8/31/82)                   Won million   Percent
Government of Korea                          24,676.4       65.6
Commercial banks                             12,879.7       34.2
Others                                           67.2        0.2
Total                                  37,623.3      100.0
3.  Operations (Won million):                                                          1st qtr
1978     1979      1980       1981      1982
Approvals
Working capital loans               152,463  180,269  282,132    335,949        68,520
Equipment loans
Domestic currency                  17,093   19,903   17,384       27,917       4,720
Foreign currency                        -       850    4,554      11,050       3,515
Total Business Loans             169,556  201,022  304,070    374,916        76,755
General populace loans              170,984  200,325  306,144    508,026    205,520
Total Approvals                  340,540  401,347  610,214    882,942    282,275
Outstanding
Working capital loans               205,429  283,654  415,286    511,646    513,747
Equipment loans
Domestic currency                  32,285   37,209   36,487       47,803      48,574
Foreign currency                        -         -    1,808      11,075      13,413
Total Business Loans             237,714  320,863  453,581    570,524    575,743
General populace loans              196,261  246,375  385,363    628,094    749,060
Total Outstanding                433,975  567,238  838,944  1,198,618  1,324,794
4. Earnings Record (percentages):
Net income as % of average equity         20.6      8.8      34.9        14.8       23.8
Financial expenses as % of average
total assets                            8.6       9.3      11.5        12.3       10.3
Administrative expenses as % of
average total assets                    3.7       4.1       3.8        4.0         3.4



- 82 -                                 ANNEX 7
Table 3
Page 2
5.  Financial Position (Won million):                                                   lst qtr
1978       1979       1980        1981        1982
Total assets                         868,792  1,177,303  1,501,084  2,019,784  2,430,361
Of which total loan portfolio   433,975    567,238    838,944  1,198,617  1,547,733
Long-term debt                       267,577    232,056    290,921    411,718    495,507
Equity                                11,076      37,295      46,510      53,769     45,751
Current ratio                           1.20        1.13        1.11        1.11        1.10
Long-term debt/equity ratio /a          24.2         6.2         6.3         4.7         6.6
Reserves and provisions as x of
loan portfolio                        1.60        1.70       2.40         2.4        1.98
6.  Status of IBRD Loans as of September 30 1982 (in USS '000)
Date       Date     Rate of   Onlend-    Loan                   Dis-     Out-
Loan no.  signed   effective  interest  ing rate  amount  Committed  bursed  standing
1829-KO  05/07/80  08/06/80       8.25       10.25   30,000    26,913    19,217   17,840
2144-KO  05/24/82  08/24/82    11.60         13.60   30,000           0          0        0
/a After excluding current maturities.



KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Machinery Industries and the Manufacturing Sector
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of Proposed Bank Loan /a
(9 000)
Consolidated
IBRD                      SMIPC                                SMIB                                 KLB                                 CNB                    (SMIPC, SMIB, KLB and CNB)
fiscal year       Commitment    Disbursement          Commitment    Disbursement          Commitment    Disbursement          Commitment    Disbursement          Commitment    Disbursement
and quarter      Amount   % /b  Amount   t /b    Amount   % /b  Amount   X /b    Amount   X /b  Amount   % /b    Amount   X /b  Amount   % /b    Amount   X /b  Amount   % lb
FY83
JanrMar 1983         825    /.b           -                -    -          -    -             -    -           -    -             -    -           -    -           825    1.2         -    -
Apr-Jun 1983         825   1J.0       821    /.5      2,500    8.6   1,000    3.4         2,000   10.0         -    -         1,500   15.0         -    _         6,825   10.9   1,825    2.6
Subtotal       1,650   15.0       825    7.5       2,500    8.6        o      3.4      2,000   10.0         -    -         1,500   15.0              -                  1U.9             2.6
FY84
Jul-Sep 1983         825   22.5      825   15.0       2,500   17.2   2,500   i2.1         2,500   22.5         -    -         1,500   30.0   1,500   15.0         7,325   21.4   4,825    9.5
Oct-Dec 1983         825   30.0       825   22.5      3,000   27.6   2,500   20.7         2,500   35.0   2,000   10.0         1,500   45.0   1,500   30.0         7,825   32.6   6,825   19.3
Jan-Mar 1984       1,375   42.5       825   30.0      3,000   37.9   3,000   31.0         2,500   47.5   2,500   22.5         1,500   60.0   1,500   45.0         8,375   44.5   7,825   30.4             1
Apr-Jun 1984       1,375   11.0   1,375   42.5         1,000   55.2   3,000   41.4        2,500   60.0   2,500   35.0         1,500   75.0   1,500   60.0    10,375   59.4   8,375   42.4                 C
Subtotal       4,400   55.0   3,850   42.5    13,500   55.2  11,000   41.4    10,000   60.0   7,000   35.0                 6,000   /5.u   6,UU0   60.0    33,900   59.4  27,850   42.4
FY85
Jul-Sep 1984       1,3/1   bI.1   1,3/b   b1.0        1,000   /Z.4   4,000   11.2         3,000   /5.0   2,500   47.5         1,000   90.0   1,000   70.0    10,375   74.2   8,875   55.1
Oct-Dec 1984       1,375   80.0   1,375   67.5        4,000   86.2   4,000   69.0         3,000   90.0   2,500   60.0         1,000  100.0   1,000   80.0         9,375   87.6   8,875   67.8
Janr-Mar 1985        150   8b.0   1,375   80.0        4,000  100.0   2,500   77.6         2,000  100.0   2,000   70.0           500  100.0       500   85.0       7,050   97.6   6,375   76.9
Apr-Jun 1985         550   90.0       550   85.0           -    -      2,500   86.2           -    -       2,000   80.0           -    -         100   90.0         550   98.4   5,550   84.8
Subtotal       J,8b0   90.0   4,675   85.0    13,000  100.0  13,000   86.2             8,000   0.0   9,00U   80.0          2,500  100.0   3,000   90.0    27,350   98.4  29,b/,  84.8
FY86
Jul-Sep 1985         550   95.0       550   90.0           -    -      2,000   93.1           -    -       2,000   90.0           -    -         250   92.5         550   99.2   4,800   91.6
Oct-Dec 1985         550  100.0       550   95.0           -    -      1,000   96.6           -    -       1,000   95.0           -    -         250   95.0         150  100.0   2,800   95.6
JarrMar 1986           -    -         275   97.5           -    -        500   98.3           -    -         500   97.5           -    -         250   97.5           -    -       1,525   97.8
Apr-Jun 1986           -    -         275  100.0           -    -        500  100.0           -    -         500  100.0           -    -         250  100.0           -    -       1,525  100.0
Subtotal       1,100  100.0   1,650  100.0             -    -       4,000  100.0           -    -       4,000  1UU.u           -    -      1,000  100.0        1,100  100.0  10,650  100.0
Total         11,000  100.0  11,000  100.0    29,000  100.0  29,uuu  100.0    20,000  100.0  20,00   100.0                        100.0  10,000  10O.0    70,000  100.0  70,000  100.0
/a  Assuming loan would become effective during third quarter of FY83.
/b Percentages are cumulative.
AEPID
September 7, 1982
xe



- 84 -
ANNEX 9
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
1. Projected Demand for Engineering Products by Major Categories
2. Priority Areas of Technical Assistance (Review by Consultant)
3. Major Institutions for Delivering Technical Assistance
4. Priority Areas of Training and Institutional Arrangement for
Providing Such Training
5. Summary Write-ups on the Participating Financial Institutions:
With three sections, one each on KLB, SMIB, and CNB.
6. Feasibility Study of the Central Supply Services (KOPTEC)
7. Extension Service Study (MCI)
8.  Review of Extension Service Study (by Consultant)
9. SMIPC's Operational Projections
10. Major Policy Issues of Relevance to the Machinery Industries



KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Small and MmdIum Industry Promotion Cnrpnrat-on
Organization Chart
[Xww Ch.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                               R                        I I <   r L  TI OX                                    X 
EEATTRTENT          DePARTMe:T               SERVICE                S=EVICE          DRPARTMENT CI       DEPARTRENT  I                    D.TA PROEESDING                                 DEPRATENT
REPARTMENT 11          DEPARTTENT I                l                  l                          DEPARTMENT
V            S    A       S    V      -                  -      C              0     u      5                   o    ri
Snds   AE Ex   Ad Fc                                     0ADV                                                               D     RD                                  S 6
EZ0                                     RR r d                N            A           53 G
DRpuss E.                    Z C A E T C ZIiA                              DRIll                           n           o     a                                RD    SD                                       D
C ~~  A3 C             S ~H    R                  ACTuD5  DIL H                                                                                                         V              
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~D                        5                          A           A                         R       ~     N      I     V     n                     D    2A5Z                                             D ~        



