Document of
The World Bank                               FLE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3407-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
November 15, 1982
LThis domment bas a restuided distibudlon and may be used by reejpikets oW in the perNegaggam  l
thdr officia duies. Us cok"m may no oherwise be duzhned- witbNt World BsDk- uGb!



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korea Won
US$1         = Won 740
WI           =  US$0.00135
Wl million       US$1,351
Wl billion       US$1.35 million
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Korea                      January 1 - December 31
Small and Medium Industry Promotion    January 1 - December 31
Corporation
Small and Medium Industry Bank          January 1 - December 31
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank              January 1 - December 31
Citizens National Bank                  January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOK          -  Bank of Korea
CNB          -  Citizens National Bank
DFC          -  Development Finance Company
EPB          -  Economic Planning Board
KDB          -  Korea Development Bank
KLB          -  Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KOPTEC       -  Korea Production Technology Corporation
KTAC         -  Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC         -  Korea Technology Development Corporation
MCI          -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF          -  Ministry of Finance
MOST         -  Ministry of Science and Technology
NIF          -  National Investment Fund
PROTIP       -  Production Technology Improvement Program
R&D          -  Research and Development
SAL          -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SMI          -  Small and Medium Industries
SMIB         -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC        -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF        -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
TA           -  Technical Assistance
TOR          -  Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Republic of Korea.
Be_eficiaries:      Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC),
the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), the Korea
Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) and the Citizens National
Bank (CNB).
Amount:             US$70 million equivalent.
Terms:              The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. US$11 million equivalent
of the loan would be allocated to SMIPC and would have a
term of 14 years including 3 years of grace; US$59
million equivalent would be allocated to SMIB, KLB and
CNB, and would have amortization schedules conforming
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to the specific investment projects
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan by each
of the three Development Finance Companies (DFCs). The
maximum repayment period of the portion of the loan
allocated to the DFCs would be 14 years including three
years of grace.
Relending Terms:   The Republic of Korea would relend the Bank loan proceeds
on the same terms as the Bank loan in accordance with the
terms of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the
Bank as follows: US$11 million equivalent to SMIPC for
technical assistance and training purposes; and US$29
*                             million equivalent to SMIB, US$20 million equivalent to
KLB, and US$10 million equivalent to CNB respectively, for
relending to small and medium machinery enterprises. The
DFCs would relend the proceeds of the loan to
subborrowers at a variable interest rate of 2% above the
effective rate of the Bank loan for a maximum maturity of
12 years including a maximum of three years of grace.
The foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks on
SMIPC's portion would be borne by SMIPC, whereas the
foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks on the
credit component would be passed on to subborrowers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Project
Description:      The proposed project provides a basis for improving the
sectoral policies affecting the machinery industry sector,
supports upgrading their technological capabilities, and
provides credit for financing productive investments in
the sector. It would consist of:
(a) Technical Assistance: Institutional development for
SMIPC to assist it in providing technical assistance
to small and medium machinery producers to upgrade
their skills and to improve their productivity in
using existing technology at the plant level;
(b)  Training:  On-the-job training for top managers, engi-
neers, middle managers and foremen in small and medium
machinery enterprises to be provided by SMIPC and by
other institutions through arrangements made by
SMIPC; and
(c) Credit. Lines of credit to SMIB, KLB and CNB,
respectively, to finance the investment requirements
of the small and medium machinery industry.
About 660 individual enterprises would receive technical
assistance under the project and about 3,300 managers,
engineers and supervisors would be trained in manufactur-
ing processes and management techniques. The participating
DFCs are expected to finance about 100-150 subprojects,
some of which would also be recipients of technical
assistance under the project.
There are two risks associated with this project. First,
there are institutional risks that SMIPC's Production
Technology Improvement Program (PROTIP) activities would
not prove effective for the provision of technical
assistance to the machinery industry and that SMIPC would
not properly coordinate the provision of training and
technical assistance to the machinery industry. Second,
there are risks that the credit component would disburse
more slowly than expected due to the recent reductions in
domestic interest rates below foreign exchange lending
rates. The institutional risks would be minimized
through substantial support to be provided to SMIPC by
consultants, and because SMIPC has already appointed a
capable director to oversee its PROTIP activities.
Furthermore, several provisions have been included in the
project to strengthen SMIPC's institutional capabilities.
Finally, the disbursement risks are mitigated by the fact
that the Government has issued rules that require that
only foreign exchange loans can be used to finance the
importation of foreign equipment and the demand of the



- iii -
machinery industry for imported equipment is likely to
far exceed the credit f inancing provided for under the
proposed loan.  Moreover, the Government expects the
discrepancy between foreign and local interest rates to
be temporary.
Estimated Project
Cost:                                             Local      Foreign      Total
---  - $ million --------
Technical assistance             3.0         8.4        11.4
Training                         1.4         0.7         2.1
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.2         0.5          0.7
Price                          1.8         1.4         3.2
Technical Assistance
and Training                6.4        11.0        17.4
Credit                         43.4         59.0       102.4
Total Project Costs          49.8         70.0       119.8
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Foreign       Total
------- $ million --------
SMIPC                           6.4          -           6.4
DFCs                            43.4         -          43.4
Bank Loan                        -          70.0        70.0
Total Sources of Financing 49.8          70.0        119.8
Es timated
Disbursements:                     Bank FY      1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual                         1.8    27.9    29.7    10.6
Cumulative                    1.8    29.7    59.4    70.0
Staff Appraisal
Rteport:          No. 3871-KO, dated November 10, 1982



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of US$70 million for a
Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project. The loan would be made at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.  US$11 million equivalent of the
loan would be allocated to the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) and would have a term of 14 years including 3 years of
grace; US$59 million equivalent would be allocated to the Small and Medium
Industry Bank (SMIB), the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) and the Citizens
Natjional Bank (CNB) and would have amortization schedules conforming
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to
the specific investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan by each of the three Development Finance Companies (DFCs).
The maximum repayment period of the portion of the loan allocated to the
DFCs; would be 14 years including three years of grace. The Government would
reletnd the Bank loan proceeds to SMIPC, SMIB, KLB and CNB on the same terms
as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in August 1982. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing countries,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments financed
almost entirely through foreign grants. By the early 80s she had become a
semi-industrial, middle-income country with a fairly strong external payments
position. During 1960-81 GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and per capita income more
*        than tripled in real terms.  The share of the manufacturing sector in GNP
rose from 14% to 29.5% while the share of agriculture fell from 36% to 18%.
Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, accounted for almost
41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture. By 1981, employment in this sector
had iallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 20% of the econo-
mically active population. Heavy migration from the rural areas to the



cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the agricul-
tural terms of trade and a steady increase in agricultural value added
helped to ensure a growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy through the first half of the 70s. There are
indications of some deterioration in the income share of the rural population
in the last four years, but Korea still compares favourably with most
countries, the ratio of the population below the poverty line in the rural
sector having declined from 40% in the early sixties to 11% in the late 70s.
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        A number of measures enabled Korea to not only surmount the first
oil crisis which raised the cost of imported fuel by US$700 million within a
matter of a year, but also to average a growth rate of 10% between 1973 and
1978. These included, increased borrowing from abroad, combined with a
devaluation of the currency, export diversification in products as well as
markets and an increase in public sector savings. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18%
between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a
rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit
which was made available to the heavy and chemical industries by the
financial system under the Government's direction, brought about an
excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand while
the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level, had
a dampening effect on the expansion of exports.
6.        To tackle these problems, the Government announced, in April 1979,
a far-reaching program of stabilization-cum-restructuring, but the program
was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in
1979 and 1980 raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about US$2.3 billion
in 1978 to US$6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the midsixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning
to normal only after the ascendancy of a new Administration under President
Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top of these developments, the
unfavorable weather resulted in a drop in agricultural output of about 22%
in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 15% decline in investment led to a
worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be offset by the 10%
growth of export volume. As a result GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment
increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29% in spite of a 5%
cut in real wages.



- 3 -
7.        The reduction in wages resulted primarily from the Government's
income policy which along with the 26.7% devaluation of the won vis-a-vis
the IJS dollar, were the two most important measures introduced in 1980 to
stabilize the domestic economy and promote external adjustment. With the
won depreciating by a further 12% in 1981 and real wages decreasing almost
4%, the effects of these policies on the adjustment process have been very
positive, although recovery has been less rapid than after the first oil
shock. Export volume increased by another 19% in 1981 and together with
only moderate real import growth (5%) reduced the current account deficit
from US$5.3 billion in 1980 (10% of GNP) to US$4.4 billion (7% of GNP). At
the same time, on a year-end basis, inflation was a little over 12% compared
to 29% in 1980 and GNP grew by 7.1%, although some 3% of this reflected a
recovery of agricultural production. Inflationary pressures continued to
subside through the first nine months of 1982 and the current account BOP
deficit which was forecast at US$4.4 billion, has been revised downwards to
US$1.8 billion, about 2.7% of GNP. This is partly because of a 3%
improvement in the terms of trade, a reduction of oil imports due to
conservation measures, and slower than anticipated growth in GNP.
8.        the Government's original GNP growth target of 7% for 1982 has
been reduced by 1%, and actual growth may not exceed 5%. Employment growth
in this period also slowed to 1.4% p.a., with all the job creation being
outside agriculture and manufacturing. With capacity utilization in the
manufacturing sector averaging 70% and the interest burden having risen,
there has been a persistent deterioration in the financial position of
enterprises. The ratio of net profits to sales decreased from 2.2% in 1978
to -0.7% in 1981, and the ratio of financial expenses to net sales rose from
4.8% to 8%.
Recent Reflationary Measures
9.        In mid-1982, the Government encouraged by the imporvement in the
balance of payments and the fall in inflation through the first half of the
year, introduced measures to spur economic activity and improve both the
liquidity as well as the profitability of enterprises. These measures are
aimed at stimulating aggregate demand and strengthening the liquidity of
firms. The liquidity and profitability of manufacturing is to be raised by
means of a 4% cut in interest rates introduced in July 1982 and a 15%
reduction in corporate taxes planned for 1983. These changes are also
likely to have a favorable influence on investment. However given the h
eavy reliance of the Korean economy on trade, a full recovery also requires
a resurgence of export demand, which, given the economic climate in the OECD
countries, is likely to be slow in materializing. Thus, both growth and
trade prospects over the next twelve months remain somewhat uncertain. With
money supply increasing at 30% p.a., Korean planners will have to be very
vigilant so as to ensure that the increase in consumer prices estimated at
7% in 1982, does not surge back to double digit levels.



-4-
Medium-Term Prospects
10.       It is in this environment of uncertainty that Korea's Fifth Five
Year Plan covering the years 1982-86 has been launched. The basic objectives
of the Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization, (c)
establishment of an internationally competitive industrial structure, (d)
promotion of the market mechanism, (e) liberalization of the financial sector,
and (f) expansion of social development expenditure. The goal of price
stabilization is to be pursued mainly through fiscal discipline, a prudent
monetary policy and monitoring of wage contracts. Export promotion efforts
will be helped by price stability and a flexible exchange rate policy as well
as by quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve price
competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the Plan
period will be the reduction of the Government's role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left increasingly
to the initiative of the private sector with the Government providing only
the general framework. To promote the market mechanism, the Government has
started a program for liberalization of the financial sector, including
denationalization of the commercial banks. However, the pace of this program
is likely to be slowed by the continuing sluggishness of the economy which
has exacerbated the weaknesses of the corporate sector. The Plan also pro-
poses that relatively more Government resources will be allocated to meet
the "basic needs" of people such as education, housing, social security and
improved sanitation and water supply. The basic strategy of the Fifth Plan,
which is to expedite structural adjustment and make greater use of market
forces, is sound, but the transition is going to be difficult and the growth
target of 7.6% p.a. might not be achieved. In any case, during the 80s Korea
will have to adjust to a lower growth rate than in the past two decades and
find ways of increasing the employment intensity of its growth to keep
unemployment rates at acceptable levels. The projected export growth of 11%
does not appear unreasonable in terms of the country's past performance, but
the near-term prospects are less favourable than assumed in the Plan.
Consequently, the realization of export projections for the Plan period will
depend on the success of policies to improve export competitiveness.
11.       External Resource Balance.  As discussed above, provided appropriate
policies are followed and world trade expands as projected, an increase in
total exports to the extent projected under the Plan, does not appear
unrealistic. The projected reduction in import elasticities is also
consistent with the import liberalization program, provided the energy
efficiency and oil substitution programs are implemented as planned and
appropriate exchange rate policies are followed. In the area of invisibles,
an important factor is the Plan projection of a significant reduction in
international interest rates in nominal as well as real terms; this
expectation is broadly consistent with the forecasts made by the World Bank
and the IMF. The gross borrowing program envisaged in the Plan (about $9
billion p.a.), though large in absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of



- 5 -
availability and prudent in terms of Korea's debt service capacity, provided
export projections are realized./l With the projected level of borrowings,
Korea's external debt as a ratio of GNP would decline from about 50% at
present to about 45% in 1986. If the Plan expectation of a decline in
interest rates materializes and the export projections are realized, the
total debt-service ratio (including interest payments on short-term debt)
would decline from about 20% of exports in 1981 to 14% in 1986, which is
considerably lower than the debt service ratio projected for other non-oil
developing as well as newly industrializing countries.  However, in relation
to GNP, Korea's debt-service burden is high and there are risks with regard
to the availability and cost of external capital over the next few years.
Thus it is desirable to assure that the current account deficit does not
exceed the 3% of GDP p.a. projected in the Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1982, Korea had received 62 Bank Loans
(inc:luding one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling UJSS3,765
million in loans and USS106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
Loan). As of that date, US$1,045.61 million remained undisbursed on
effective Loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As
indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays which have occurred in a number of
projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - due primarily to
shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting from cost
overruns during a period of high domestic inflation are being addressed.
The problem was reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the Government
subsequently took measures to increase local funding of Bank financed
projects. As the Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight,
the status and plans for counterpart contributions would remain an integral
part of country implementation reviews held jointly with the Government.
Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains
the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Kcorea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
/1  The significant recent improvement of the balance of payment, discussed
in paragraph 8 above, which is in part stuctural, is likely to reduce
the borrowing requirements and improve the results of the subsequent
analysis.



-6-
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received US$410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, US$352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, US$205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and
the Citizens National Bank US$60 million to meet the financial needs of the
small enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
15.       In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
effort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronic
Technology Project (Loan 1676-K0), approved in March 1979, provided the Korea
Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated facilities to
enable it to undertake production-oriented development work, and financed an
R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the electronics industry.
In March 1982, the Bank approved a US$50 million loan to the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) whose main objectives are to
accelerate advanced foreign technology imports and support in-house research
development and engineering. These previous Bank activities, together with
the Bank support for the proposed project, reflect the priority which the
Government and the Bank attach to the improvement of the technological level
of industry in Korea.
16.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of industri-
alization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back to 1962,
has played an important role in these developments. Financing of US$432
million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
UJS$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to US$147.0 million have been provided
for the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
17.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad



objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
18.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural sec-
tor, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial sphere,
is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural output
grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country becoming
nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a steady
and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of Korea's
population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian pursuits
for their livelihood. The Bank has lent US$375.5 million for the improvement
of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the provision of
agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural products. In
addition, US$155.0 million has been provided for two rural infrastructure
projects in support of the Government's rural development program, initiated
in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living in the
rural areas. In 1979, a JS$125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water
in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage;
and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's
power system.
19.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of US$65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loan
for US$90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
20.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures described in Part I above. Some of the most important of these
measures are incorporated into a structural adjustment program for which a
US$250 million structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1981.
21.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
22.       As discussed in Part I above, Korea's growth strategy has been based
on the expansion of industrial activity with emphasis on the promotion of



-8_
manufactured exports. In 1965, commodity exports totalled a mere US$181
million, of which manufactured exports accounted for just over half. By 
1981, commodity exports had reached US$21.3 billion, more than 90% of which
consisted of manufactures. Although Korea's export pattern has continued to
display a high degree of reliance on a few labor-intensive traditional
exports (textiles, clothing, footwear, plywood and certain miscellaneous
manufactures), there has also been a discernible movement toward more
sophisticated skill-intensive products. Items such as electrical machinery,
machine tools, electronic goods and components, and ships have been added to
Korea's range of exports. The transition from labor-intensive manufactures
towards products requiring higher levels of technology and labor skills,
however, has been pursued too abruptly and has led to overinvestment in
heavy and chemical industries at the expense of the light manufacturing
sector. With overinvestment in heavy industries, demand for skilled labor
has sharply increased and the consequent increase in labor costs has
outpaced productivity gains. Shortages of skilled labor, high rates of
labor turnover and rising labor costs combined with underinvestment
adversely affected productivity levels and technology absorption in the
small and medium industry (SMI) sector, including small and medium machinery
industries, and have resulted in the erosion of SMI firms' domestic as well
as international competitiveness.
The Machinery Industries
23.       The machinery industries subsector, defined as firms engaged in
the "manufacture of fabricated metal products, machinery and equipment,"
accounted for only 13% of manufacturing value added and 11% of manufacturing
exports in 1972. During the period 1972-80, the volume of output of the sub
sector grew at an annual rate of 37% compared with 19% for the manufacturing
sector as a whole and by 1980 the subsector accounted for 22% of manufactur-
ing value added and 21% of manufacturing exports. In terms of size distribu
tion, small and medium machinery producers (generally defined in various law
and decrees as enterprises having either less than W 500 million in assets
or less than 300 employees) accounted for 94% of enterprises, 38% of employ-
ment, 24% of gross output and 28% of value added of the machinery subsector
in 1980. The Government's Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) places emphasis
on continued rapid expansion of the manufacturing sector. The Plan calls
for increases in machinery exports from US$3.5 billion in 1980 to US$17.3
billion in 1986, when exports of machinery are expected to account for more
than 32% of total exports, compared with about 20% in 1980. These ambitious
targets will be difficult to achieve, but are indicative of the key role the
Government has assigned to machinery industries in Korea's future economic
growth.
24.       The recent economic recession has highlighted the structural
imbalances and inherent weaknesses in the technical and technological capa-
city of the machinery subsector. For the large heavy machinery producers,
the recession closely followed and exacerbated the problems created by the
massive expansion program fostered by generous Government financial and taxa-
tion benefits. This expansion resulted in the creation of capacity consider-
ably in excess of market size, and consequently, capacity utilization rates



-9-
have been extremely low. Excess capacity has not been a major problem for
most small and medium machinery producers, however, largely because of the
constraints they faced in obtaining resources for upgrading or expansion of
facilities during the 1970s. Nevertheless, they face serious technical and
managerial difficulties (in areas such as choice of equipment, operating
practices, labor training, product quality and level of absorption of techni-
cal know-how, etc.) which must be overcome if they are to play the key role
envisaged for them in Korea's industrial development strategy. Unless these
are resolved, Korea will have difficulty progressing beyond exporting rela-
tively simple, standardized but low value added machinery products for which
prospects for continued rapid export expansion appear limited, and domestic
industry will have to continue to rely heavily on imported machinery and
equipment.
Policy Issues
25.       The Government has recognized these problems and has instituted a
number of policy adjustments. In a Letter of Development Policy for 1982-86,
which provided the basis for the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) of US$250 million to Korea (Loan No. 2071-KO, approved December 17,
1981), the Government outlined a structural adjustment program which
included the following measures related to the manufacturing sector: a
comprehensive review of industrial incentives and protection policies with
the aim of developing policies for promoting more competitive conditions and
reducing the role of Government in directing resource allocation;
development of programs for restructuring and consolidation of large
industries currently suffering from substantial excess capacity; and the
strengthening of project appraisal capacity in Government agencies and key
financial institutions for the better evaluation of major projects.
26.       The Government has submitted to the Bank a Letter of Development
Po]Licy for the Machinery Industries which summarizes the various policies
and proposed courses of action in the areas discussed below to the extent
they apply specifically to the machinery subsector. While the reforms in
the financial, trade, and investment policies, are essential to the long-run
efficient development of the machinery industries, the explicit attention to
improving operating efficiency to be provided by this project would yield
immediate positive results.
(a)  Financial Policies.  The Government has initiated action under
Loan No. 1932-Ko approved December 24, 1981 (8th KDB Project) and
Loan No. 1933-Ko approved December 24, 1981 (KLB Project) to limit
the scope of directed lending. Plans are also underway to expand
the operations of Korea EXIM Bank to enable it to provide suppliers
credits for machinery exports, on terms comparable to those avail-
able to overseas machinery exporters. The Government has also
taken a number of steps to increase the access of small and medium
scale entreprenuers to investment credit.



- 10 -
(b) Technology Development Policies. Foreign direct investment has
been opened up across a much expanded range of industries and
minimum investment and conditions for foreign participation in
equity of local firms have been relaxed to foster accelerated
technological development. The import of foreign technology under
license also has been substantially liberalized. In addition, tax
and financial incentives for research and development (R&D) and
technology upgrading have been increased and the provision of
financial resources for local R&D and its commercialization has
been expanded.
(c) Extension Services and Technical Assistance. In the context of
the fourth loan (Loan No. 2004-Ko of May 26, 1981) to the Small
and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), the Government agreed to undertake
a review of the small-scale industry sector extension services
delivery system. On the basis of this review, the Government took
action in January 1982 to rationalize the system by reducing the
number of extension service agencies dealing with SMIs from 19 to
4, which now comprises the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) and three financial institutions: SMIB, Citi-
zens National Bank (CNB), and Korea Credit Guarantee Fund. The
Government's detailed action program based on its recent review
focusses on, among other things, establishing and monitoring
performance targets for the four extension agencies and improving
the services available from each agency.
(d) Protection Policies. Machinery industries appear to have been
given significant protection against imports. Although average
tariff protection (net of tariff exemptions) for these industries
is only about 10%, the proportion of machinery items on the
restricted list (i.e., which can be imported only if no similar
locally-produced item is available) is the highest among manufac-
turing industries (almost 50%, in 1981/82). The Government is
undertaking a detailed review of overall industrial incentives and
protection policies, giving priority to a review of the machinery
subsector, as part of the agreements reached under the SAL. A
report is to be submitted to the Bank by June 1983. Detailed
action programs for further import liberalization and tariff
reform for machinery industries would be formulated and discussed
with the Bank in the context of its ongoing program of structural
adjustment lending to Korea.
(e) Subcontracting Policies. Subcontracting is critical for efficient
development of the machinery industries since competitiveness of
large end-product producers, and the subsector as a whole, depend
heavily on the development of close working relationships with
suppliers of parts and components. Present Government policies
promote these relationships not only through the provision of
financial and technical assistance to subcontractors, but also
through selection of subcontractors eligible for assistance and



- 11 -
pressures on large assemblers to subcontract to them. This
approach is contrary to the Government's policy to limit inter-
vention in the economy and to rely on market forces for economic
decisions and is detrimental to the efficient long-term develop-
ment of subcontractors. The Government has agreed under the SAL
to evaluate its subcontracting policies and procedures and to
review alternative policies to foster efficient subcontracting
arrangements. This review, which will form part of the SAL
related studies, will be completed by June 30, 1983. On the basis
of this review, a detailed program of action would be developed
and discussed with the Bank within the context of SAL.
The Bank's Role
27*.      In the past, the main thrust of the Bank's industrial lending
strategy for Korea has been to promote strong development finance companies
(DFCs) capable of acting as efficient financial intermediaries. Project Comr-
pLetion Reports on loans to the DFCs have concluded in each case that the
Bank's twin objectives of resource transfer and institution building vis-a-vis
these DFCs have been satisfactorily achieved. This conclusion is supported
by Project Performance Audit Reports. The significant maturity attained in
the Korean financial sector, partly as a result of the Bank's assistance in
sitrengthening institutional capabilities, coupled with the Government's
willingness to address directly industrial and financial sector issues, has
made it possible for the Bank to shift its lending objectives from
institution-specific issues to broader sectoral issues. This broad-based
approach will lead to reforms that ultimately improve the responsiveness of
the financial system to the requirements of Korean industry and will help
imnprove investment efficiency. As noted in para. 27, the Bank is supporting
the implementation of this strategy through the SAL and the recent loans to
KDB and KLB. The Bank is also assisting the establishment of new service
institutions for private industry, especially the more skill intensive
industrial enterprises which are expected to provide the main impetus for
export growth in the 1980s. In support of this latter objective, the Bank
approved a loan (No. 2112-KO) to the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) in March 1982 to help finance domestic RD&E projects originating from
private industry as well as the proposed project in support of SMIPC's
Production Technology Improvement Program (PROTIP). Furthermore, IFC has
recently made an investment (No. 628-KO approved March 10, 1982) in the Korea
Technology Advancement Corporation (KTAC), whose primary objective is commer-
cialization of production technology developed by the Korea Advanced Institute
of Technology. The future lending program provides for policy-based struc-
tural adjustment lending, lending to the financial sector and lending to
improve the technological capabilities of the Korean economy.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
28.       Strong institutional support for the development of the machinery
industries was originally recommended in the Bank's Sector Report (Report
No. 2130-KO dated March 19, 1979) on the machinery industries, which was
undertaken by the Bank at the request of the Government. As a result, the
Government completed in early 1981, a report entitled "A Study on Small and
Medium Machinery Project" which identified the problems of the machinery
industry. As no existing agency was particularly well-suited then to meet
the specialized technical assistance needs of the machinery industry sector,
the Government established the Korea Production Technology Corporation
(KOPTEC) in 1981 for this purpose. The project was appraised in January/
February 1982 with KOPTEC as executing agency. However, the Government
decided in May 1982 to consolidate further the provision of extension servi-
ces to the small and medium industry sector by merging KOPTEC into SMIPC. A
post-appraisal mission visited Korea in June 1982 and determined that the
original objectives of the project were not adversely affected by the merger
and that in fact, the consolidation will contribute to better overall coordi-
nation of extension services in Korea. Discussions and negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. between September 27 and 30, 1982. The Korean
delegation was led by Mr. Lee, Hwan-Kyun, Director of the Economic Cooperation
Division, International Finance Bureau, Ministry of Finance. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - The Small and Medium Machinery Industry
Project" (No. 3871-KO), dated November 10, 1982, is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
29.       The proposed project addresses the sectoral policies affecting the
machinery industry and would help strengthen the institutional framework for
providing technical assistance to small and medium machinery enterprises
between 1983-86. It would upgrade the technology, production practices and
efficiency of the small and medium machinery enterprises by financing
investments for the establishment, modernization and balancing of machinery
enterprises and equipment, and upgrading of production skills. Specifically,
the project would consist of:
(a) Technical Assistance: Institutional development for SMIPC to
assist it in providing technical assistance to about 660 small
and medium machinery producers, to upgrade their skills and to
improve their productivity in using existing technology at the
plant level in selected technical areas such as metal cutting
and forming, forging, casting, heat and surface treatment,
welding, dyeing and finishing;
(b) Training. On-the-job training for an estimated 3,300 top
managers, engineers, middle managers, and foremen in



- 13 -
small and medium machinery enterprises in such general areas
as industrial safety, quality control, plant layout and standard
machine tool usage and specialized areas such as tool-and-die-
making, gauge design, and heat treatment;
(c) Credit. Lines of credit to SMIB, KLB and CNB, respectively,
to finance the investment requirements of the small and medium
machinery industries.
Project Implementation
30.       The technical assistance and training components of the project
would be implemented by SMIPC, which has selected the technical areas menr-
tioned above for special attention, in addition to providing general assis-
tance pertaining to industrial engineering and manufacturing management.
SMIPC would draw heavily on both foreign and domestic experts to provide
services to individual enterprises. Substantial reliance on foreign experts
will initially be necessary since there is at present limited capability
within Korea itself to provide highly specialized expertise in many of these
fields. Local consultants will, however, also be used in those cases where
the appropriate expertise is available in Korea. SMIPC's longer-term objec-
tive is to develop Korean skills that will substantially decrease the need
for expatriate specialists, through the training of domestic counterparts as
an integral part of every expatriate specialist's terms of reference. SMIPC
staff would also be trained in overseas institutions to build up their tech-
niLcal capabilities. To implement the training component, SMIPC will assign
staff to its Extension Service Department II to coordinate training with the
technical assistance being provided. Expatriate specialists, in collabora-
tion with staff in the training unit, would identify specific training needs
associated with the technological/managerial improvements proposed for a
fLrm. SMIPC will provide training either at its own specialized facilities
at Banwohl, or would utilize those of other agencies in Korea or overseas.
31.       The credit component would be implemented by the three participa-
ting DFCs, namely, SMIB, KLB and CNB. Each of the DFCs has had extensive
relationships with the Bank and has experience with lending to the machinery
industries. The Bank considers them fully competent to carry out their res-
ponsibilities under the proposed project. Under this project, each of the
DFCs would consult with SMIPC on the more specialized aspects of technical
assistance. As SMIPC would need time to build up the size of its clientele,
the initial overlap between SMIPC's clients and those of the financial insti-
tutions would be small; but it is expected that such an overlap would
increase significantly toward the end of project implementation. Agreement
has been reached that SMIPC and the DFCs, together with appropriate represenr-
tatives from the Government, would form a coordination council which would
periodically review the implementation of the project and report to the Bank
annually, commencing December 1983, assessing the coordination by SMIPC and
the DFCs, in the provision of technical assistance and credit (Sections 3.03
of the draft Loan Agreement; 2.08 of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement, and
2.10 of the draft DFC Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC)
32.       SMIPC was established by the Government in January 1979, under the
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Act, as an autonomous public corporation
to carry out a wide range of financial and technical assistance programs for
SMIs in Korea. SMIPC has responsibility for administering the Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF). Major SMIPF programs include, among
others, the provision of: (i) financial assistance (through financial insti-
tutions, primarily SMIB) and field services to support modernization plans
of SMIs and SMI cooperatives, including modernization of folk art and crafts
manufacturers and leasing of equipment; (ii) industrial extension services
to upgrade management and technology capabilities of SMIs; (iii) training
for SMI managerial and technical staff and extension workers; and (iv) col-
lection, analysis, and dissemination of business and technical information
for SMIs. In 1981, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) extended to SMIPC a
US$13.0 million loan to construct and support the institutional development of
the Training Institute in Banwohl. Project implementation has progressed
satisfactorily, and the first phase of the construction of the Training
Institute is expected to be completed in 1982. Training courses for
entrepreneurs and extension workers will be moved to Banwohl by end 1982,
and technical training courses, for which the workshop complex at Banwohl is
being built and equipped, will be moved to Banwohl in early 1984.
33.       Since its inception, SMIPC has assisted over 2,500 SMI enterprises
and has achieved a respectable record in its assistance activities. In May
1982, the Government delegated to SMIPC the additional responsibility for
activities previously undertaken by the Korea Production Technology Corpora-
tion (KOPTEC). SMIPC's role, its objectives and functions, policies and
procedures, and its relationships to other institutions servicing the
industry are elaborated in its Policy and Strategy Statements, which were
approved by SMIPC's Board of Policy in November 1982.
34.       Organization and Management.  The Board of Policy is the highest
decision-making body within SMIPC consisting of a Chairman and a maximum of
20 members. The Chairman is the President of SMIPC and is appointed by the
President of the Republic upon recommendation of the Minister of Commerce and
Industry (MCI). SMIPC's President is Dr. Chong-Yul Yoo, who has advanced
engineering degrees. His most recent post has been economic advisor in the
Office of the President of Korea. Other Board members are appointed by the
Minister of MCI from among Government agencies concerned, financial insti-
tutions, business associations, and private sector representatives who are
knowledgeable and experienced in the field of SMIs. There are seven private
sector and two academic representatives on SMIPC's Board, which is sufficient
at present to represent private sector views in SMIPC's operations. SMIPC
expects to increase further private sector representation on its Board of
Policy, especially from SMI machinery producers, when vacancies occur during
the next three years.
35.       The day-to-day operational activities of SMIPC are guided by the
President and four Directors of varied backgrounds who provide overall



- 15 -
guidance to SMIPC's eight departments. The Dean of the Training Institute is
the Director supervising the Training Department and the Training Administra-
t:ion Department. These Departments are responsible for programming and
implementation of training for the SMI sector. The Director of Extension
Services supervises the Extension Service Department I, which is responsible
for providing extension services for SMIs primarily with the assistance of
domestic consultants, and the Extension Service Department II, which
performs a similar function including PROTIP utilizing foreign consultants.
These organizational arrangements are temporary. SMIPC has agreed to
resorganize the Extension Service Departments by March 31, 1983 along
subsectoral lines with Department II focussing primarily on the machinery
industries and Department I focussing on priority industries other than
machineries (Section 3.05 of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement).
36.       As of June 1982, SMIPC had a staff of 312 including six executives
58 managers and deputy managers.  Of the total staff, 32 are in the Extensio
Service Department II which will be in charge of SMIPC's PROTIP activities.
Amnong the staff of Department II are 20 engineers all of whom have had sub-
stantial working experience either in government or private industry in the
areas in which PROTIP would concentrate. Nevertheless, SMIPC intends to
expand the staff in its Extension Service Departments as necessary to cope
with future workload. SMIPC has worked out a comprehensive five-year over-
seas training program of 2 to 6 months in order to upgrade its staff's
professional expertise and nontechnical skills such as foreign language and
consulting. SMIPC's pay scales are comparable to those of the Government
research institutes and banks but are higher than most Government agencies.
SMIPC has agreed to hire staff and carry out its staff training programs in
accordance with plans agreed with the Government and the Bank (Section 3.01
of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement).
37.       In the first 15 months of operations since the program's inception
in January 1981, PROTIP as administered by KOPTEC had assisted 119 firms in
the machinery industries and 15 firms in the textile industry. SMIPC,
through its Extension Service Department II, has been continuing KOPTEC's
P'ROTIP activities by providing technical assistance through its own staff
and foreign and domestic consultants. In order to conduct its rapidly
growing operations more effectively, SMIPC needs to retain a consultancy firm
to assist it in recruiting foreign experts with detailed terms of reference
for individual assignments, supervising the individual consultants' perform-
a'nce, training SMIPC staff in consultancy skills, coordinating training with
technical assistance, and monitoring benefits of the technical assistance
provided to firms. Terms of reference for such a consultancy firm were
finalized during negotiations, and SMIPC has agreed to hire a suitable con-
sultancy firm by March 31, 1983 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02(c) of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement). Training staff
will also be assigned to the Extension Service Department II by March 31,
1983 to coordinate training and technical assistance (Section 2.07 of the
draft SMIPC Project Agreement).



- 16 -
38.        Financial Prospects of SMIPC.  SMIPC's main income source stems
from revenues generated from financing activities using the proceeds of the
SMIPF, of which SMIPC is the implementing agency. Financing activities are
carried out by handling banks on SMIPC's account. Another major source of
income is SMIPC's activities from its leasing projects. SMIPC makes avail-
able production and testing equipment to small and medium industries on an
installment rental basis. SMIPC's revenues are expected to decline from W
12.2 billion in 1982 to W 9.4 billion in 1983 due primarily to a decrease in
revenues from cooperatives and thereafter would experience a steady growth
from W 11.9 billion in 1984 and W 17.9 billion in 1985 to W 52.3 billion in
1991. SMIPC is expected to incur losses through 1988. Losses would peak in
1984 at W 10.4 billion, but will steadily decrease thereafter until 1989
when SMIPC is expected to earn a modest profit of W 0.2 billion. SMIPCGs
major expense items stem from: extension services, training and leasing
project costs, and overhead. SMIPC's total annual fund requirements are
projected to increase from W 53 billion in 1982 to W 80 billion in 1985 and
to W 148 billion in 1991. The major source of SMIPC's funds is expected to
be Government budgetary contributions which are forecast to increase from
Won 24.9 billion in 1982 (including W 2.9 billion for PROTIP) to W 58.8 bil-
lion in 1987. The Government has agreed to exchange views annually with the
Bank on the level and timing of the Government's financial support to SMIPC
for the following year, taking into account SMIPC's financial prospects and
work program (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.        The primary reason for SMIPC's reliance on budgetary funding during
its early years of operations is the limited revenues being recovered from
SMIPC's extension service and training activities. For extension services
provided by its domestic consultants, SMIPC would not charge any fees between
1983-86, but would charge 10% of direct costs after 1986. For extension
services provided by foreign consultants, SMIPC would charge about 30% of
direct costs by 1986 and would increase the charge by 10% a year until it
reaches 80% in 1991. For training, SMIPC would charge 70% of direct costs
during 1983-86 and 80% of direct costs during 1987-91. For SMI staff train-
ing, SMIPC plans to charge 30% of direct costs during 1983-86 and 50% after
1986 (Section 3.04 of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement). Even though the
Government and SMIPC realize that SMIPC needs to charge for its services,
full cost recovery is not now feasible because SMIPC's PROTIP activities are
new and are directed at SMIs which are not yet accustomed to paying for
technical assistance. Full cost recovery would be feasible only after full
PROTIP benefits materialize and the SMI entrepreneurs adjust to paying for
technical assistance. SMIPC's cost recovery strategy is to increase base
charges gradually and differentiate charges using criteria such as an
enterprise's size, frequency of use, and ability to pay. These cost
recovery arrangements are considered satisfactory.
40.        SMIPC-s Auditor, appointed by the Minister of Commerce and Industry,
audits SMIPC-s financial accounts and operations and reports to the Minister
through the President of SMIPC. SMIPC-s financial statements are also exter-
nally audited by the Board of Audit and Inspection. In order to facilitate
the administration of the proposed loan and monitor the extent of Government



- 17 -
local currency support to the project, SMIPC has agreed to maintain a
separate account for the Extension Service Department II and to continue to
employ independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Sections 4.01 and 4.02
of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement).
41.       Participating DFCs.  The credit component would be implemented by
SMIB, KLB and CNB for relending to small and medium machinery enterprises.
All three institutions have borrowed substantial amounts from the Bank and
ADB and are performing well under ongoing projects.
(a)  SMIB is a Government-owned bank, incorporated under the Small and
Medium Industry Bank Act of 1961. In addition to term lending
and the extension of technical assistance, SMIB engages in a wide
range of commercial banking activities. SMIB's lending to
projects in the machinery sector accounted for 14% by number and
29% by amount of its total outstanding loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1981.
(b) KLB was established in 1967 as the Korea Development Finance
Corporation (KDFC) with the active support of the World Bank
Group as a joint venture between domestic and foreign investors
including IFC. In 1979 KDFC was converted into a Long-Term
Credit Bank. KLB's overall lending to projects in the machinery
sector irrespective of size accounted for 21% by number and 18%
by amount of its total outstanding loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1981.
(c) CNB was incorporated in December 1962 under the Citizens National
Bank Act as a broad-based financial institution which caters to
the financial needs of the general populace and small businesses
and attracts small household savings as part of a national effort
to mobilize domestic capital for economic development. CNB's
lending to projects in the machinery sector accounted for 9% by
number and 11% by amount of its total business loan portfolio
(including working capital loans) as of December 31, 1981.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
42.       Total project costs are estimated at $119.8 million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange cost of US$70 million. The estimated total costs
for the technical assistance and training components of the project amount
to US$17.5 million, including US$11.0 million in foreign exchange. The
estimates were derived from SMIPC's proposed PROTIP activities elaborated in
its operational plan and financial statements and based on the following
assumptions (in 1982 base prices): US$8,750 per man-month (inclusive of fees
and round-trip air tickets) for foreign consultants; US$1,750 per man-month
(fees only) for domestic consultants; training costs ranging from W 2,650
per trainee hour using Korean instructors to W 7,760 per trainee hour using
expatriates. Taxes are expected to be negligible. The cost estimates
include 5% physical contingencies to cover unforeseen technical assistance



- 18 -
and training needs and 24% price contingencies based on domestic and
international inflation rates in 1982-86. The cost of the credit component
is estimated at US$102.4 million equivalent, of which US$59.0 million
represents the foreign exchange costs.
43.       The Government would onlend US$11 million of the Bank loan of US$70
million to SMIPC to finance project-related technical assistance and
training in 1983-86. The Government would onlend the balance of US$59 million
to the three participating DFCs for the credit component and finance about
40% of their combined foreign exchange requirements of their machinery loan
commitments in 1983-85, and would be allocated as follows: US$29 million for
SMIB, US$20 million for KLB, and US$10 million for CNB. The balance of the
projected lending by the three DFCs for the machinery industries would be
met from their own resources, some of which may be borrowed from external
sources.
Features of the Proposed Loan
44.       The Bank loan would be relent to SMIPC and each of the three DFCs
in accordance with the terms of subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between the Government and each of SMIPC and the DFCs, satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.01(b&c) of the Loan Agreement). Ratification of the
subsidiary loan agreements would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The portion of the Bank loan
allocated to the technical assistance component would have a repayment term
of 14 years including three years of grace (Section 2.09(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The credit component would have an adjustable composite
amortization schedule, reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of
the subloans made by the DFCs, and would be fully repaid within 14 years,
including a grace period of 3 years (Section 2.09(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Individual subloans would have a maximum maturity of 12 years,
including a grace period of three years (Section 2.04(a) of the draft DFC
Project Agreement).
45.       The foreign exchange and variable interest risks on the portion of
the loan earmarked for SMIPC would be borne by SMIPC while subborrowers of
DFCs would bear the foreign exchange and variable interest risks for the
credit component (Section 4.03 of the draft DFC Project Agreement). The
participating DFCs would each relend the proceeds of the proposed loan at an
interest rate of 2% above its own effective borrowing cost including the
front-end fee, in line with the Government's guidelines and the general
practice of DFCs in Korea. Based on the current Bank lending rate of 11.4%
p.a., a frontend fee of 1.5%, and the 2% spread, the nominal relending rate
to subborrowers would be around 13.6% p.a. The 2% interest spread is
adequate to cover the cost incurred by the participating DFCs in processing
subloan applications and supervising subprojects. The interest rates on
subloans from proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be positive in real
terms. The interest rate under the project would be higher than the rates
on domestic currency loans currently at 10% for term loans. The domestic
interest rates are nevertheless positive in real terms compared with



- 19 -
projected inflation rates of 7%-8% during 1982-85. However, this divergence
between domestic and foreign interest rates is not expected to have a
significant adverse effect on the disbursement under the project because of
the! Government's rules that require that only foreign exchange loans can be
used to finance the importation of foreign equipment and the demand of the
machinery industry for imported equipment is likely to far exceed the credit
financing provided for under the proposed loan.
46.       Eligibile enterprises for assistance under the proposed loan would
be defined as those engaged in the "manufacture of fabricated metal products,
machinery and equipment". Small and medium industries would be defined in
terms of maximum size of employment. The official definition would be
applicable to the clients serviced by SMIPC. The definition for small and
medium enterprises for the DFCs would be made according to their respective
charters. For CNB, the maximum size of employees of its subborrowers would
be 100; for SMIB and KLB, the maximum size of employees of their subborrowers
would be 300, except for those specific activities provided by law (Section
1.01(j) of the draft Loan Agreement and the Schedule to the DFC Project
Agreement). The subloan ceilings for the three DFCs would be US$2 million
for SMIB and KLB and US$500,000 for CNB which would be similar to subloan
ceilings under previous Bank loans for CNB and SMIB; KLB has agreed to lower
its subloan ceiling for this particular project to pay attention to the
needs of its smaller machinery industry clients (Section 2.02(b) of the
drraft Loan Agreement). Since the proposed project is the first of its kind
in Korea, the participating DFCs would submit the first five subprojects
regardless of size to the Bank for prior review (Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Thereafter, the free limits would be US$500,000 for
SM][B and US$300,000 for CNB (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
K'LB will not be subjected to any free limit. However, all of its
subprojects, like those of SMIB and CNB, would be subject to an ex post
reviiew. KLB will be required to calculate the economic rate of return for
al:L subprojects above US$1 million while SMIB and CNB will undertake similar
analysis for subprojects above the free limit. Under such an arrangement,
the Bank expects to review about 20 subprojects (accounting for
approximately 15% of the total amount of the credit component and 15% of the
number of subprojects) prior to approval.
47.       All consultant contracts with SMIPC to be financed out of the loan
proceeds would be undertaken in accordance with Bank guidelines. SMIPC and
the Government have agreed that all consultancy contracts above US$100,000
would have consultants, TORs, and terms and conditions subject to the Bank's
prior approval while those below US$100,000 would be subject to post-approval
(Section 2.02(d) of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement). Standard TOR forms
for routine jobs below US$100,000 have been prepared. TORs for repeater
contracts above US$100,000 where changes are minimal would normally be exempt
from prior approval. With these thresholds, the Bank expects to review 20%
of the consultancy contracts prior to approval. With regard to SMIPC's
imports of equipment and materials, which are expected to total less than
US$1.75 million, Government procurement procedures, which require bids from
at least three potential suppliers would be followed. These Government



- 20 -
procedures are satisfactory to the Bank. As the machinery and equipment
contracts are expected to be numerous and small, international competitive
bidding would not be appropriate. For the credit component, the three DFCs
would follow their standard procurement procedures. These procedures, which
are based on strict competitive bidding practices that require at least
three bids from competitor suppliers, have been examined and found to be
satisfactory under previous Bank loans.
48.       The loan amount earmarked for the technical assistance and training
components would be disbursed against 100% of the cost of consultancy
services retained by SMIPC; 100% of the costs of overseas training; 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials; and 60%
of local expenditures for locally manufactured/procured equipment and
materials, (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). The credit component
would be used, as in previous Bank loans to the three DFCs, to finance 100%
of the foreign exchange costs of goods and services directly imported by
subborrowers and 60% of locally manufactured/procured equipment and
materials (representing the estimated foreign exchange cost) (Section
2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). This loan is expected to be disbursed
in four years; the disbursement profile for this project is realistic based
on the projections provided by SMIPC and the three DFCs. The standard
Industrial Development Finance (IDF) disbursement profile is not relevant
for the portion to be allocated to SMIPC, whereas the credit component is
expected to be completed one year earlier than the disbursement profiles for
the IDF sector in the region because of the efficiency of the participating
DFCs and because the demand for investment funds by machinery enterprises
far exceeds the amount of credit available under the loan.
Benefits and Risks
49.       Expected Benefits.  This project is expected to generate substantial
economic and institution-building benefits. The major immediate benefits of
the project would be improved export performance and increased import substi-
tution by the machinery industries. On the enterprise level, it is antici-
pated that about 660 individual enterprises would be assisted by SMIPC in
1983-86. In addition, about 3,300 managers, engineers, and supervisors would
be trained by SMIPC in manufacturing processes and management techniques dur-
ing the period. Moreover, an additional 100-150 subprojects, some of which
would also be recipients of technical assistance, would receive financial
assistance from the participating financial institutions to increase economi-
cally and financially sound investments in the machinery sector. A limited
sample of the DFCs' machinery subprojects showed that their economic rates of
return ranged from 19% to 55% with an average of 25% and their financial
rates of return ranged from 14% to 65% with an average of 33%. The project
would foster improved coordination in the provision of financial and techni-
cal assistance to SMIs as well as improved access to financial assistance of
subprojects currently not having such access. The proposed project is also
expected to generate a number of external economies relating to productivity
and product quality of the machinery industries. Finally, the strategy of
on-the-job training fostered by the project would rapidly disseminate improved



- 21 -
technologies at the plant level, and a group of production technology
consultants would be trained domestically to carry on the functions which
must now be performed by expatriate consultants.
50.       Risks.  The risks in this project are two-fold:  (a) institutional
risks; and (b) disbursement risks. With respect to institutional factors, the
major risk is that SMIPC's PROTIP activities will not prove effective as the
primary institution for the provision of technical assistance to the machinery
industries in Korea and/or will not be able to coordinate its technical
assistance and training activities with the provision of credit. The
anticipated benefits from the project would thus be diminished. The funds
available under the line of credit would nevertheless be disbursed, and output
and exports of the machinery industries would expand, though not at such rapid
rates as might occur if the technical assistance aspects of the project had
been carried out properly. Such a development is unlikely, however, since
SMIPC has already appointed a competent Director to supervise the Extension
Service Departments and would seriously embark on a program to improve its
institutional strength prior to and during project implementation. In addi-
tion, there are risks that the credit component would disburse more slowly
than expected due to recent reductions in domestic interest rates below
foreign exchange lending rates. However this risk is mitigated by the fact
that the Government has issued rules that require that only foreign exchange
loans can be used to finance the importation of foreign equipment and the
demand of the machinery industry for imported equipment is likely to far
exceed the credit financing provided for under the proposed loan. Moreover,
the Government expects the discrepancy between foreign and local interest
rates to be temporary. The Bank is continuing its review of the recent
financial measures in the context of overall dialogue in conjunction with
the proposed financial sector loan. On balance, the benefits of the project
are likely to be substantial and the risks involved manageable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Citizens National Bank, the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank, the Small and
Medium Industry Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Additional Conditions of Effective-
ness are ratification of the Project and Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Additional special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
A.W. Clausen                        I
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1982



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                   Page 1 of 5
KoREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KODRA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA  (THOUSAND SQ.  HM.)OST RECENT                                                  - HMOST RCENT ESTIMATE)-
7-(YrAL  99.5                    MOST RECENr          MIDME ~~~~~INCOME      MIDDLE INCOM
AGRICULTURAL     22.5              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                190.0       430.0   1520.0                  890.1                 1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    208.0       657.3   1472.5                  701.7                 1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
FOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25012.0    32241.0  38197.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7       40.7      54.8                  32.4                   65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       70.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     254.0       327.4    381.8                  255.9                   35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.8     1389.1   1669.4                 1748.0                   92.5
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.9        42.1      35.1                  39.9                   39.7
15-64 YES.                        53.7        54.6      61.1                  56.8                   56.1
65 YRS. AND AEOVE                  3.3         3.3       3.8                   3.3                    4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.1         2.5       1.9                   2.3                    2.4
URBAN                             4.7         6.4       4.9                   3.9                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    42.7        30.3      25.3                  31.8                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.4         9.1       7.9                   9.8                    8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.7         2.1       1.6                   2.0                    2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       671.0    686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        32.0      49.1                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-10D)         89.0        99.0    113.0                  115.6                  110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  97.4       107.0    117.2/d                106.4                  108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         57.1        62.8      72.173;               54.4                   66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       7.0         8.2      14.37d                13.9                   34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     8.6         3.9       2.1                   6.7                    5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   54.4        60.3      65.4                  59.8                   64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          78.3        50.1      34.1                  63.7                   64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
EOPULATION)
TOTAL                            12.1        58.0      71.0                  32.0                   65.6
URBAN                            18.6        84.0      85.0                  51.9                   78.9
RURAL                             9.5        38.0      54.9                  20.5                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        25.0      64.0/e                37.7                   59.3
URBAN                              ..        59.0      68.07;                65.7                   75.3
RURAL                              ..          ..      50./e                 24.0                   30.0
EOPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3540.8      2238.3   1978.8/d               8540.4                 1617.3
EOPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3245.1/f   1786.5/f  487.4 d                4829.4                 1063.5
EOPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2513.5      1949.5    642.4/e               1047.5                  477.4
URBAN                          1286.9      1095.3     754. 8/e              651.6                  679.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                2597.6                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        14.9        ..                  27.0                   27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.6         5.0       4.5
URBAN                             5.4          ..
RURAL                             5.6          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.5         2.3       2.0/c
URBAN                             2.8         2.7       2.17                    ..
RURAL                             2.4         2.2       2.0.T
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            28.4        49.9
URBAN                            67.3        92.4
RURAL                            12.4        29.9      64.9/d



ANNEX I
24-                                         Page 2 of 5
KUMIA upu3Zc- of - SOCEAL INOZCATOiS OATA INlET
KORIA R1PUILZOf -7              U PR UNCI 5ROMU   (WZONHTDAY A    tS
MOST UCENT                    N
1160  Lb    1970  1 ISITMATZ I          AI/A 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AIERICA 1 CARZI3IAN
EDUCATION
13MMIO ENROLLMRNT RATIOS
nYA1Y:       TOTAL                94.0        105.0     111.0                   96.2                    104.3
MALU                 99.0        100.0     112.0                   99.8                    10.4
FEMALE               89.0        105.0     111.0                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARYI   TOTAL                 27.0        42.0      76.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALI                 38.0         51.0      82.0                   41.1                     40.4
EM4ALE               14.0         33.0      70.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X 0  SECONDARY)  14.2        14.3       19.7                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACU RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.2        56.9      48.1                   35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          34.3        36.5      39.0                   25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        70.6        87.6       93.0                  73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPSION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5          1.9       6.2                    9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TSOUSAND
POPULATION                        31.2        124.4     402.2                  116.)                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3        13.1     150.6                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0       136.3     172.8                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          5.2       2.0                    2.8                      2.7
LABOR F0RCE
TOTAL LA  BOR FORCE   (THOUSANDS)    8307.2     11285.2   14637.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  26.1         32.7      32.5                   33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.0        50.0      34.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0        18.0      29.0                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.2        35.0      38.3                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 49.5        46.8      51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               17.2        23.0      25.1                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4         1.3        1.0                   1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/h       17.1      16.1/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37w       44.5      45.37;e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77         7.1       5.7Tre
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.Orh       17.7      16.97;i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     320.0                  194.7
RURAL                                ..          ..     270.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     370.0                  178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     310.0                  164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      18.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      11.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithletic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1975; /d 1977; /e 1976, /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /I 1962; /h 1965.
May, 1982



-25 -                                                                ANNEX I
OummNaouf OF socu. nzwou                                                              n'a   e   'I   of~
S0.I.-   tb06.   lb. h  4      d0 0e4   0o00  -o.0    psoly 704.4g  th  -.  0hOtt. 004 I.10*0.. to .04.01  .1.do0   do .00   to .0-l., -y oc  h   000
oooo*1y  000000. b0.0. of lb. 1.0 of 0.40d00.od ddflolltOt.. .0d Idoo tp. o.e4 by liff-IdI  L0000..o 01. b08 . 4Id.  U  .0 "U                        .000
Oheteo..I onelol. to "dgolb. o-er of osgoltd., lodL1n0   r. .-                 - cOOtehe .01   -Jot diRff.'-te  bo.... -o         1-ee
16. oof.-so   cl-oe 00  (1)00 .0. - oo.-t.7  0ep of 060 006.t Oo.07 004 (2) I .-try S-op  '000  -ehoo  huh..   -p01  oo-s  Lb- tAo .-otry Stoop
of oh. o.hjoc    -"o (o.ooo  feo "C.,pO5to   lopOil I. po ..o.O." 00Op 00.- '90d40. in-.  00,-0 If0k. .0d KAdl. 0.00" 1   bo.d0  60000  of ..o...a.
oo.0."-f l"oo.   ffo L     .  I. thep baf.o". g.o.  totte  vrg.  ori..S . lbp.elol of..6.  oretl   h.00 000d 00-h e41..0  Sa M                     0017b    of.
.ed 10  ftif-,. -eo1o  -00  ho e-erien  to retOa 0000n  of  -n  1o41..to  to entOhe.  The.  -oons..00 only o.nf. 01 t oni                           tho  .I- . o
0.0 00d  0        IIa 10   -zo tOn 0e00' .04  -oto. Sloo..
.400 ARIA (60.o.e4 .q.00.(                                          OtOOOItti  000  0.00.1 30a 4 - t0.t1. -ohd.e.      0000 -..    FPopo1tI   (00001
L1001P- TI10011eOe.00  t                 l0O1  d. 000  00  Solod soo..oooo  cod --I.) divided by tbirt -.p-tO0  o                                      .of hc.pltao  bd40
AaL0.Eilto.1 - foOlOnt. of            -.0o001 000  oOOd 00P0001Y .. P.-II,                     .0il .   I. t  pbI61  .04 pl0... s-nto1 00  05.0 i.0.d. 60.1000.1 cod 00
f00 .-00., p000-, nOht  0  = bthi  gr0d0 000 Ito I flloo; 107 to.".                        hbiitd.ioo.oo.           .opi        .. 0  .oh.to0..-ot  pooo.only  tooffd.
by  00d10.0.00  phy.I.to-   9-blighonooo p-iOdto  p000.ipllIy  -oO-
-007  0.ITA2 (US$) - GM?otOoioooOo   to  or.- .t  -51  prto-o.  1-                             dial   -oo  colc  iocoldd.  00.  6010... I      60i. ..o-o  idolod. bogltb
olcood by  -0  ooeoto.00    000.1 ~6 look A01.. (1977-49 booO); 1900,                          0.d  04.01-  .-00  000 p.-nonly  -tffd0 by 0 phyotico. (boo by
1.970, .d 1979 dt.-,                                                                            -d.4.0.  -ocodoOe. 000. .14.1.,  ot..)  ki.  off.. to-10000t oc
d-tc   e400d     10  10100d 00080 .f e.40.   fcilltIdd..  For 00001
000  00ST!0 P   412*-  o01oooOonoftoo..100087(0.1                     ooop.o10.   r060  he.p.Vit        oOod  W500 piol.00p1/g.n-l hc.otl..
.0410. -pOoIoA. 0000o10   en d bytr-, 0.1st.0 - oeob- o.-.  .1..-                             040016.0..0  0000.001 hOlpt--!                 -1 -d.e4t0   net --000
tooiy    0ilogo-  of ol~ oqo-1-0000 -Ptdpt; logo. 1970,  Wn 1979                          SOOe.0oo-Wi..d hoopilolo ... XtI.4ode  001, -0.40   00
dot..                                                                                        Ad.Ldidooi.  00  .-0t01 1.4 - Toto  .ob.0 of     o0oto 00 dl.0000
9                                                                                              1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hoopIonl  d01144 by the o600  of hod..
ToalPoo1atio  Old-boo  (aW-ooot) .O  of J.1y 1; 1960. 1970,. cd 11079                  070110
Il- 0-   o  .                                                                                   b.-00   SIn  ofc ooo0d(000000   oOohO)-00.000.04  001
OtOoo0t  nIoltoa  o  co..oooo    f foot owoo-6l1ty of dot.                      Wo t6.0 000 0010.  A 6000400 00 lodge.Is    0000   006  i-o d.14 0
...a0   -Ii.tl.; 1960. 1970, .417  400                                                       . 000004  f00 .otItia. 1001000.
*  P*0ilotj0.Pto700ljo..                                                    1900             100A000,,,   600  fP000000000.-  to          . _oh_. cod  _ctI _ d_.geS.
Pooootoo   eOorO   at ntolo.  lot0  posyi-iof rh.. 10.01  logo                        r ofoopo   0.00L0..  ido- ti.
too     =     =Lonopooooy 0       -A tOoocoin 01-L05007   100 f-I000  d0w               co. t ldg.     t          D-000   f1011.4. 0  -  .0d . ..-P-o.. 0    0  -d
0000  fotf.1tolilty 000.100 h0.-00.0 1.1-  -oomogo 10.10L.                                of 00001, cob., end oct1 d..Ilitg. -gpoopaOi07.
fonolI"o  oodtot  0000  1-001   004pot f0."17plso   poofooc..
006-0h 071  Ohsd 00000.d o-  of U.-c .10. o                     'o0to f  -"OIIo       000CATI00
004l f0001=07todt  1. p-loieoo.o pr.oooo.                                                  94100004 00001.lont 00000
S.tco-ty Ic.ltoo - L. 0                 I:L     o .0000770010000   100   t0000  0100   000070601-001  01   o     oo     0000. 001.0 dd   so-lo
lb. birob rote 1. 09.1 oohb  10.h to,  0  .100I teS. otocor  to11ooo t o011   00  0000  0000  10  00poOtwtSO   of 00P00ti0
001  -t000000   ml. Id00.01.00  ooly afoot I otitoy tot_ 40.11.  00                      OoOy 0000-age. "po.oploto.; Ooonr ly 1-.4l-. h60400  egd 6-11
t00 001.           - (01 of 00100 od.pr000100. 0000   oto   e.-h Sotin                        7.-0  WI0 0410   for dt;ffoo    Ioogth. of 1001000   dOOtlo; 0.-
ofitlooo loaf  -017.  Tho 000100r0  Popooto.. 0.0 -                              oomoOlti   vith .000000  0400t0  001.-o0 007 00000  100 po.toa
000.00d to the b.0    of 0t P00000 oJ-       0erooo   of 060 P.9oldlift                    -.   O opoil.  0  60-          00 .60, b- 0 lb ffIt.o.  -oo1 00..
tb0  y_.700  200D.0040 tb te of 40.11.  of foeo1ty I... ooop.e0e-                       o.0    001- IT1.01004    .0.-M o                        0.6000; 0.00407
sot 10001.                                                     oootOoO teqOito. 00 10000 foot ~~~~~~~~~~~ynco  of 0u0 .00  10007  nob.0
00cr -00100.   Mpi00.1 0  I.0 eethed - 760 700           I000000  PopoLoolo                    pooOt   ..01   00000.0   .600000  0001    for po0.6l
000 bod be. 0000604.. 00.01  of 12 to 17 yoOt of 0.; lo-00004-   00000   00o                                                                                        UOIY
P-.0  00.   Ki--          - 0-s   o.o0 00 .00 6110.0 (10060.01 of                           90t000 ooOII-, loo-n  of  -00.d07) - OootO.01 000000-
00000  . ooolc01 b.c  -. 1Cte     -  .6b0   00. ostl.oo.1~   1..04                     0001   d0c   .1000      . of 0000400  0t0t1=0
0017; 1960. 1907 .041070.400.                                       7o21.1-ocbo, -eO    - Iti-IT, o.d -0d.000    - T00-1 ... o000 sro.1-0  I0
OooIco.doe00.000  oeoso   -Childt  (0-14 ye-oo.  -.o0610-0g  (1-5-                   P0I507 004   -d000  1-a1  4004d4 by  -oo-  of 000600L. to 06
tb700.04  00   6   000.4 oO) 00yts.o    f 01d-mo   p00-                                         00010410 10010
10  90.  90   n   199 lot..                                                           401  III---,0 t-  (--ts     - 1100000  "410t 6.  0 to-d sd wit.)
Ooocoto both0.0  (     Ioo.(   000  - Oinc.  000.06 000000   0f 0 t 04 0We0000-0    of   t. d001410tPopoAiot,o .00   15 7.0 0n    0.
70000001000020.105000,190-7"00  1707-79.
1000 000 0.00(0   60.4      0.0.10076   o 190.o.0  of0OOyno                                    00000000   10006I 006   0000000;o. 00100 PI-o  h                  o  and
70000100100  1900. 1077. 0    1979 dA0..                                                      0.07  01.
000.1000;  00.  070  04  07  ..t..                                                    bIOodoet  to. F 000  bX-ro.t0.oo   of  ypopo  I..10;.014 
It..0000too  00.- g*.00    Aoob  of d.0060000   000 U01  boo   010004t0000  0 00.00- 0.01J. 7000 .600005000t00  of 0040
tw 000   O octt,..4  1.0000of0  10o.on  ,o-o.01 f. 0-                             000  10   . effoot; 40 dtoof 00.0.0 70000 my dol 60 tofobl. .nt
I0Tyot. .00-0111 f o-y-I  -000g. .0d18 L. 196. 1970. .04 1979.                            0.00       ". bcctohl.1041se.0
of  100-otto  4.1.0  .000  00000.of  ooo -oo  f.n   lof .lng  pOoson           500010V10 6-00004  00al000d oll0ld                001100000  70 05.. 00
Ponil, Oconlo.-OOo. (oooom. 0 ooood o.so( - 00050.0.00  fottod0 oonto..o04    yocto oboo ooh0000--L                        of 0 oco 000 0. eLfL.00
'Tf0 bill        ot0   g  (10   oo).000   006t.01InO.                                        0000 tOoIO0d'000000to                  l-Ln.                   TV60   h  000000
FOOD A.N0 N0T10                                                                                  to b0 "doil," if it 01p000 00 000  f... 005-   . 0.1
104d of 704 P0d4.00..  -  .. oo.  (1969-.71.100  -. 0     of P.oa0  os.o..              Cio-. A..s1 *Itoed-o. .0- 10000 000 bo     - 0.0.4  -0 060 0.0.  of
Poodtto  of 011 foot 0o - --00i.  700400010  0.1d40    .04  f0 ..4 .04                      00.6.0014 4000g t6. 00, 10010410             0401.0  400-to*so
0001  000g01004000101.0.ogh.; 196l-65. 1970, 0041979   ,oboa Loh'Et7.l6ooOO- 00"00"..11  0.000 pooo-'0.00
Poo _.0   .010 ofInlt . _ 000   0t 0010)- C.0.P.4.  f05                                      coned fcoo...      ,o.cy      6   .01410        OOOo. 0400.  0.
100"00. 0001.6. 00100i00 000001.  dsooto podootnlto. wr.too.1                          oooowoo   ;1960. 1970 W0 1979 do..,
Itor0  .            I 6..  o .00..  000  cplito. 0..4   noel f.0,  ?04.t.-L. 0o00   F- Oo1.60  00b0.. -t por.-Sto     of  -01 106., foOt..
t~00..04by 000 6000. --,0ioo Id0.0 f 0   o'..I              0                fiohig.. pooog   f  -.01 Lobo  foot.; 1960. 1970 .04 1979 400.
ITy  0        helo  0000000.  _0000__1   Oott body .0060 . 00L0cot(000       .60  foo.I   110.000000.  stOOtOt
004 000 '4t006000  of po"T."ll"0  004 of-.ao iO p-rs     0ct  0                           0   looo,   or. 0   00d 70 t.0000  of toOal I.b60  fol.e; 1960.
600004  .1 610-O.190, 0-d 1977 toOt.                                             1970 .04 1979 dd-0
700000 0001 o  00010(Steo   40,7  - fto`Olo .00000  of p00.0                     700oat0 tte  0.0000                   -Loal   .1..   f-1.1    POp.     0
oat =1p  of food P.. lay.  S.0 .0017 of 1041.  0114 "          00.60,..  R-.                  tili,o   00           I 0..4 . total, 0-I0. -d  f Soo 1060- 700.00.
ootsO     foO .110.0.  b00100   y 0100 P.-id4. 00. .1.050                             p0000010   of 0001  -010.04 f sol  oplAt100  of 01oge,  t.-op.0o
.110000t.f 60 gOso of total P-0.1  p.  doy .04 20te  1.1..4                                   1970  .d4 79 d.00.  T1-.. 00  6b040010d              p-m=110t0   00
7010  000000. of 0616 10 frC00146  aol ~..'000.76. s t                                 0011000      g__300   t_ 00000  of t60900010000. 0041000           ~ 010004.  *
004000 laO. . Lthem  of 715 s   of 0.0 tWPo-t.l. .04 01 03                                  f_.0.000 ..      1l 00   .00.1ei .00
-` _010000         . "000   orS   1_ 00 06 014  00000.04 by F0"  Io 0 b.060            00001. 000040. 0f.0      0    of 7.000  ..0  13 00  61  0    0
001  tod S-.vo; 190-f.. 1970 .04 1977 0000.                                             000  00   W0600 0000
0.ft0.-.0.L00.0   0000   os    o   0; 1001-45. 1970 .04 1977 dtoo.                       DITIM
00  40. 001,4 lon 1.000600,1960. 1970 5d 1979 d1-0                              o5f bo. .o.holdh. t
11 0000000th (00000       A-- ..000  00.l00   000 f 110050.10i                   mTh. U0  .010000007  pooat                                of p00001  levl..
:2 050 00 tbcofoeod 11,0 006..~I-I.dAb..
000~f  oooeoI  000. 00                                                               It0)0   00001   0..t  .1  0400
oooooppo  'Otooe  00000oo100 0000  0 00000  0  ooOt0004              iti-iol01.o  Poot- diot pl 0. (1-         00  0.--Ibtiot00.1 -f ~-
00. 0. 0  00  to.00000  60001.0, 01000.80  004  -ot.otr  0010   s                   0.1 l.0. Poo-ot,                               Id0000  .-60  of  -nto. p.o ..10t.
00000000  0  010000000,000001000.2.0 .00  00000061*p00.01 00 o  00007.   TO..  .001  0  .0.400.  00 i00
0000 0o.1og 10t01000o - 41.         of00 - 00.1 b.-60.  -14 I0.0     -.I                  dP_                                    L- L 1u
U  oo0050  of ;tl.OOp00  00000                   00.00    i    t.00.1    4 0.01040
P ..l.0o  00Pboit It  -t         oio   1.0  6    o    of o000-0po-1-   Iohyo
bycco00   000 --.0. -. .-OOoc -0. 4040  by of .60000`= 70-00000.0..i
.0.04    o. 0004000   nt.P.L.i   dj000 d by .000   0  00000000id 0 h.000.7  9



ANNEX I
Populationt  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                 Page  4  of  5
UNIP Per Capita:  US1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (X) at constant prices
current prices)                                  Actual                                ,      Projected
Indicator                               1980/a              1976       1977       1978       1979       1980        1981/a    1985        1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               59,177               13.9       10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.5        8.0        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                         9,754               10.7        2.1      -4.0         6.7      -22.0       23.0        2.5        2.5
Industry                           24,396              20.1       15.8       20.8         8.4       -0.5        4.7       10.0       10.0
Services                           25,027              10.8         9.7       11.0        6.0       -4.2        2.9        7.0        7.0
Consumption                          45,215                8.8        7.1       11.0        7.4       -1.0        4.2        4.8        6.4
Gross investment                      17,889               8.0       24.0       35.9       17.5      -24.4        5.6        8.5         7.6
Exports of GNFS                       21,145              43.0       25.7       17.5       -3.6        9.9       17.5       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                      25,846               26.9       23.8       29.1        8.6       -7.7        7.9        7.4        8.8
Gross national savings                12,268              42.3       17.3       14.1        3.7      -17.7       18.0        -           -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                               116.3       135.8      164.6      197.4      246.7      289.0        -          -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                                  484.0       484.0      484.0      484.0      607.6        -          -          -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                          112.8      120.2      137.2      161.2      168.7      179.9      240.9      321.1
Import price index (1975 - 100)                         103.0       103.9      108.4      137.3      175.2      170.2      233.5      316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                        109.5      115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3      105.7      103.2      101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                        Average annual increase (X)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90i
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6        9.8        8.2         7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4              4.3        4.9       -1.2        5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4       15.3       13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3              8.1        7.7        7.6        6.2        7.0
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1              6.7        7.8        7.1        4.8        6.1
Gross investment                   11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8            23.6       11.2       14.6        9.2         8.8
Exports of GNPS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3       25.4       16.1       10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9             20.2       15.8       17.0        7.2        8.4
Gross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7         -        -          17.2       14.6        -          -          -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7         2.5       4.3            Unemployed                    0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0         1.3        1.0               Total Labor Force        14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                                   8.7               9.0              7.9               7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                        5.9               6.9               5.2              5.9               6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                   14.2               9.6             12.3/c             7.7
I COR                                                        1.9               2.7               5.4              4.7               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                        0.3               0.3              0.3               0.5               0.4
Import elasticity                                            2.2               1.6              2.0               1.0               1.1
/a  Preliminary.
lb Including net transfers.
_c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 1982



ANNEX I
Population        38,445 (mid-1980, tbousands)               2     -                                      Page5of5
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                             _Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1981    1981/a    1985    1990
BALANC2 OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,577  27,400    55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.         882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,214  20,850    43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services        2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,347  32,655    59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.       1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,598  24,105    45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178     225      345      222     467      439      449     512        668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307         8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,321  -4,743    -3,968  +2,276
(% of GNP)                           (-7)  (-.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.2)    (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                        66       53      75       72      61       17       96      122       800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   2,096   3,419          3,821   6,019
Official                              147     486      663      594     663      853      689   1,108        893      908
Private                                95     765      575      864   2,083   2,090   1,408   2,311        2,927   5,111
Other capital                           372     929      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,362   1,792         1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                     -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863    -326    -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                  610     797   1 985   2 992   2 828   3 112   3 975   4 301          9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imtports             3.4      1.2     2.4      2.7      1.8     1.5      1.7     1.6        1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -          -        -
Concessional loans                    123     123      238      163     184      193      138     159        205  - 200
DAC                                 122     108      226      132     167      173      121     158        205     200
OPEC                                 -        -        -      21       13       20       17       1          -       _
IDA                                   1      14       10       9        3        -       -        -          -       -
Other                                -        1        2        1       -        -       -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,511   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779          7,457  13,855
Official export credits              18     151      132     262      219      341     606      844        711   1,054
IBRD                                 7      189      286     190      321     426      254      306        611   1,075
Other multilateral                    5      87       83      85       89       91      90      104        168     255
Private                            287   1,083   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525           5,968  11,471
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                        1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585  19,766    36,538. 59,291
Official                           613   2,657   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531   7,806    12,102  16,440
Private                          1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054  11,960    24,436  42,851
Undisbursed                           902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293   5,047          5,828   9,208
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268     667      910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192   3,505         7,083  13,444
Interest                           70      283      392     475      659     936   1,442   1,791       3,242   5,408
Payments as X exports                19.4    11.3      9.6      9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2    12.9         12.8    11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658    18,649  15,864
Interest payments                     ...     ...      ...      152     236      377     907   1,810       2,237   2,261
Interest as X exports                 ...     ...      ...      1.2     1.4      1.9     4.0      6.7        4.1      1.9
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (X)
Official                             4.5      7.9      7.1     7.9      7.4      7.6        -       -          -        -
Private               -               7.1     9.3      8.3      8.4     9.7    11.5         -       -          -        -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8           -       -          -        -
Private                              10.9     5.7      8.7      8.8     9.3      9.3        -       -          -        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                          35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                          61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                           6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 28, 1982



ANNEX II
-28-                                 Page 1 of 13 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                                             Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                              (less cancellations)
Number         Year        Borrower             Purpose                        Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-one  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                          1,299.01  40.0  106.81
1203          1976    Republic of Korea      Highways III                       90.0                        0.55
1319         1976    ADC                      Irrigation                        29.0                        7.97
1364          1977    ADC                     Irrigation                        95.0                       29.03
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                          67.0                       14.29
1474         1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                23.0                        0.80
1503         1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       23.05
1530         1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II            95.0                       17.47
1542         1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                        1.22
1574         1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                        0.21
1635         1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        0.37
1640         1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                       143.0                       37.04
1666         1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       58.05
1676         1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                       12.97
1749         1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        0.71
1758         1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       50.74
1774         1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                       29.25
1788         1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                               115.0                       94.32
1800          1980    Republic of Korea      Education V                       100.0                       79.83
1829         1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       10.78
1836         1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                       16.50
1851         1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                     50.0                       27.83
1932         1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       38.65
1933         1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       22.72
1974         1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit          50.0                       34.32
1980         1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Housing          90.0                       84.32
2004          1981    SMIB IV                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       54.58
2 071         1982    Republic of Korea       Structural Adjustment            250.0                       80.30
2072          1982    Republic of Korea       Water Supply                      90.0                       90.00
2111          1982    Republic of Korea       Agricultural Marketing            50.0                       49.27
2112          1982    KTDC                    Technology Development            50.0                       48.47
2144          1982    CNB                     DFC                               30.0                       30.00
Total                                                          3,765.01  40.0  106.81   1,045.61
of which has been repaid                                       362.52   -       -
Total now outstanding                                          3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid        8.83                             -      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                              3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Total undisbursed                                              1,045.61   -       -       1,045.61



-29 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                       Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                       Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.           Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.      Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                       Development Financing        17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing          -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.           Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing          -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                       Capital Market                        0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                          -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                          -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                       Development Financing          -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)       Research & Development         -      0.7    0.7
Total gross commitment                                 106.4   28.9  135.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                  75.2    4.0   79.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                       31.2   24.9   56.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                        -      1.2    1.2
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and four more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these five subprojects.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and irriga-
tion of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam construc-
tion, awarded in December 1977, is complete. Other parts of the project have
fallen behind due to a shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government
recently agreed that loan disbursements would be limited to the ten subproj-
ects under implementation and scheduled for completion in 1984.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
conLversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects. An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, con-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and telephone
line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000 addi-
tional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. The minor irriga-
tion component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1983, about one
year behind schedule.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, orn-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale
agro-processing and backyard livestock. Project implementation is proceeding
rapidly with disbursements ahead of schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
Loan No. 2111    Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project; $50.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date:  August 6, 1982;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project provides for construction and equipping of an agricul-
tural wholesale market at Garagdong in Seoul, the establishment of an author-
ity to run the market, training for wholesale and market officials and
carrying out a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system and related
public policies. The main civil works contract for construction of the
market has been awarded and construction is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank and diversion of the river through the left bank
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily and loan disbursement is nearly complete.



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7,. 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC.  In order to support relatively
labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million was earmarked for
financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
$750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost
per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to finance small- and
medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0 million of the
proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea Development Leasing
Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to KDFC, by way of
subloans. Progress is good and disbursement is nearly complete.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, is opera-
tional. KIET's work program has been prepared with input from industry.
The training and expert invitation program has been implemented satisfac-
torily. Some shortage of counterpart funds which had affected the project
and proposed institutional changes which had given rise to concern have been
addressed by the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods.  To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. About 98% of
the loan has been committed and disbursement is nearly complete.



-34                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980, Effective Date: &gust_5, 1980, ClOsing_Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two-year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities.  The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date:  March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Both
commitments and disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.  The project is progressing well.  Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced



- 35 -                ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13 pages
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector. Commitments and disbursement are slightly
behind appraisdl estimates; however, SMIB expects full commitment and
disbursement of the loan ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2112    Technology Development Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 10, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project would help foster the technological development of
Korean industry by supporting the development of the Korea Technology Devel-
opment Corporation (KTDC). Specifically, the loan will finance $1.0 million
worth of technical assistance and training of KTDC staff and provide a $49.0
million line of credit to finance industry RD&E. Subprojects are expected
to be approved by KTDC up to end-1984. The project is making excellent
operational progress. As of June 15, 1982, the Bank had approved subloans
of $5.6 million equivalent for 18 subprojects.
Loan No. 2144    Citizens National Bank II; $30.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1982; Effective Date: August 24, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project would assist CNB to move toward term transformation,
upgrade CNB's term lending capability at the branch level and encourage CNB
to diversify its sources of foreign currency. In line with the Bank's con-
tinued support of small-scale industries (SSI), at least $15.0 million of
the loan is earmarked for financing smaller SSIs employing no more than 50
workers.  In addition, at least $15.0 million of the Bank loan proceeds is
earmarked for projects outside the city limits of Seoul. The loan became
effective on August 24, 1982.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers in rural
areas; 11 Family Planning Clinics in low-income urban areas, expanded infor-
mnation, education and communication production and training facilities, and
upgraded health centers; providing and equipping 13 mobile family planning
units; provision of about 75 vehicles, and training and information, educa-
tion and communication equipment; production and distribution of information,
education and communication materials; fellowships; research and evaluation;
and information, education and administrative staff. Training of multipur-
pose midwives is progressing satisfactorily and 400 staff have been trained



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
to date and training of a further 1,120 multipurpose workers is being under-
taken. Construction of 14 maternal and child health family planning centers
are in the final stages of completion. Euqipment procurement for these
centers has progressed satisfactorily.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. All eight VTIs and the central
VTI are in full operation and performance is satisfactory. All equipment
has been awarded. All experts are in post and the fellowship program has
been completed. Management performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is behind schedule but the anticipated 1980-84 target will be
reached as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of: housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu and ferry



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13 pages
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 13 subprojects while 2 subprojects have been cancelled.
Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are being transferred
to the cities and county concerned. Land acquisition has been essentially
completed and construction is well underway. Only limited construction was
possible on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981 because of insufficient
Government budget allocations; however, construction is now proceeding as
originally programmed. A continuous budget has been established for Central
Government funded subprojects whereby annual allocations have been determined
for the life of the project.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities. The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 lou-income dwellings. Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Contract work on nine of the original ten sites have been completed. The
tenth site has been ommitted due to the uncertainty of marketability of the
site. Further savings due to lower than estimated bids for land preparation
and timely implementation have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize
these savings to finance development of three supplementary sites (Seoul
Goduck, Busan Manduck and Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after
review of feasibility studies, and contracts awarded. A fourth supplemen-
tary site is under consideration for financing out of cost savings, subject
to mutual agreement by KLDC and KNHS and agreement on use and pricing of
lou-income land.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government's efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water



- 38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13 pages
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977, Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extenion of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Project with special emphasis
in container handling facilities. The project comprises: (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dredging, access
road, container freight station and equipment and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA's capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly. Project completion is expected for June 1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the railroad Investment Plan 1977-81, and
includes (a) electrification and double tracking of Seoul City suburban lines;
(b) capacity increases in lines and stations; (c) way and structure renewals
and improvements; (d) procurement and repowering/remodeling of diesel loco-
motives and rolling stock; (e) modernization and construction of repair
facilities; (f) improving telecommunications and power supply facilities; and
(g) provision of staff housing, training equipment and advisory services.
The project is near completion.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date:  March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. An estimated 80% of
the civil works were completed by end September 1982. Maintenance equipment
procurement is underway. The study reports of the Gun Road Development
Program and of the Provincial and Gun Road Maintenance Program have been
finalized and detailed engineering for Gun Roads have been completed. An
extension of the closing date is under consideration.
'Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering/
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is under way. One of
the Transport Studies is about to start and terms of reference for another is
'being finalized.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date:  March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
'handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is estimated to be
December 1983/January 1984. Management and organization study was completed
and reviewed by the Bank in January 1982. There were substational delays in
the preparation of bidding documents, but all contracts have now been placed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
Structural Adjustment
Loan No. 2071    Structural AdJ ustment Loan; $250.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: March 4, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will support the Government's comprehensive structural
adjustment program, the principal aim being to keep the balance of payments
manageable while restoring the growth momentum of the economy. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, specific actions will be taken (i) to save
imports (particularly energy-related imports); (ii) to promote exports and
improve industrial efficiency through consolidation of investment, further
opening of the economy and reducing government intervention; and (iii) to
strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts. The foreign exchange
provided by the loan is being used to finance essential imports. Overall
progress has been satisfactory and the second and final tranche of $100.0
million was released on August 27, 1982.



- 41 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                Eleven Months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                Republic of Korea
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                               February 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:               January 1982
(e)  Departure of Post Appraisal Mission:          June 1982
(f)  Negotiations Completed:                       September 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                April 1982
Section II: Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to exchange views annually with the Bank on the level
and timing of the Government's financial support to SMIPC for the
following year, taking into account SMIPC's financial prospects
and work program (para. 38).
(b) SMIPC, the DFCs, together with the appropriate representatives
from the Government, to form a coordination council which would
periodically review the implementation of the project and report to
the Bank annually, commencing December 1983, assessing the
coordination by SMIPC and the DFCs, in the provision of technical
assistance and credit (para. 31).



I                LIL



_a K.          .O9                                                                                           ID5
N -            R.T H   K 0 R E A-s                       \
-fN KOROEEA
CHtiN A   .                                                                                4   . i           .       /
REP OF
KOREA
JPAN
GY   0   0GI    /chceon GANG   W/vFON                                     4.
125*              ~~~~~~~~26                                                                         Bugheag4
- T:o:t-wc Of    -. .d4                                                                         '
th  rrtuOt  to winch ,t ft at.hed-'   
ttintOfl, sp so - S d W     IIr ton
WtotttW tito., O  tt tt d.  , , py
0hot cztttsuhctO  ,0 trd hot o (f  the4)t3.
37.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
MonriPO  ~  /    t 5    v eonan
;3-                      J Wkn    _                                  ;n?St    =m9  tf~~~~~I N 
M                                   .                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~geun n<  n
35,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
t p*X/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Primary roads
-36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.                                            ,     Rrl i!wr ys
-34-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                            +t-.-,- +Ra lways under construction
'N                                          +<  Airports
4.BU Ports
_ _                    ~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
SpSecial clties
-  -    Proviricic boundaries
Jeju.-_ . InterEat,onal bounda ries
34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20   40   oP ,0    00 :                         ,-120 J  40  160
F 2s'                                                                                          Airpogwtpo  s *   40  60  en  iso
Fi ros
ye'~~~~ivr
spca 1 ie s .



