LOAN NUMBER 2215 KD
Project Agreement
(Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SMALL AND ]MEDIUM INDUSTRY
PROMOTION CORPORATION
Dated December 20, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2215 KO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION
(hereinafter called SMIPC).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various   currencies  equivalent   to   seventy  million   dollars
($70,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that SMIPC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS SMIPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set. forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Act" means the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Act
of the Borrower, promulgated December 5, 1978, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(b)  "Decree" means Presidential Decree No. 9370, promul-
gated March 10, 1979, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(c) "By-Laws" means the By-Laws of SMIPC dated January 17,
1979, as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. SMIPC shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, industrial and industrial training practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SMIPC in providing the
technical assistance to small and medium machinery industries
under Part A of the Project, SMIPC shall employ consultants in
accordance with the terms of Section 2.02 (d) to this Agreement.
For each foreign consultant so employed, SMIPC shall designate a
local counterpart and each foreign consultant shall be required,
as a condition of employment, to provide such training for such
counterpart as will enable such individual to acquire those
skills in respect of which such consultant has been employed.
(b) In order to assist SMIPC in providing the training for
small and medium machinery industries under Part A of the Proj-
ect, SMIPC shall: (i) employ agencies or consultants and experts
in accordance with the terms of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agree-
ment, and (ii) arrange for the provision of appropriate training
through foreign institutions in cases where such training is not
available in the territories of the Borrower.
(c) In order to assist SMIPC in: (i) providing experts with
detailed terms of reference for individual assignments under Part
A of the Project, (ii) monitoring the performance of individual
consultants employed for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
(iii) training SMIPC staff in appropriate skills for carrying out
of Part A of the Project, and (iv) identifying training needs and
coordinating training with technical assistance provided to small
and medium machinery enterprises, under Part A of the Project,
SMIPC shall employ a consultancy firm by March 31, 1983 in
accordance with the terms of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(d) SMIPC shall employ consultants, as provided in para-
graphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 2.02, whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the princi-
ples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. Except as


﻿-3-
the Bank may otherwise agree, contracts for consultants' services
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000 shall be
awarded only with the prior approval of the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed in
accordance with procedures approved by the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) SMIPC undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SMIPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) SMIPC shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SMIPC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SMIPC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities included in Part A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it, and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part
A of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of that
portion of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SMIPC of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,


﻿the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly following the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account for Part A of the Project, but in any event not later
than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank,
SMIPC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Part A of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by SMIPC and the Bank of.their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(e) SMIPC shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all buildings, property and equipment of SMIPC and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) SMIPC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SMIPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by SMIPC of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.07. SMIPC shall ensure that the technical assist-
ance and training provided under Part A of the Project are coord-
inated appropriately. To this end, not later than April 1, 1983,
SMIPC shall assign at least two staff members whose functions
shall include collaborating with the consultants employed by
SMIPC pursuant to the terms of Section 2.02 (c) in identifying
the training needs of firms to which technical assistance is to
be provided under the Project.
Section 2.08. SMIPC will establish, in collaboration with
the Borrower, CNB, KLB and SMIB, a coordinating council comprised
of representatives of each such party, which council will
periodicially review the implementation of the overall Project
and report to the Bank annually, commencing December 1, 1983, as


﻿-5-
to the nature and extent of coordination by SMIPC and each of
CNB, KLB and SMIB in the provision of technical assistance and
credit under this Project. Each such report shall make recom-
mendations as to the scope for further and improved coordination
thereafter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SMIPC
Section 3.01. SMIPC shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial and industrial consultancy practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with the Act, the
Decree, the By-Laws and SMIPC's Policy Statement and SMIPC's
Strategy Statement. Without limitation on the foregoing, SMIPC
shall hire staff, and carry out staff training programs, in
accordance with plans agreed upon between the Borrower, SMIPC and
the Bank.
Section 3.02. SMIPC shall at all times operate and maintain
its equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. SMIPC shall take out and maintain with re-
sponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SMIPC shall levy charges for its services in
accordance with formulae agreed upon between SMIPC and the Bank,
provided, however, that SMIPC shall: (i) with respect to exten-
sion services provided by domestic consultants, by December 31,
1986 and in each year thereafter, levy a charge of 10% of the
direct costs of such services; (ii) with respect to extension
services provided by foreign consultants under Part A of the
Project, by December 31, 1986, levy a charge of at least 30% of
the direct costs of such services, and each year thereafter
increase the charge levied by at least 10%, provided that by
December 31, 1991 and for each year thereafter at least 80% of
the direct costs of such services are recovered; (iii) with
respect to training for top management of small and medium
machinery enterprises, for 1983 through 1986, levy a charge of at


﻿- 6 -
least 70% of the direct costs of such training, and for the year
1987 and each year thereafter levy a charge of at least 80% of
such costs; and (iv) with respect to on-the-job training for
staff of small and medium machinery enterprises, for 1983 through
1986, levy a charge of at least 30% of the direct costs of such
training, and for the year 1987 and each year thereafter levy a
charge of at least 50% of such costs.
Section 3.05. SMIPC shall reorganize its Extension Service
Departments I and II along subsectoral lines by March 31, 1983 in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SMIPC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial conditions,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
in respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. SMIPC shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate  auditing   principles  consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of SMIPC and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SMIPC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SMIPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SMIPC:                              Telex:
Small and Medium Industry              K25542 SMCKO
Promotion Corporation                K22371 KOPTEC
1-1040, Yeoeuido-Dong,
Yeongdeungpo-Gu
Seoul, Republic of Korea


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SMIPC may be taken or executed by the
President of SMIPC or such other person or persons as SMIPC shall
designate in writing, and SMIPC shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION
CORPORATION
By Is/ Chong S. Park
Authorized Representative


