                                                                                                               94574
Strong Policies Sustain Growth, Reduce Poverty                                                            September 10, 2009




         Overview     Results   Lessons Learned      Counterparts    Task Team     Learn More

OVERVIEW

Armenia has a decade-long history of sustained reforms. However, survey
results in the early 2000s showed that, despite growth, poverty was slow
to fall, job creation was weak, and the production base of the economy
was too narrow.

The first generation of reforms in Armenia in the 1990s helped restore the
country’s macroeconomic stability and create basic institutions of
operating market economy. However, since the country was not
demonstrating equally impressive outcomes in micro-economic and social
indicators, the Government approved a Poverty Reduction Strategy
Program (PRSP) in 2003 and, with the assistance of the World Bank, designed a series of four annual
Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) specifically directed at fighting poverty.

The PRSCs focused on building strong governance so as to raise greatly social spending, sharpen
competition, mitigate social and environmental risks, and modernize the rural economy. Over the period
of the four PRSCs, Armenia experienced strong growth and poverty reduction. Macroeconomic discipline
and management showed impressive results with GDP expanding by 58 percent from 2004-08.
Measures sharpening competition and entrenching property rights cut across trade, utilities regulation,
as well as aviation, telecom, property and contract law, banking and capital markets, and rural sectors.
Actions to address social and environmental risks across sectors like education, health, etc., resulted in
the decline of all consumption based measures of poverty and extreme poverty. Interventions in the rural
economy resulted in an acceleration in productivity growth and cost recovery in areas served by
extension services, and an increase in farmer access to advisory services (from none to 40 percent).

Progress on prior actions was tracked using an agreed set of monitoring indicators derived from the
PRSP. Key examples include: increase in the percentage of poor households receiving the family
poverty benefit to 70 percent; increase in water supply duration to 18.5 hours; increase in utilization rate
of hospitals by poor to 30 percent. In many cases the PRSCs provided the necessary impetus required
to move the reforms forward. For example, the World Bank’s backing as well as the use of public survey
data to monitor tax reform impact supported difficult reforms even when it was politically difficult.

The PRSC program ended in May of 2008. Initially the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) had
envisaged three PRSCs in line with the base-case scenario. However the country’s macroeconomic and
institutional reform performance throughout the CAS period allowed the program to move to a high case
and disburse the fourth credit.

RESULTS

                       "The significance of this reform is that it was tackled with various angles
                       and with the use of various products offered by the World Bank. The PRSC
                       Program mandated conditional ties for adoption of an illegal logging
                       system, and the required assistance was provided to strengthen the
                       system. Additionally, the Government's commitment to fund the system and
                       to provide adequate leadership at the highest levels was firmed in number
                       of legal documents."
                       — Mher Sadoyan, Director, Armenia Tree Project, NGO Beneficiary

                       "All of the reform steps implemented with the support of the PRSC series
                       have contributed to increasing efficiency of customs operations and
                       improving service delivery provided to economic agents. However to
                       become fully operational, these reforms require more time than the life-line
                       of the project. Thus when project’s intended outcomes are materialized,
                       Armenia will have a customs system in place which will be in conformity
                       with best international standards."
                       — Suren Karayan, Deputy Minister of Finance, Government of
                       Armenia

        The economy grew by an impressive 58 percent between 2004 and 2008. The poverty rate
        plummeted from 56 percent in 1998 to 26.5 percent in 2006. 1
        Education spending increased from 2.2 percent to 2.9 percent of GDP between 2004 and 2008,
        resulting in the doubling of teachers’ salaries over this period.
        Fairer tax and customs administration resulted in greater government revenues. These rose from
        14 percent to nearly 17 percent of GDP between 2004 and 2008.
        Measures to sharpen competition led to more liberal telecommunications and civil aviation
        regimes, which are especially important in a landlocked country. As a result of increased
        competition, consumer choice expanded and prices fell.

1 All
    these statistics are prior to the current global economic crisis, which risks pushing some of the most
vulnerable back into poverty.




LESSONS LEARNED

        The fact that the PRSCs were deeply rooted in the Government’s poverty reduction strategy
        contributed to the success of reforms. Equally important, the Government’s strategy was
        prepared with wide societal consultation and participation.
        The Government, supported by the World Bank, implemented various sector-specific investment
        projects (such as the ones that shifted resources to primary health care or supported irrigation,
        rural infrastructure, schools, canals, roads) in parallel with the PRSC reforms. Thus, the poverty-
        fighting effects of all these activities were magnified, and delivered results for the poor.
        PRSCs were the basis around which ministries and partners conducted policy discussions and
        developed a common understanding of how each could best help to cooperate and implement
        reforms.
        Technical Assistance from donors was critical for success as they brought in modern techniques
        and good lessons from other countries.

COUNTERPARTS

        The Prime Minister                                 The Ministry   of   Labor and Social Affairs
        The Chief Economic Advisor to the                  The Ministry   of   Education and Science
        President of the Republic                          The Ministry   of   Energy
        The Ministry of Finance and Economy                The Ministry   of   Agriculture
        The Central Bank                                   The Ministry   of   Justice
        State Tax Service                                  The Ministry   of   Environmental Protection
        State Customs Committee                            The Ministry   of   Territorial Administration
    The Ministry of Trade and Economic              Public Services Regulatory Commission
    Development                                     The Chamber of Control
    The Ministry of Transport and                   The Department of Civil Aviation
    Communications                                  The Competition Commission
    The Ministry of Health

TASK TEAM

    Saumya Mitra, Task Team Leader
    Economic, Poverty, Governance Regulatory Reforms and Public Administration
    Douglas Andrew, Mathew Andrews, Harold Bedoya, Richard Bird, Asita De Silva, Reza Ghasimi,
    Gohar Gyulumyan, Artsvi Khachatryan, Matin Kholmatov, Munawer Khwaja, Kathy Lalazarian,
    Miles Light, William Martin, Gerard McLinden, Davit Melikyan, Aghassi Mkrtchyan, Taras Pushak,
    Sarosh Sattar, Afsaneh Sedghi, Vahram Stepanyan, Irina Tratch, Ekaterine Vashakmadze,
    Arman Vatyan, Michel Zarnowiecki
    Competition, Banking and Capital Markets, Regulation of Utilities
    Lia Aghamya, Hormoz Aghdaey, Douglas Andrew, Karen Grigorian, Paul Holden, Craig Jenks,
    Bartek Kaminski, Gevorg Sargsyan, Ramin Shojai
    Private and Financial Sectors, Infrastructure and Regulation of Utilities
    Hormoz Aghdaey, Douglas Andrew, Ani Balabanyan, Nerses Karamanukyan, Arthur
    Kochnakyan, Martha Lawrence, Oliver Le Ber, Sue Rutledge, Ramin Shojai
    Human Development, Poverty Monitoring, Education, Health, and Social Protection
    Enis Baris, Susanna Hayrapetyan, Toby Linden, Nvard Manasian, Juan Manuel Moreno, Toomas
    Palu, Panagiota Panopoulou, Alexandra Posarac, Eluned Reobers-Schweitzer
    Natural Resource Management and Rural Economy
    Arusyak Alaverdyan, Richard Burcroff, Adriana Damianova, Giuseppe Fantozzi, Artavazd
    Hakobyan, Frauke Jungbluth, Gayane Minasyan
    Sector Staff
    Luca Barbone, Cheryl Gray, Carlos Felipe Jaramillo, Erika Jorgensen, Kazi Matin, Samuel Otoo
    Country Unit/Country Office
    Anthony Cholst, Donna Dowsett Coirolo, Naira Melkumyan, Peter Nicholas, Christian Petersen,
    Roger Robinson, Aristomene Varoudakis
    Legal and Disbursement
    Anarkan Akerova, Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner, Ida Car, Jean-Charles de Daruvar, Junko
    Funahashi
    Resource Management
    Natalia Karagulina, Oksana Mushtatenko, Vandana Pradhan, Alison Tregea
    Administrative and Public Relations
    Nelli Khachatryan, Zakia Nekaien-Nowrouz, Vigen Sargsyan

LEARN MORE

    More information on PRSC I »
    More information on PRSC II »
    More information on PRSC III »



                                                 Last updated: 2009-02-14




                          Permanent URL for this page: http://go.worldbank.org/UCEQVCFMM0
