                                       Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2540



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (TF-55089 TF-56121 TF-94590)



                                         ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         AND

          US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT (ADDITIONAL FINANCING)

                                        TO THE

    PALESTINIAN LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE
                      PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                         FOR A

                       TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT



                                      June 21, 2013




MNA Human Development Sector
West Bank and Gaza
Middle East and North Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective Israeli Sheqalim)

                                 Currency Unit =
                              ILS 1.00 ILS = US$0.27
                                US$1.00 = ILS 3.68

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1-December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AQAC     Accreditation and Quality Assurance Commission
BTM      Budget Trade-off Model
CASE     Council for the Advancement and Support of Education
CHE      Council for Higher Education
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
EAP      Education Action Project
EC       European Community
ESSP     Emergency Services Support Project
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
IT       Information Technology
MENA     Middle East and North Africa
MIS      Management Information System
MOEHE    Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOHE     Ministry of Higher Education
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PA       Palestinian Authority
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PPU      Palestine Polytechnic University
PTC      Project Technical Committee
QIF      Quality Improvement Fund
QU       Quality Unit
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SRLF     Student Revolving Loan Fund
TEI      Tertiary Education Institution
TEMIS    Tertiary Education Management Information System
TFGWB    Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WB&G     West Bank & Gaza




                                          ii
      Vice President: Inger Anderson
    Country Director: Mariam Sherman
     Sector Manager: Mourad Ezzine
Project Team Leader: Ernesto Cuadra
   ICR Team Leader: Ernesto Cuadra




                   iii
                                                        COUNTRY
                                                    West Bank And Gaza

                                           Project Name
                                WBG: TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                                     Table of Contents
    DATA SHEET
    A. BASIC INFORMATION ......................................................................................................... V
    B. KEY DATES ....................................................................................................................... V
    C. RATINGS SUMMARY .......................................................................................................... V
    D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES ............................................................................................. VI
    E. BANK STAFF ..................................................................................................................... VI
    F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS..................................................................................... VI
    G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN ISRS .................................................................. IX
    H. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY) ................................................................................................ IX
    I. DISBURSEMENT PROFILE .................................................................................................... X

    1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ............................................1
    2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ...........................................8
    3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES .............................................................................................12
    4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME .........................................................19
    5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................20
    6. LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................................................................22
    7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS ......23
    ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..........................................................................25
    ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT ....................................................................................26
    ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................................................28
    ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ........30
    ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS ...........................................................................32
    ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ...............................................36
    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ..................37
    ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ...............39
    ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ........................................................................40
    MAP ....................................................................................................................................41

 




                                                                     iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           WBG: Tertiary
Country:                West Bank and Gaza       Project Name:
                                                                           Education Project
                                                                           TF-55089,TF-
Project ID:             P083767                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           56121,TF-94590
ICR Date:               06/21/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 WBG
Original Total
                        USD 15.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 15.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 15.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Palestinian Authority Ministry of Higher Education Project Coordination Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Commission

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/21/2004     Effectiveness:
Appraisal:             01/27/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/26/2005     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                  20
Tertiary education                                                    80                  80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  33
Education for the knowledge economy                                   67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman                    Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine                        Regina Maria Bendokat
Project Team Leader:       Ernesto P. Cuadra                    Adriana Jaramillo
ICR Team Leader:           Ernesto P. Cuadra
ICR Primary Author:        Shahram Paksima


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are: 1) to improve the regulatory environment for
tertiary education management, governance and quality assurance; 2) increase internal
and external efficiency of the tertiary education system, as a first step towards achieving
sustainability; and 3) to create incentives and provide the basis for improvements in
efficiency, quality and relevance of tertiary education institutions in order to meet the
socioeconomic needs of the Palestinian population.




                                               vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                  Increased percentage of new entrants into priority program areas (defined by
Indicator 1 :
                  relevance to market and socio-economic needs).
Value
quantitative or   32%                       40%                                   42%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2012                            12/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Based on TEMIS statistical report of 010/2011.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increased percentage of new entrants into technical colleges.
Value
quantitative or   19%                       27%                                   27.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2004                12/31/2012                      12/04/2012
Comments        As reported by TEMIS statistical report of
(incl. %        2010/2011. These figure exclude information from the Open Education
achievement)    University.
                Improved sector policy development - measured by the preparation of a National
Indicator 3 :
                Tertiary Education Strategy.
                                                                          Current Strategy is
Value           No current National       National Tertiary               valid until 2013.
quantitative or Tertiary Education        Education Strategy              Update work with
Qualitative)    Strategy                  Prepared                        GIZ support is
                                                                          ongoing.
Date achieved 03/17/2005                  12/31/2012                      12/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     A National Higher Education Strategy has been prepared.
Value                                      The draft policy                 A revised TVET
(quantitative                              document and its                 Strategy was

                                                  vii
or Qualitative)                            implementation                     approved in
                                           plan                               November 2010. It
                                           should be                          was prepared with
                                           finalized, and                     GTZ support.
                                           discussed with
                                           TEIs.
Date achieved                              12/31/2012                         12/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        A national HE Strategy has yet to be formally adopted.
achievement)
                About 50 percent of universities and 30 percent of colleges have completed the
Indicator 2 : institutional self-assessment process and initiated institutional development plans
                by the end of the project.
                                           100% of
                                           universities and
                                                                              100% of
                                           71% of colleges
                                                                              universities, 71% of
                                           have been able to
                                                                              colleges have
                                           conduct the
                                                                              conducted
                                           institutional self-
                                                                              institutional self-
                                           assessment
                                                                              assessment
Value                                      exercise and
                                                                              exercise and
(quantitative                              produce their
                                                                              produce their
or Qualitative)                            institutional self-
                                                                              reports and
                                           assessment reports
                                                                              produce or revise
                                           and produce or
                                                                              their strategic plans
                                           revise
                                                                              based on the
                                           their strategic
                                                                              selfassessment
                                           plans based on the
                                                                              report.
                                           self-assessment
                                           report.
Date achieved                              12/31/2012                         06/19/2012
Comments        100% of universities, 71% of colleges have conducted institutional self-
(incl. %        assessment exercise and produce their reports and produce or revise their
achievement) strategic plans based on the self-assessment report.
                About70% of universities and 30% of colleges have received QIF grants.
Indicator 3 : Additionally, 50% of QIF eligible institutions are successful in receiving QIF
                grants by the end of the project.
                                           100% of                            100% of
                                           universities, since                universities and
                                           part of these                      33% of colleges
                                           projects are being                 benefited from QIF
                                           implemented in                     grants. Since part of
Value                                      partnership with                   these projects were
(quantitative                              the                                implemented in
or Qualitative)                            other colleges, the                partnership with
                                           actual percent of                  other
                                           colleges                           colleges, the actual
                                           benefiting.                        percent of colleges
                                           from QIF grants is                 benefiting from QIF
                                           about 50%.                         grants is about

                                               viii
                                                                           50%.
Date achieved                           12/31/2012                         06/19/2012
Comments      100% of universities and 33% of colleges benefited from QIF grants. Since part
(incl. %      of these projects were implemented in partnership with other colleges, the actual
achievement) percent of colleges benefiting from QIF grants is about 50%.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/07/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.00
  3     06/29/2006         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.04
  4     12/09/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.82
  5     06/26/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.11
  6     12/25/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.99
  7     04/02/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.36
  8     10/11/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.30
  9     04/17/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.66
 10     12/22/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     7.81
 11     04/13/2010         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     8.80
 12     01/12/2011         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   10.30
 13     10/21/2011         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   11.73
 14     07/02/2012         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            14.25
 15     12/23/2012         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   14.82


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background1

Despite adoption of “The Roadmap for Peace? in June 2003 by the Palestinian Authority
(PA) and the Government of Israel (GoI) and the promise to establish an independent
Palestinian state, the years following the agreement brought increasing political and
economic uncertainty and deterioration. In 2003, per capita real GDP was 38 percent
below its level of 1999, unemployment had reached 29 percent in the West Bank and 38
percent in Gaza, and the severely constrained business environment had very low
capacity to absorb new and increasingly less skilled and less productive entrants to the
labor market.

The tertiary education system in the West Bank and Gaza (WB&G) faced a number of
common and unique challenges which were affected by the larger socio-political context.
These included an ever-increasing demand for jobs from the growing population of
secondary education graduates, pressures to sustain the quality and relevance of academic
programs amidst increasingly difficult economic times, and persistent competition for a
share of public funds. Despite these challenges, the tertiary education system in the PA
had developed into a vibrant sector with 11 universities and 29 community (technical)
colleges with indicators comparable to middle-income countries (i.e., an enrollment rate
of 25 percent in 2003).

Despite fairly high overall government spending on education as a whole, public support
to tertiary education in the PA was at a low 5.6 percent of all education public
expenditures compared to the 30 percent average for Middle East and North Africa
(MENA) countries and 26.3 percent for OECD countries. This meant Palestinian families
have had to bear the burden of increasing student fees as tertiary education institutions
(TEIs) were often passing their increased costs on to students. All of this occurred while
the demand for tertiary education had more than tripled between 1995 and 2003. The
simultaneous increase in enrollment and decrease in spending resulted in a straining of
educational resources and decline in the quality of higher education. In addition, the lack
of relevance of programs offered was an increasing concern with a high proportion of
new students entering into programs such as the Social Sciences, Humanities, and
Education where there were already more students than the labor market could
reasonably employ.



1
 This and the next section are a synthesis of information taken from Sections A.1 and A.2 of the PAD, pgs
1-4.



                                                    1
A financing strategy in 2002 called for an increase in tuition fees, particularly for non-
priority fields, with the PA subsidizing 30 percent of costs in priority fields and an
increase in student aid programs. Student loans were selected by the Ministry of
Education and Higher Education (MOEHE) as the main mechanism to provide financial
support to students and scholarships for the neediest families and, as a result, the
MOEHE established the national Student Revolving Loan Fund (SRLF) under which
more than half of all students (60,000+) in 2004-2005 benefited from a loan or
scholarship.

In summary, the tertiary education system faced challenges related to financial
sustainability, efficiency in the management of available resources, relevance and quality
of supply, and lack of equitable distribution of student aid programs. In 2002, therefore,
the MOEHE responded to these critical challenges by developing, with technical
assistance from the World Bank, an overall higher education strategy with the aim of
making the system (i) more effective, (ii) accessible to students from low income
households, (iii) more relevant to Palestinian economic and development needs with a
more efficient and transparent use of resources, and (iv) financially sustainable.

Rationale for Bank involvement

The World Bank has played a key role in the WB&G from the early 1990s to the present,
seeking to bolster the PA’s analytical and policy work, and project design and
implementation capacity. The objective of the Bank’s assistance strategy for 2004-2005
called particularly for strengthening the capacities and financing for the delivery of basic
services to the poor. This included a special emphasis on the development of efficient
and transparent institutions in domains such as the PA ministries, the municipalities, the
TEIs, NGOs and the private sector. The TEP project was aligned with the World Bank’s
strategy in that it sought to strengthen the institutional framework of the PA, improve the
general capacity of universities and community colleges, and to enable the tertiary
education system to be more responsive to current labor market needs.

The World Bank’s WB&G portfolio demonstrated good performance, with an
exceptionally high disbursement ratio in FY03 due in part, as per the last Country
Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR), to the strong commitment and ownership by the
PA and the hands-on supervision provided by World Bank task teams. Early ownership
and commitment from the PA for this project was demonstrated by the adoption of many
of the policy reforms proposed in the earlier Higher Education Strategy, and the high
level of collaboration and participation from all stakeholders in the preparation of the
project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project development objectives as described in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) were: (1) to improve the policy-making environment for tertiary education
management, governance and quality assurance; (2) increase the internal and external



                                             2
efficiency of tertiary education institutions, as a first step towards achieving
sustainability; and (3) to create incentives and provide the basis for improvements in
efficiency, quality and relevance of tertiary education institutions in order to meet the
socioeconomic needs of the Palestinian Territories population.

The key indicators were described as follows:
    Increased percentage of new entrants into priority program areas (defined by
       relevance to market and socio-economic needs) from 32% in 2004 to 40% by
       2009.
    Increased percentage of new entrants into technical colleges from 19% in 2004 to
       27% by 2009.
    Improved sector policy development measured by preparation of a National
       Tertiary Education Strategy by the end of 2006.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Targeted Beneficiaries

The PAD identified three main types or groups of beneficiaries: (a) the Ministry of
Education and Higher Education (MOEHE) and other regulatory agencies in higher
education which were to be strengthened in their policymaking, governance, and
regulatory capacity to guide and oversee quality improvements in the higher education
sector; (b) universities which were to receive training and funding for quality-related
improvements; and (c) students, who were directly to be the recipients of an improved
and expanded student aid program and indirectly beneficiaries of increased educational
quality. Of particular note, in May 2012 the higher education portion of the MOEHE was
separated and a new Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) was created. The new MOHE
assumed full authority and responsibility for implementing the TEP project and continued
to interact with Bank supervision missions and all implementing agencies and TEIs.

Additional Beneficiaries

The project also sought to benefit society and the economy more broadly. Under the
project design, the PA would be in a better position to support Tertiary Education
Institutions (TEIs) in improving the skills of the workforce, developing an economy that
would be more competitive internationally, reducing poverty, and increasing social
development in the WB&G. This would all contribute to the development of a viable and
democratic Palestinian state and political system.


                                           3
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Strengthening the policy-making role of the MOEHE, CHE and
AQAC (US$2.4 million total, including contingencies)

The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity of the MOEHE, the Council
for Higher Education (CHE), and the National Accreditation and Quality Assurance
Commission (AQAC) to formulate, plan and monitor the tertiary education policy
framework for the WB&G.

Subcomponent 1.1 - Tertiary education policy development and management
The project will provide support to the Department of Planning at the MOEHE to review
the performance of the tertiary education sector as a whole. The Department’s capacity
will be developed to coordinate and devise plans and policies for the sector in
collaboration with stakeholders and development and cooperation agencies by:
     Establishing a Tertiary Education Planning Unit with local expertise and
       conducting study tours and training for the Unit and Department of Planning staff;
     Forming a Planning Committee; and
     Providing support to an expanded CHE

Subcomponent 1.2 - Support to the Accreditation and Quality Assurance
Commission (AQAC)

This subcomponent will provide technical assistance to enhance and reinforce the
MOEHE’s existing capacity to set quality and management standards able to meet and
compete with international standards for program and curriculum development,
student:teacher ratios, qualifications and status of faculty, student admissions, academic
performance, and monitoring and evaluation of programs. This subcomponent will:
     Support the existing independent accreditation and evaluation commission;
     Provide support to set up evaluation teams and conduct the evaluation of priority
        area programs through a peer review system; and
     Provide support for the AQAC to operate following international standards.

Subcomponent 1.3 - Support the establishment of a Tertiary Education
Management and Information System (TEMIS)

Based on the needs assessment on information technology (IT) conducted with financial
support from USAID, the project will support the MOEHE and TEIs to:
     Establish a system that will provide relevant and timely information on
        enrollments and fees, academic programs and standards, student aid programs,
        and financial status and employment rates of graduates of all institutions.
     Provide training and human resources to set up and manage the information system
        in an efficient way and improve its capacity to produce policy-relevant reports.

Component 2: Increasing the internal and external efficiency of tertiary education
institutions (US$1.3 million total, including contingencies)


                                            4
The objective of this component will be to improve the internal and external efficiency of
universities and technical colleges by:

Supporting institutional planning and management. Based on the Budget Trade-off Model
(BTM) designed for the preparation of the Financing Strategy in 2002 through the support
of a PHRD Grant, the model was updated and an institutional model was prepared.2 Use of
the BTM will allow institutions to plan and manage resources in a more efficient way.
Institutions will establish data hubs, either separately or embedded within their existing
planning units. These hubs will collect information from various departments or units and will
serve as the focal point for liaising with the Department of Planning at MOEHE. Universities
and colleges will receive support to start the strategic planning process. Over time,
institutions will move from simple benchmarking of performance to institutional
development plans to strategic planning.

Supporting institutional self-assessment and quality improvement. This activity will
provide support to enhance the capacity of universities and colleges to conduct
institutional self-evaluation and develop institutional improvement plans.

Component 3: Improving quality at tertiary education institutions (US$5.5 million,
total, including contingencies)

The main objective of the Quality Improvement Fund (QIF) is to provide support to
improve the quality of Palestinian TEIs and programs so they are (i) relevant to the job
market and economic development of WB&G; (ii) made competitive with international
standards; and (iii) capable of developing income-generating programs. The QIF is, therefore,
closely linked to the national accreditation process and the institutional self-evaluation
initiative. The QIF will facilitate a change of culture in the financing of tertiary education in
WB&G, the setting of national priorities in the sub-sector, and a new framework for the
relationship among TEIs, and between TEIs and the private and public sectors.

All TEIs (universities and technical colleges) in the WB&G which are licensed and
accredited by the MOEHE are eligible to apply for QIF grants and are dependent on the
TEI having an Institutional Plan for Quality Assurance and Self-Evaluation (which will
receive targeted funds under Component 2).

Component 4: Building capacity to improve and expand the student aid program
(US$0.8 million total, including contingencies)

The objective of this component is to improve the management and performance of the
student aid program. The Student Revolving Loan Fund (SRLF) is a critical element of the
financing strategy of the MOEHE and complements the tuition fees policy. It will do so by:


2
 TEIs later found the original BTM model too difficult to work with and they therefore worked with an
updated institutional model that was developed for the same purpose.



                                                   5
Improving management, structure and operation of the Student Revolving Loan Fund
(SRLF): The strategy will be to: (i) launch an awareness campaign to sensitize graduated
students about the program and expectations for repayment; (ii) develop a comprehensive list of
those with outstanding loans; and (iii) ask government departments for help in recovering funds.

Building a student aid program for the future: The new strategy will aim to optimize the
factors and instruments to achieve sustainability, equity and relevance. Criteria will be
developed for selection of students who are eligible to receive loans and grants linked
with MOEHE priority fields.

Governance: Transparency and objectivity are pre-requisites for the future student aid
program. It will need to be protected from political interference and be built on criteria
and rules ensuring equity. Therefore, the respective roles, mandates and status of (i) the
MOEHE, (ii) the SRLF management unit, (iii) the SRLF Board, and (iv) the TEIs will
need to be reviewed and the independence of the SRLF Board ensured.

1.6 Revised Components

The only major revision of the project components came from the cancellation of
Component Four—support for the Student Revolving Loan Fund (SRLF)—and re-
allocation of project funds to increase support for QIF-related funding, training activities,
and technical support. Although the need for Component Four was evident at project
entry, during the course of the project in early 2007, UNESCO took up funding of similar
activities. Therefore, after consultation with the Government, the project implementing
agency, and Bank supervision staff, it was determined that Component Four activities
would be largely duplicating UNESCO’s efforts, and therefore the project was
restructured.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project was amended eight times during the course of implementation. The three
most important and substantive amendments to the project were:

Amendment of March 27, 20063–amended the original Trust Fund agreement to provide
an additional EUR$5,000,000 of co-financing from the European Community (EC) for
consultants’ services and training under Component 2 (strengthening TEI capacity and
efficiency) and Component 3 (QIF grants and support).




3
    See “European Community Grant Agreement?, Grant Number TF056121 from March 27, 2006.


                                                 6
Amendment of March 30, 2007 4 –canceled Part D (Component 4) of the project,
“Capacity Building to Improve and Expand SRLF?, and authorized a re-allocation of
funds to other project components, particularly increasing funding for the QIF and related
consulting services.

Restructuring of May 28, 20095–amended and extended the Trust Fund Agreement to
provide Additional Financing in the amount of US$5,000,000 for continued support to
the QIF to support pre-service teacher training and additional “institutional strengthening?
that was not part of earlier rounds of QIF funding. In particular, it provided additional
funds for consultant, audit, and training services; additional QIF grants; and incremental
operating costs, and extended the project Closing Date to December 31, 2012.

The next two most important amendments were as follows:

Amendment of December 9, 2010 6 –amended the European Community Grant
Agreement dated March 27, 2006 by authorizing a reallocation of grant proceeds to
increase funding for Consultants’ Services and training and QIF Grants, and increased the
percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed by the grant.

Restructuring of December 29, 2010 7 –extended the project Closing Date for the
original funding from December 31, 2010 to October 30, 2011 and reallocated grant
proceeds (under Category 2 of the project) to increase funds for Consultant Services. In
particular, this was “essential to finance a first and thorough evaluation of ongoing
academic programs in Science and Humanities and schools of business in TEIs? which
would, “be useful for TEIs in the development and modification of their programs;
MOEHE in providing strategic direction for their support of TEIs; and AQAC in
informing their review and accreditation process?.

The remaining three amendments—of September 29, 2005; January 11, 2008; and
December 23, 2008—were regarding a new system to administer the QIF grants and
disbursements, and authorizations and stipulations for the establishment of special project
accounts and use of funds in different foreign currencies.




4
  See “West Bank and Gaza: TF055089, Tertiary Education Project, Amendment to the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement? from May 3, 2007.
5
  See “West Bank and Gaza—Gaza Emergency Response Additional Finance Program, Notification of
Board Approval, May 28, 2009? from June 4, 2009.
6
  See “West Bank and Gaza: European Community Grant Agreement Related to the Tertiary Education
Project (TF056121), Amendment to the EC Grant Agreement? from January 4, 2011.
7
  See “West Bank and Gaza: Tertiary Education Project: (TF055089), Extension of Closing Date and
Reallocation of Grant Proceeds? from December 30, 2010.


                                                 7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

As described in Section 4 of the PAD, project identification and design benefited from a
variety of sources. First, it benefited from lessons gained through preparation and
implementation of similar World Bank-financed higher education projects “in Vietnam,
Jamaica, Chile and Argentina, where support to the regulatory environment to manage the
tertiary education system and the introduction of competitive merit based environments for
the allocation of funds for universities and colleges have proven to be beneficial.?

Second, the project was based on three major sector analyses from between 1997 and
2002 which focused on financing, proposed future directions, and rationalization of the
higher education sector in the Palestinian Territories. Likewise, the project team drew
important lessons from policy documents of the World Bank entitled New Challenges for
Tertiary Education (2002) and Lifelong Learning in the Global Knowledge Economy
(2003).

Third, the project benefited from extensive sector work in 2002 that laid out parameters
for a financial strategy for the sector and different scenarios for seeking sustainability,
and a later PHRD Grant which updated this 2002 sector work and further assisted in the
setting up, preparation, and training of the project-related implementation units and
personnel—i.e., the QIF, the QIF Board, the Quality Units at the TEIs, the QIF manual,
QIF and Quality Unit staff, and members of the QIF Board.

Fourth, project identification and preparation benefited a great deal from a consultative
process with extensive stakeholder workshops, seminars, and training sessions where
considerable resources were used to explore and build consensus around various policy
options and to carefully explain the implications of each potential policy reform. This
included, in some cases, conducting study tours and attending international conferences
for senior MOEHE staff and university officials. Of particular note was an early study
visit financed through the PHRD Grant which contributed significantly to the design of
the QIF fund and AQAC, two central features of the TEP project.

Lastly, the project preparation team considered and ultimately rejected a few alternative
options on: (i) whether and how to allocate financial support for the SLRF, (ii) whether
the QIF grants should target universities alone rather than TEIs broadly defined, and (iii)
whether the project should allocate funds to provide support for capital investments.
Reasons for the rejections demonstrated lessons learned from work on previous World
Bank-financed projects, including using the Bank’s human and capital resources in their
areas of comparative advantage, in a way that would ultimately foster growth and
effectiveness across the whole tertiary sector.




                                                8
2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Project implementation overall was quite successful, as evidenced by the completion of
the vast majority of project activities, reaching most of the project’s targets on time, the
willingness of the EC to provide co-financing, and the additional and ongoing demand for
further rounds of QIF-related funding. This is especially notable given the challenging
political, economic, and social conditions within which the MOEHE and education
system exist.

Positive Implementation Factors

Implementation success was affected by a few key factors. First, through project
identification and preparation, there was a well-identified and prepared set of
implementing agencies covering everything from overall project oversight and guidance
to technical support and actual implementation support of project activities. The
MOEHE, and later the MOHE, were the main implementing agencies which in turn
worked with or through the Council for Higher Education, the MOEHE Department of
Planning, a Project Technical Committee (PTC) set up for the project, and the numerous
TEIs themselves. Next, the AQAC and the QIF Board provided continuous helpful
technical supervision. And lastly, day to day implementation was aided by a mostly well-
functioning set of units, including initially the QIF Support Team, and throughout the
project, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the PTC.

The PCU, which was built on a well-run Project Support Team from the previous WBG
Education Action Project (EAP), functioned well through the duration of the project.
According to page 11 of the PAD, it had responsibility for financial management and
procurement, preparation of quarterly and other progress reports, preparation of annual
work plans, and fiduciary advisory services and supervision to TEIs receiving grants.
The PTC, whose main responsibilities were to plan and approve overall project activities,
review project progress reports, and advise on how to increase the effectiveness of
implementation, functioned well for its first few years. However, over time, the PTC’s
influence was diluted due to lack of Ministry commitment to utilize it to its capacity and
for its initially intended purpose. The QIF “Technical Team?, whose main responsibility
was to assist the QIF Board in fulfilling its main duties and liaising with the PCU and
TEIs, started off well initially under strong leadership, but was perceived over time to be
less technically adept and more focused on administrative tasks.

Challenges to Implementation Success

The challenges to implementation came from three main sources. First, the ongoing
turbulent political environment and consequent heightened separation between West
Bank and Gaza often made implementation support, training, and supervision quite
challenging. For instance, in some cases, Gaza TEIs needed to participate in trainings via
videoconference, had to miss out on certain training programs, or could not participate in
certain aspects of the program at all. Second, the weak relationship between the previous


                                                9
Higher Education Department and MOHE Planning Unit and the PTC contributed in great
measure to the latter’s decreased effectiveness. This appears to have created some distance
between the MOHE senior leadership, the PCU, the QIF Board and other project-related
entities, and eventually led to a weakening of the MOHE’s capacity to directly affect the
quality of the project. And lastly, with six directors in about seven years, the QIF support
team experienced high leadership turnover which increasingly over time limited its ability to
provide consistent and effective technical support to the QIF Board, TEIs, and other related
implementing agencies.

Mid-term Review

A Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was carried out in May 2007, two and a half
years before the original project Closing Date of December 2009. Review findings are
summarized in the Aide Memoire of the MTR mission.

As noted in the MTR Aide Memoire, implementation progress up to that point was
progressing highly satisfactorily on Component 3, and the QIF, and PCU and MOEHE
staff members were respectively providing excellent project implementation support and
were “engaged in a learning process?. The Aide Memoire also mentioned that the newly
introduced competitive modality had been a notable achievement and had been “well
received by tertiary education institutions, and … MOEHE has been able to manage its
operation with transparency and professionalism?.           However, disbursements on
Components 1 and 2 were lagging and the MTR Aide Memoire attributed the lack of
progress on these policy and efficiency-related activities to the “political and economic
environment that has prevailed in WB&G?. In concert with wider donor discussions,
funds for Component 4 - support to the SLRF - were diverted to other components as
UNESCO expressed an interest in taking over these activities. Lastly, the MTR also
reported some guarded concern that the mission was not able to obtain statistical
evidence of progress against the project’s key indicators due to temporary staffing
weaknesses in the MOEHE’s planning apparatus.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design

As agreed during project preparation, and as described on page 11 of the PAD, the PCU
was responsible for monitoring outputs, outcomes, and impact of the overall project and
would submit its quarterly and annual reports to the PTC for their review and action.
All major agencies, such as the QIF Board, the AQAC, the SRLF Board and the Planning
Department involved in implementation, and all recipient TEIs were required to produce
annual reports to the PTC, which would in turn review these reports in light of the PCU’s
overall project progress reports. The format and design of the PCU progress reports were
agreed during the negotiations and were designed to monitor progress against the PDOs,
component by component. Annex 3 of the PAD describes by component the annual
targets, the frequency of the reports, data collection sources, and the responsible party.




                                             10
The project commissioned an external evaluation at the end of the first major round of
funding (US$10 million) in March 2011 and another at the end of the AF (US$5 million)
phase of the project in November 2012 (see section 3.6 below and Annexes 5 and 6).
Both evaluations sought input from major stakeholders and beneficiaries about the
outcomes to date and used a mix of qualitative and quantitative methods to assess the
efficiency, effectiveness, and relevance of project activities.

Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation and Utilization

By all accounts, the PCU performed its monitoring functions well and according to the
prescribed and agreed format. It closely monitored overall progress on outputs,
producing timely reports for the PTC and providing the donors with an important source
of supervision data. The Bank and government teams made regular and effective use of
these reports and this constituted the most important and consistent source of monitoring
information. However, with the weakening over time of the PTC, the use of the PCU’s
reports became less strategically tied to MOHE’s overall program guidance. As such,
some senior leadership in the MOEHE, and leadership and personnel of some TEIs and
the QIF Support Team report that senior MOHE leadership became distanced from direct
administration of the project over time and less able to provide strategic direction,
technical guidance, and fully effective oversight of the project.

Additional monitoring and evaluation of project activities and results came from two
external evaluations described in more depth below in section 3.6 of this ICR report. It is
noteworthy that the lessons identified in the first of those evaluations—conducted toward
the end of the first phase of funding—were taken into account during the AF phase and
contributed to the ongoing success of the pre-service teacher education cycle of funding.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The overall financial management risk for the project was rated high. As identified in
section D.3 of the PAD’s Appraisal Summary, the MOEHE’s finance department was to
be responsible for project financial management, with support from the PCU. Although
the MOEHE was described in the PAD as having an “acceptable FM system?, given the
scale of the project, since the MOEHE was about to undergo a major renovation of its
management information system, and given the PCU’s proven track record, it was
anticipated the PCU would assist the Ministry with overall project FM support. The PCU
did so, and ultimately ended up taking over most project management responsibilities.
The allocation of grants to universities and colleges was also identified as an initial
source of concern. As per page 16 of the PAD, the concern was regarding how the
MOEHE would handle everything from the original grant applications to their evaluation
and selection, and payments.

To remedy this situation, during project preparation, a comprehensive QIF operational
manual was developed which detailed all aspects of grant applications, evaluation
procedures, and, for successful candidates, the procedures and guidelines for accessing
advances on the eligible grants. As the project developed over time, the QIF manual was


                                                11
also updated and adapted to reflect ongoing lessons learned and to adjust to the
particulars of the activities being funded.

The PCU’s FM capacity was also strengthened to address the initial concerns by hiring an
FM Specialist who assisted the PCU Director and other staff in generating timely
financial management reports (FMRs), reviewing annual audit reports, and preparing
project financial statements. Evidence that this concern was adequately addressed early
on can be found in the Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire of May 2007 where the
Financial and Grants Officer was praised for being conversant with World Bank financial
management guidelines, the PCU’s computerized accounting system was commended
and described as fully operational, and its internal control system was described as “sound?.

As per section D.6 of the PAD’s Appraisal Summary, the project triggered none of the
ten possible safeguard policies.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

During the last several supervision missions, the Government indicated its interest in
continuing support of the QIF, strengthening AQAC and student loans support, and
strengthening research and innovation in higher education. They also expressed interest
in Bank support for development of policy-oriented options and a more detailed plan for
implementation of an overall integrated sector strategy. In the final stage of the TEP
project, discussions were ongoing to identify possible further Bank support to fund these
and other related activities which eventually led to the current follow up Education to
Work Transition Project built on the earlier strengthened institutional structures. More
recently, the MOHE has taken additional steps to further support and coordinate its
strategic efforts with the AQAC, CHE, and QIF Boards to ensure that the actions carried
out under the project deliver their intended longer term benefits.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of Project Objectives

As per the Section B.2 of the PAD, the general objectives of the project – “Improve the
policy-making environment for tertiary education management, governance and quality
assurance; Increase the internal and external efficiency of tertiary education institutions
as a first step towards achieving sustainability; and Create incentives and provide the
basis for improvements in quality, relevance and equity of tertiary education institutions
in order to meet the socio-economic needs of the Palestinian population? – were relevant
to the country’s needs at the time of appraisal, and continue to be relevant today. They


                                                12
were also consistent with the Bank’s assistance strategy for WB&G and consistent with
the interventions supported under other Bank-funded projects and numerous other
bilateral and multilateral aid agencies’ education and social development projects.

Relevance of Project Design and Implementation

Given the appropriateness of the project’s general objective, implementation experience
eventually showed that the project’s specific goals were appropriately designed. Even
Component 4 focusing on the SRLF support, which was eventually cancelled, was
effectively identified and prepared at project entry, delivered well initially, and was only
dropped in response to UNESCO’s interest in taking over funding of the component. By
doing so, the Bank avoided a duplication of efforts with another donor and was able to re-
direct the IDA funding to increase QIF support which was a main component. Annex 2
lists the six specific results that were sought under the project. Two of these, related to
improved policy development in higher education through the establishment of a
National Higher Education Strategy, have been nearly completed and are expected to
bring more strategic focus to the sector over time. Results from the remaining four,
aimed at improving TEIs’ systems of institutional self-assessment and building the
quality, relevance, and efficiency of their offerings, have been over-achieved among both
universities and colleges.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Project Outputs

The project made significant progress against its output goals, and even over-achieved
with regard to project targets in some areas (Annex 2), as evidenced in the table below.
Significant project outputs include the following:
    A National Higher Education Strategy has been prepared (although it awaits
        official adoption);
    100% of universities have conducted institutional self-assessment exercises,
        produced their reports, and produced or revised their strategic plans based on the
        self-assessment report;
    71% of colleges have conducted an institutional self-assessment exercise and
        produced their reports and produced or revised their strategic plans based on the
        self-assessment report;
    100% of universities benefited from QIF grants;
    33% of colleges benefited from QIF grants. However, since some of these
        projects were implemented in partnership with other colleges, the actual
        percentage of colleges benefiting from QIF grants is about 50%.




                                            13
Outcomes

Although the Result Framework from the PAD may not completely capture or describe
the linkages between the project outputs and actual project outcomes—especially in
relation to an improved policy making environment for tertiary education management—
there is significant evidence of progress against the project’s overall development
outcomes and linkages between project activities and outputs, intermediate indicators of
progress, and outcomes. For example:

      Component 1: the project’s initial and ongoing training and technical support
       activities for the AQAC, the MOEHE Planning Unit and PTC, the QIF Board, and
       the CHE, as well as the design support for the establishment of the TEMIS, were
       key project outputs that helped the MOEHE to create the foundation for key
       tertiary education institutions, defining roles and responsibilities for their
       members, and establishing a division of labor between each of them and the
       MOEHE. This has led to increased institutional capacity of the MOEHE and the
       tertiary education sector as a whole. Although the Planning Unit still lacks
       capacity for in-depth policy analysis, it has increased its capacity to reliably
       collect, manage, and present data. It is also in a significantly better position to
       provide future decision making support than before the project.

      Component 2: Bank support for the establishment and strengthening of TEI
       Quality Units and planning departments—through training on quality assurance,
       strategic planning, and the use of the financial planning model—clearly increased
       TEI capacity for institutional self-assessment, more effective approaches to
       quality assurance, and more efficient use of financial and other resources. This in
       turn increased individual TEI capacity to more strategically assess and respond to
       student and labor market demands and develop more relevant and efficient
       academic programs capable of meeting the social and economic needs of
       Palestinian society.

      Component 3: support for establishment and management of the QIF, as well as
       implementation of QIF-funded activities—through training and capacity building of
       original QIF Board, QIF Support team, and PCU members; assistance in the design
       of the QIF model and processes with its focus on rounds of carefully selected
       theme-based competitive funding; and guidance for development of the QIF
       manual—helped establish the institutional groundwork for one of the most effective
       components in the project. Without the TEP project, it would have been far more
       difficult for the MOHE to foster innovative and labor market relevant academic
       plans and practices. TEIs would also have had few incentives and little capacity to
       do so on their own. The project made important contributions to a more vital
       tertiary education sector.

As described in the table below, and in Annex 2, the vast majority of intermediate project
targets in education policies, programs, and processes were fully achieved and resulted in a
rich set of project outcomes. Implementation efforts by the Government and supervision


                                            14
efforts by the Bank reflected sufficient attention to these project outcomes throughout
implementation. The performance of project development objective indicators and
intermediate results indicators at closing are summarized in Table 1 (“Performance of PDO
Indicators?) and Table 2 (“Performance of Intermediate Indicators?). the following table.
A fuller record of accomplishments against project goals is presented in Annex 2.


                     TABLE 1—Performance of PDO Indicators
               PDO Indicator                      Status at Closing
Increase in new entrants of students into          Over Achieved. Based on TEMIS statistical
priority areas defined by relevance to market      report of 2010/2011, the project was successful
and socio-economic needs from 32% in               in increasing this to 42% of new entrants into
2004/05 to 40% by 2009/10.                         priority areas.

Increase of new entrants in colleges from 19%      Achieved. As reported by TEMIS statistical
in 2004/05 to 27% by 2009/10.                      report of 2010/2011, the actual percentage was
                                                   27.4. (These figures exclude information from
                                                   the Open Education University)
Improved policy formulation measured by            Mostly Achieved. A new strategy has been
preparation of Tertiary Education National         prepared; however, it currently awaiting
Strategy by end of 2006.                           official adoption.


                TABLE 2—Performance of Intermediate Indicators
      Intermediate Results Indicator             Status at Closing
A National Higher Education Strategy has been      Mostly Achieved. The Strategy has yet to be
prepared.                                          officially adopted
About 50 percent of universities and 30 percent    Achieved. 100% of universities, 71% of
of colleges have completed the institutional       colleges have conducted institutional self-
self-assessment process and initiated              assessment exercise and produce their reports
institutional development plans by the end of      and produce or revise their strategic plans
the project.                                       based on the self-assessment report.
About70% of universities and 30% of colleges       Achieved. 100% of universities and 33% of
have received QIF grants. Additionally, 50%        colleges benefited from QIF grants. Since parts
of QIF eligible institutions are successful in     of these projects were implemented in
receiving QIF grants by the end of the project     partnership with other colleges, the actual
                                                   percent of colleges benefiting from QIF grants
                                                   is about 50%.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

This ICR does not attempt to update the economic and financial analysis that was
provided in the PAD. Annex 9 of the PAD, which includes the Economic and Financial
Analysis, stipulates that there are strong potential social and economic benefits to the
project which would contribute to a strengthened tertiary education system more
specifically, and more broadly to a reduction in gender and other social inequities and



                                                  15
eventually increase the economic strength, viability, and relevance of a Palestinian
society. Although a great deal of the economic analysis focused on the eventually
disbanded support for the SRLF, it also established the basis and justification for the
project’s focus on increasing the tertiary system and TEIs’ relevance to the labor market
and income-generating activities.

In the absence of a more formal and in-depth financial analysis, the most appropriate
sources of information on the efficiency of project interventions and outcomes come from
evidence provided by the external project evaluations. According to the first external
evaluation, the project’s QIF-funded activities did indeed contribute to more efficient ties
between TEIs and the labor market in general. 8 While the study collected more
qualitative than quantitative responses, it makes clear that:

    (i) TEI graduates are indeed more employable than before the TEP project. For
      instance on pages 16 and 17 the study states, “QIF has invested its resources in
      educational programs that significantly increased employment opportunities. For
      example, in health professions such as midwifery and anesthesia, there is immediate
      demand and close to 100% employability for the graduates after studying for 2
      years. The same is the case for pharmacists, science lab technicians, and specialists
      in autotronics in Gaza…R&D relevant projects have not only had a short-term
      impact in terms of employability, but have the potential to be the backbone to build
      a more productive and competitive economy [and] QIF has provided some basic
      building blocks in that direction?.

    (ii) TEIs are becoming more efficient in seeking information from the labor market
       about its demands and then responding to them. As quoted on page 22 of the study,
       a manager of the Industry Synergy Center at Palestine Polytechnic University of
       Hebron stated, “Some TEI’s have now permanent dialogue with the local industry
       in order to make their educational programs relevant and to provide the labor
       market with the necessary skills. The relationship has improved significantly in a
       very short period of time thanks to QIF. TEIs are steering a few curricula towards
       the labor market needs given the positive experience with the QIF project(s). The
       majority of the university staff has realized and learnt the importance of keeping
       direct and ongoing communication channels with the market?.

    (iii) TEI’s have become more effective and efficient at sharing information about their
       “product? and students with the labor market. For instance, page 22 of the study
       states, “QIF has triggered a higher level of cooperation between certain industries
       and TEIs through graduation projects that directly serve the needs of the market.




8
 See “Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the Tertiary
Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011? of March 2011, published by the Palestinian
National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher Education.



                                                  16
       Another form of closer cooperation is through career days and fairs where students
       can interact with potential employers?.

Beyond this largely qualitative information, future in-depth studies—which were outside
the scope of the present ICR—would need to be conducted to provide more specific
quantitative assessments of the efficiency of project outcomes.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated as Satisfactory. This rating is based on the
following:

Relevance
       The project’s main development objective was highly relevant to the country and
        the tertiary education system’s needs at the time (and even now).
       There are no significant questions about the relevance of the largest components
        of the project as designed.
       While it was relevant given the context at the time of preparation, the original
        Component 4 supporting the SRLF was cancelled because UNESCO expressed an
        interest in taking over the funding for this component, and the Bank was able to
        re-allocate the IDA funding to increase support to the QIF (Component 3).The
        project included a satisfactory design for monitoring and evaluation.

Achievement of PDOs
       The project has achieved the vast majority of intended project outputs. In
        particular, it has either mostly achieved, achieved, or over achieved the targets of
        all six key project indicators.
       Most of the planned changes in TEI programs and education system governance
        under the project were actually implemented. The main outstanding exception to
        date is the lack of official adoption of the National Higher Education Strategy,
        which was prepared under the project, but has not been officially adopted or
        implemented by the MOEHE.
       There is ample evidence that training provided under the project led to improved
        skills and application of those skills to improved quality assurance, institutional
        self-assessment, development of more effective strategic plans, and a re-
        orientation of many curricular offerings and research activities on the basis of
        market relevance.

Efficiency
       The available quantitative and qualitative evaluation-related evidence suggests
        that the project’s outcomes have contributed to increased efficiency in the



                                             17
        relationship between the tertiary education system, students, and the Palestinian
        Territories labor market and society.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project addresses poverty and social development indirectly. While it does not
specifically address gender and other social equity-related factors directly, it does seek to
improve the strength and ability of the tertiary education system to provide a wider range
of graduates with more market-relevant skills, to increase the market-relevance of TEI
programs to match the local labor market needs, and to broaden access to higher
education to a wider group of Palestinians across a wider range of TEIs. This was
particularly successful in Gaza where project participants reported an expansion of
opportunities for Gazan, and particularly female Gazan, university students as a result of
QIF-funded programs and activities.

As an important element in the Palestinian Territories society, therefore, achievement by
the MOEHE and TEIs of most of the project’s development objectives is contributing to
improving the welfare of a growing number of the Palestinian Territories’ more
marginalized populations. With further follow up by the PA and the MOHE, the growing
strength and relevance of tertiary education could potentially be an important part of the
Palestinian Territories’ future economic vitality.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Institutional strengthening was a major element of this project. At the system level, the
MOEHE’s capacity to govern and regulate the tertiary education system has certainly
been enhanced through better management of education data and information and
promotion and supervision of more relevant and better quality higher education outputs.
While there is evidence that AQAC could be further strengthened institutionally, it has
worked reasonably well with individual Quality Units at most of the TEIs which have in
turn become much more effective in conducting institutional self-assessment and tying
their future plans to these assessments, as well as becoming much more aware of the
importance and culture of quality assurance. TEIs as a whole have indeed become at
least more aware of orienting their research and academic offerings to the requirements
of the local labor market, and in a number of cases are in a position where they have
actively started doing so and have participated in some modest income generating
activities. And finally, in addition to the increased market relevance of many of their
programs, all TEIs have the structures and processes in place where they can now more
effectively assess and address the quality of their current academic programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.


                                               18
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Two external evaluations—including beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops as
part of each—were conducted as part of the project. The first was conducted in March
2011 toward the end of the initial financing phase, and another in November 2012 at the
end of the AF phase when the project was officially coming to an end.

The first evaluation focused primarily on the QIF project component (Component 3),
examining the relevance of QIF-funded grants to the job market, the extent to which the
QIF grants helped make TEIs more competitive according to international standards of
education, and whether TEIs were more capable of developing income-generating
programs. It found that the QIF had indeed assisted TEIs in becoming “highly relevant to
the labor market?. Despite the need for “more investment and qualified [Human
Resources]?, it had partially achieved the objective of establishing international standards
through improved infrastructure and improved curricula, but had not yet succeeded in
developing self-sustaining or significant income-generating higher education programs
(see further details in Section 3.3 above and Annexes 5 and 6).

The second evaluation focused exclusively on the QIF-funded “Pre-Service Teacher
Education Program?. It found it was too early to assess the project’s long term impact;
the foundation for effective change had been set in place with changes in curriculum of
pre-service programs but was not yet fully realized since the changes had not translated
into sustained changes in teaching practice; all the project activities were completed in a
reasonably efficient manner, but the quality of these outputs varied by subject and output
type; the funded project activities were indeed relevant to the QIF cycle; and, despite the
need for concerted follow up efforts, “there were some clear indicators for the
sustainability of some components in each project?.9

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project was implemented, and continues to exist, in an environment of moderate to
significant overall risk. According to the original PAD, “the tertiary education system
faces challenges related to financial sustainability, efficiency in the management of the
resources available, relevance and quality of the supply, and lack of equitable distribution
of student aid programs? (page 3). Likewise, despite the technical merits of the project,
political instability created a challenging socio-political environment within which
tertiary education reforms became even more difficult to sustain.




9
  See page 36 of “Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) on the Higher Education Sector and the
Labor Market: Tertiary Education Project-Additional Finance, Pre-Service Teacher Education Programs?
from December 2012, published by the Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.



                                                 19
Risks to the development outcomes are primarily of a political, financial, and institutional
nature. Politically, as per the PAD, “Continued closures, curfews, and incursions worsen
access to universities and community colleges, making it difficult or impossible to attain
project objectives.? Financially, given the PA’s ongoing reliance on donor assistance,
there is a significant risk that donors may decide to discontinue supporting tertiary
reforms—or at least those related to this project—at any time in the future.
Institutionally, the newly re-created MOHE faces the challenges of any new ministry as it
seeks to further define its roles, responsibilities, and authority in relation to other higher
education entities such as the AQAC, the MOE, and—particularly—the fledgling CHE
and as it internally re-structures itself to provide the necessary technical inputs and
oversight to sustain and build on the project outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The design
strengths described above (Section 2.1 and 3.1)—including appropriate targets for reform
of higher education regulatory processes and TEIs’ academic programs, effective design
of implementation structures and selection and preparation of a various implementing
agencies, consistency between the PDO and the project’s intended intermediate outputs,
and the presence of suitable baselines and effective monitoring and implementation for
evaluation of outputs—reflect Bank staff strengths and management performance during
project preparation. Despite some occasional challenges and the cancellation of support
for the SRLF, the balance of project activities and intermediate results was consistently
positive over time; the QIF-funded cycles were administered in a professional way; and
the PCU, MOEHE and other related entities provided consistent, accurate, and thorough
required quarterly and annual reports. These strengths contributed to the largely positive
results during implementation, including the attraction of co-financing from the EC and
the later round of Additional Financing (AF) for support of teacher education.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision was facilitated by a well thought out and strong monitoring and evaluation
mechanism with regular and timely reporting arrangements that the Recipient and the
Bank jointly put in place. Implementation progress was monitored by the TTLs and
relevant international technical staff, and the Bank teams based in the West Bank and
Gaza offices provided thorough and effective follow up support to all borrower
implementing agencies.




                                                   20
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The rating for overall Bank performance is Satisfactory, reflecting the combined ratings
for Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government performance for the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. As
noted above, after the initial project phases where the PTC was established and operated
according to the original project design, the subsequent lack of regular ongoing meetings
and functioning of the PTC and the MOEHE’s eventual abandonment of it as a rigorous
technical oversight entity created a detrimental gap between the Ministry and the rest of
the project, which some MOEHE, TEI, and project personnel have cited as an obstacle to
the building of ongoing sector capacity, engagement in project activities, and ownership
of project outcomes. This appears to have contributed to a lack of clear engagement in the
project’s aims to improve the sector’s quality assurance and quality enhancement entities
and mechanisms. For instance, the MOHE’s recent ambivalence about the appointment
and role of the most recent AQAC director, and the MOHE’s failure to follow up on the
graduate tracking instrument developed under the project suggests a lack of clarity about
its desired approach to this important project component.

In addition, despite significant donor efforts to work with the MOEHE on the
development of a tertiary education strategy, the MOEHE has yet to fully implement the
strategy as it was intended and as many in the sector believe it should be. This suggests a
lack of clarity or vision on the Government’s part and a somewhat less-than-full
commitment to all the project objectives, or at least to the approaches taken.

And lastly, project implementation in the more recent QIF funding cycles has been
slightly less effective due to a lack of staff continuity on the QIF support team. In
particular, frequent changes of its leadership—six directors in seven years—have
contributed to a lack of fully effective support to the QIF board and its limited ability to
fully engage on more technical matters with TEIs during the application and
implementation phases of the later QIF funding cycles. This put increasing pressure on
the PCU to take up a great deal of the technical support slack and limited the QIF team’s
ability to truly engage in technical dialogue with the QIF board as well as the team’s
ability to provide effective technical follow up on the Board’s activities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The implementing agency performance for the project is rated as Highly Satisfactory.
The PCU leadership and staff, through all the project phases and personnel changes, has
performed consistently well in its oversight of financial management, procurement,
technical support, and liaising with the various government, TEI, and other implementing
entities. In particular, its training and preparation for, as well as the implementation of,


                                            21
institutional self-assessment and strategic planning was largely handled quite effectively.
The PCU has been consistently responsive to efforts by the Bank supervision teams to
bring important issues to the attention of MOEHE and other officials, and has
consistently performed its monitoring and evaluation duties producing timely, accurate,
and effective quarterly and annual progress reports on project outcomes and required
auditing reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating for overall Borrower performance is Satisfactory, based on the ratings
presented above.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Well-structured and designed Quality Improvement Funds for tertiary education can be a
powerful instrument and force to promote quality improvement and stimulate innovation.

Component 3 supporting the QIF was one of the most successful aspects of the project.
Through its competitive modality, the extensive support to applicant institutions, theme-
based rounds of funding, and the requirement to compete for continued funding, TEIs were
incentivized and have indeed started developing a culture of improvement that has increased
the quality and relevance of their programs. This novel type of tertiary education funding,
which would likely have been absent in the Palestinian Territories without the TEP project,
truly opened up Palestinian TEIs to the outside tertiary education world, fostered closer links
between TEIs and business and industry, in some cases allowed them to attract back talented
faculty and researchers in the diaspora community, and helped establish the basis for
innovative academic practices and applied research. Ongoing funding for the QIF—whether
internal or external—is indeed a pressing challenge that will need to be addressed by the
MOHE and international donor community. However, the project’s fairly significant
impacts demonstrate that well-designed and supported instruments based on a competitive
modality such as the QIF can indeed play an important role in an overall strategy to
strengthen TEIs and MOHEs in their ability to increase the quality, relevance, and efficiency
of higher education.

The Bank, Borrower, and Implementing Teams’ continuity and skills mix are crucial to
effective implementation.

The project’s overall implementation success was positively affected by the quality and
consistency of the Bank technical and supervision staff and the PCU’s personnel and
leadership. It was negatively affected by some staffing and institutional decisions for
other project-related government entities—such as the QIF Support Team. The initial
quality of the project preparation, as well as the ongoing implementation supervision with
seamless Bank team leader transitions over time, benefitted from team leaders who were
Senior or Lead Education Specialists with solid technical and lending operations



                                              22
experience. Likewise, there was solid operational support through all project phases with
at least one locally-based Senior Operations Officer providing ongoing continuity
through the whole project. The project’s ability to attract significant co-financing and a
round of Additional Financing is evidence of this success. The low staff turnover
(continuity) and high skills of PCU personnel and leadership were directly related to: (i)
the high quality of its project support to the Bank, TEIs, and the QIF Board and Support
Team; (ii) its effective handling of the majority of FM and procurement-related
responsibilities; and (iii) the timeliness and quality of progress and audit reports. By
contrast, the previously cited high turnover of the QIF Support Team leadership has at
times affected the quality of its technical support to the QIF Board and to the participating
TEIs, which led to more of a burden on the PCU.

If designed and implemented properly, well-planned study visits and ongoing
collaboration with external technical experts and institutions are an important part of an
overall strategy to build capacity of actors in the tertiary education system.

The initial study visits during project preparation and initiation, which were part of the
establishment and preparation of the QIF and AQAC, were critical to the project’s early
and ongoing success. The study visits provided participants with an invaluable source of
new knowledge and information, exposed them to new ways of thinking and methods of
interaction, and allowed them the opportunity away from the regular political and time
pressures they normally faced to explore and discuss different technical and logistical
project options before becoming officially adopted. Numerous program participants
indicated that the close and ongoing interactions with external professional colleagues
provided them with critical knowledge and experience they would almost certainly not
have received any other way than through the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments received from the Government (PCU) fall into two categories. First, they
clarified some key project dates and disbursement figures which have been incorporated
here accordingly. For instance, they provided the most updated figures for actual
disbursements in Annex 1 and clarified that the “Restructuring of December 29, 2010?
mentioned in Section 1.7 of the ICR in fact extended the project Closing Date to October
30, 2011 rather than December 31, 2010.

The second set of comments were more operationally oriented. For instance, they
clarified that the BTM financial model mentioned in Section 1.5, “Original Components
(as approved)?, was originally recommended and considered, but was eventually not used
since it wasn’t seen by TEIs as being user-friendly. An additional comment requested
inclusion of a sub-component for “project management through [the] PCU? also in
Section 1.5. The first of these two comments related to the modifications on the BTM
financial model was included as a footnote since this was a later program development
and not part of the original project components. The latter of these two comments has



                                             23
been noted and discussed by the project team but not formally incorporated since project
management through the PCU was only listed as a component on the costing tables but
not as a separate formal project component by itself in the PAD.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD million)                           Appraisal
                                                        million)
Component 1: Strengthen Policy-
                                         2.22                4.2               189.2
making Bodies
Component 2: Institutional
                                         1.15                2.5               217.4
Capacity Building
Component 3: Improve Quality of
                                         5.5               14.5                263.6
TEIs
Component 4: Improve Student
                                           .72                .4                56
Aid Scheme
            Total Baseline Cost          9.59              21.6                225.2
Physical Contingencies
                                          0.20                0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies
                                          0.20                0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs         10.00               21.6              216
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                0.00              .00
     Total Financing Required            10.00               21.6              216




 (b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                       Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                        million)       million)
Borrower                            0.00           0.00          .00
IDA Special Financing               10.00          10            100
IDA Additional Financing            5.00           5.00          100
European Community                  5.9            6.6           112




                                            25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


             Tertiary Education Project (TEP) & Additional Financing (AF)
                             Key Performance Indicators10

                                                   Key
               Objective                       Performance          Baseline           End of Project
                                                Indicators
                                             Outcome/Impact
Project Development Objective                   Indicator                         Target         Actual
Improvement of policy making                 Increase in new        32%          40%          42%11
environment and governance of the            entrants of students
tertiary education system, and increased     into priority areas
quality, equity and relevance of service     defined by
delivery.                                    relevance to market
                                             and socio-economic
                                             needs from 32% in
                                             2004/05 to 40% by
                                             2009/10.
                                             Increase of new        19%          27%          27.4%12
                                             entrants in colleges
                                             from 19% in
                                             2004/05 to 27% by
                                             2009/10.
                                             Improved policy        No           National     Current
                                             formulation            current      Tertiary     Strategy is
                                             measured by            National     Education    valid until
                                             preparation of         Tertiary     Strategy     2013. Update
                                             Tertiary Education     Education    prepared     work with
                                             National Strategy      Strategy                  GIZ is
                                             by end of 2006.                                  currently
                                                                                              ongoing.

                                                                                   End of Project
       Project Outputs                      Output            Baseline
                                           Indicators                           Target        Actual
MOEHE, AQAC and CHE to              A National Higher                     The draft          A revised
start a system level reform to      Education Strategy                    policy             TVET
improve efficiency, quality,        has been prepared.                    document and       Strategy was
equity and relevance of tertiary                                          its                approved in
institutions.                                                             implementation     November
                                                                          plan               2010. It
                                                                          should be          was prepared
                                                                          finalized,         with
                                                                          and discussed      GTZ support,
                                                                          with               but the current


10
    Baseline figures are from the PAD Annex 3, pg. 33, “Results Framework and Monitoring?.
11
   Based on figures provided by the Ministry of Education to the most recent ISR mission (November 2012)
based on TEMIS Statistical Report of 2010/2011.
12
   Idem


                                                     26
                                                          TEIs.              Higher
                                                                             Education
                                                                             Strategy has
                                                                             yet to be
                                                                             formally
                                                                             adopted.
Tertiary Institutions Management   About 50 percent of    100% of            100% of
Capacity and Efficiency            universities and 30    universities       universities,
Improved.                          percent of colleges    and 71% of         71% of
                                   have completed the     colleges have      colleges have
                                   institutional self-    been able to       conducted
                                   assessment process     conduct the        institutional
                                   and initiated          institutional      self-
                                   institutional          self-assessment    assessment
                                   development plans      exercise and       exercise and
                                   by the end of the      produce their      produce their
                                   project.               institutional      reports and
                                                          self-assessment    produce or
                                                          reports and        revise their
                                                          produce or         strategic plans
                                                          revise their       based on the
                                                          strategic plans    self-
                                                          based on the       assessment
                                                          self-assessment    report.
                                                          report
Quality and relevance of           About70% of            About70% of        100% of
programs offered by Tertiary       universities and       universities       universities
institutions is improved.          30% of colleges        and 30% of         and 33% of
                                   have received QIF      colleges           colleges
                                   grants.                have received      benefited from
                                   Additionally, 50%      QIF grants.        QIF grants.
                                   of QIF eligible        Additionally,      Since part of
                                   institutions are       50% of QIF         these projects
                                   successful in          eligible           were
                                   receiving QIF          institutions are   implemented
                                   grants by the end of   successful in      in partnership
                                   the project.           receiving QIF      with other
                                                          grants by the      colleges, the
                                                          end of the         actual percent
                                                          project.           of colleges
                                                                             benefiting
                                                                             from QIF
                                                                             grants is about
                                                                             50%.




                                                  27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

This ICR does not attempt to update the economic and financial analysis that was
provided in the PAD, and a more formal and in-depth economic analysis of project
outcomes was neither part of the originally expected project activities nor possible as part
of this ICR. However, Annex 9 of the PAD, which includes the Economic and Financial
Analysis, stipulates there were strong potential social and economic benefits to the
project which would contribute to a strengthened tertiary education system more
specifically, and more broadly to a reduction in gender and other social inequities and
would eventually increase the economic strength, viability, and relevance of a Palestinian
society. Although a great deal of the economic analysis focused on the eventually
disbanded support for the SRLF, it also established the basis and justification for the
project’s focus on increasing the tertiary system and TEIs’ relevance to the labor market
and capacity for income-generating activities.

In the absence of a more formal and in-depth financial analysis, the most appropriate
sources of information on the efficiency of project interventions and outcomes come from
evidence provided by the external project evaluations. According to the first external
evaluation, the project’s QIF-funded activities did indeed contribute to more efficient ties
between TEIs and the labor market in general. 13 While the study does not provide
specific quantitative micro-data on how efficiently this was done in each TEI case, it
makes clear that TEI graduates are indeed more employable than before, that TEIs have
become better at sharing information about their “product? with the labor market, and
that TEIs are becoming more efficient in seeking information from the labor market
about its demands and then responding to them. In addition, the study does, however,
provide an overall broad rating of the financial “sustainability? of the QIF-funded
programs in West Bank and Gaza.14 Accordingly, it states that 2 percent of the QIF
projects to that point were “highly sustainable?—meaning the project was “exceeding
initial objectives due to high income generation?—and 74 percent were “sustainable?—
meaning the “projects continue through sufficient funding and/or income generating
activities?. The remaining 24 percent of projects were “partially sustainable?, meaning
“more funding [is] needed to become sustainable; no income generating activities?.

The Palestine Polytechnic University (PPU) in Hebron is a good example of a TEI which
has established more efficient and responsive ties with the labor market and re-oriented
many of its academic programs accordingly. Through its self-assessment and quality
assurance efforts, its improved strategic planning, and QIF funding, the PPU has
established a highly successful, sustainable, and income-generating Biotechnology
Training and Research Center and an Industrial Synergy Center. Both of these centers



13
    See page 23 of “Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the
Tertiary Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011? of March 2011, published by the
Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
14
   Idem, pages 28-30.


                                                 28
respond to market-demanded needs, are linked with specific academic departments, and
provide students with opportunities to work on real life, income-generating projects.

Beyond this, future studies—which were outside the scope of the present ICR—would
need to be conducted to provide more specific assessments of the efficiency of project
outcomes.




                                         29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                            Title              Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Mae Chu Chang               Lead Education Specialist        EASHE
Celine Gavach               Senior Operations Officer        AFTDE
Luis Guillermo Hakim        Consultant                       MNSHD
Adriana Jaramillo           Senior Education Specialist      MNSHE TTL
Salam Kanaan                Operations Analyst               MNSHD
Suha Rabah                  Program Assistant                MNCGZ ACS
Stefanie Stallmeister       Senior Strategy and Operations   ECAVP

Supervision/ICR
Afaf Khalil Abbasi          Procurement Specialist           MNAPC Procurement
Ayed A. Abu Ramadan         E T Consultant                   MNAPC
Abdallah Awad               Information Officer              MNCGZ
Ali Awais                   Consultant                       MNCA4
Siaka Bakayoko              Country Manager                  AFTOS
Maha Muhammad Bali          Program Assistant                MNCGZ ACS
Hyacinth D. Brown           Division Manager                 CTRLA
Ernesto P. Cuadra           Lead Education Specialist        MNSHE TTL
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein   Senior Financial Management
                                                             MNAFM FM
El-Shorbagi                 Specialist
Emma Paulette Etori         Program Assistant                MNSHD ACS
Luca Etter                  Junior Professional Associate    MNSSP
Lina Fathallah Rajoub       Procurement Specialist           MNAPC Procurement
Grace B. Ghattas            Temporary                        MNSHD ACS
Samira Ahmed Hillis         Senior Operations Officer        MNSSP
Adriana Jaramillo           Senior Education Specialist      MNSHE TTL
Jacques L'Ecuyer            Consultant                       MNSHD
Ahmed Merzouk               Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS Procurement
Eileen Murray               Country Manager                  MNCTN
Adel Fahed J. Odeh          Operations Analyst               MNCGZ
Suha Rabah                  Program Assistant                MNCGZ ACS
Suhair M. Saah              Consultant                       MNAFM
Christina D. Wright         Operations Officer               MNSHE
Shahram Paksima             Education Specialist             MNSHE ICR Author




                                            30
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      27.7                     106.40
  FY05                                      61.5                     260.1
  FY09                                       2.1                      20.4
  FY10                                       0.4                       2.2
                          Total:            89.7                     389.1
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                     24.9                        65.5
 FY07                                     34.1                       103.5
 FY08                                     26.8                        89.3
 FY09                                     19.2                        70
 FY10                                     14.2                        63.7
 FY11                                     15.0                        76.5
 FY12                                     15.0                        74.4
 FY13                                     13.8                        80.8
                          Total:         163.0                       623.7




                                       31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

The project financed the following two external evaluations, whose methodologies and
main findings are summarized here below. Please use the citations at the beginning of
each section below to find the full documents.

“Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the
Tertiary Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011?. March 2011.
Published by the Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher
Education.

Summary of Methodology (taken from the document)

The evaluation methodology draws together evidence from document analysis and
qualitative interviews with key informants and beneficiaries. Data were first documented
and analyzed in individual project reports (IPRs) and subsequently synthesized in this
final report. The key evaluation questions are summarized in the Evaluation Framework
consisting of eight evaluation questions (EQ) as outlined in the Inception Report. See
Annex D of the full report.

The evaluator used the following tools to collect qualitative data:

      Semi-structured interviews with relevant stakeholders, including the QIF
       management (PCU and QIF Unit) and QIF Board members; management staff at
       the TEIs; Heads of Quality Units; consultants and trainers; graduates and employers
       for each individual project.

      Focus group discussions with project staff working permanently at three TEIs
        being the largest institutions with most of the QF projects (i.e., Birzeit University
        in the Ramallah area, An-Najah University in the northern part of the West Bank,
        and the PPU in Hebron).15

      The interview and focus group results were analyzed and synthesized into
       individual project reports for each project (32 in the West Bank and 13 in Gaza)
       while brainstorming with field staff and team leaders to extract knowledge from
       observations and their own reasoning in accordance with the key evaluation criteria.

      The focus groups were carried out through a structured question-answer
       technique with four main questions, which were aiming at getting information on
       the impact of the QIF projects on the institutional capacity building on the TEIs



15
 The planned FG at the IU could not be carried out due to time constraints among the IU staff. Instead, the Field
Worker in Gaza conducted an in-depth interview with the QU manager at IU.




                                                         32
      itself. The four questions were related to the impact of QIF on the institutions as a
      whole, to the uniqueness of QIF as a mechanism and to the sustainability of QIF
      projects. The last question was related to recommendations and ideas for future QIF
      interventions. See Annex C

Whenever applicable, the field team visited all project sites, inspecting the equipment
and testing the applications.

Summary of the Main Findings

The evaluation focused primarily on the QIF project component (Component 3),
examining the relevance of QIF-funded grants to the job market, the extent to which the
QIF grants helped make TEIs more competitive according to international standards of
education, and whether TEIs were more capable of developing income-generating
programs. It found that the QIF had indeed assisted TEIs in becoming “highly relevant to
the labor market?; despite the need for “more investment and qualified [Human
Resources]?, it had partially achieved the objective of establishing international standards
through improved infrastructure and improved curricula, but had not yet succeeded in
developing self-sustaining or significant income-generating higher education programs.

The project’s QIF-funded activities did indeed contribute to more efficient ties between
TEIs and the labor market in general. 16 While the study does not provide specific
quantitative micro-data on how efficiently this was done in each TEI case, it makes clear
that TEI graduates are indeed more employable than before, that TEIs have become better
at sharing information about their “product? with the labor market, and that TEIs are
becoming more efficient in seeking information from the labor market about its demands
and then responding to them. In addition, the study does, however, provide an overall
broad rating of the financial “sustainability? of the QIF-funded programs in West Bank
and Gaza.17 Accordingly, it states that 2 percent of the QIF projects to that point were
“highly sustainable?—meaning the project was “exceeding initial objectives due to high
income generation?—and 74 percent were “sustainable?—meaning the “projects continue
through sufficient funding and/or income generating activities?. The remaining 24
percent of projects were “partially sustainable?, meaning “more funding [is] needed to
become sustainable; no income generating activities?.




16
    See page 23 of “Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the
Tertiary Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011? of March 2011, published by the
Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
17
   Idem, pages 28-30.


                                                 33
“Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) on the Higher Education Sector and
the Labor Market: Tertiary Education Project-Additional Finance, Pre-Service
Teacher Education Programs?. December 2012. Published by the Palestinian National
Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.

Summary of Methodology (taken from the document)

2. Evaluation Framework
This section presents the objectives of this evaluation and the research questions. In
addition, it presents the evaluation matrix of the projects and ends with providing a
detailed description about the evaluation tools.

2.1 Evaluation Objectives and Research Questions
The objective of this evaluation is to provide guidance and support to the Quality
Improvement Fund Unit (QIF) and the Projects Coordination Unit (PCU) in addition to
the World Bank and the Ministry of Higher Education regarding the realization and the
quality of the projects’ impact, outcome and outputs.

In this evaluation, five components which were translated into the following main
Research Questions (RQ) were subject to investigation:

Component 1: Impact
RQ 1: To what extent the overall objectives (direct and indirect) are achieved or
contribute towards the long term goals of the projects based on the key performance
indicators?

Component 2: Effectiveness
RQ 2: To what extent the objective (main outcome) of the projects is achieved based on
the key performance indicators?

Component 3: Efficiency
RQ 3: To what extent: (i) are the projects outputs realized (ii) do the projects outputs
meet the quality standards?

Component 4: Relevance
RQ 3: To what extent: (i) are the projects outputs realized (ii) do the projects outputs
meet the quality standards?

Component 5: Sustainability
RQ 5: Whether there are indictors for (i) maintaining the outcomes, goals and products
and (ii) institutionalizing the process after QIF support has ceased. In other words, to
what extent the projects are able to sustain its benefits without donor support and which
factors support the sustainability or the lack of sustainability of the projects.




                                           34
2.2 Evaluation Matrix
The evaluator started the process by conducting a preliminary document review. In this
regard, the following documents were reviewed:
- Operations Manual, the Quality Improvement Fund (QIF) for Palestinian Tertiary
Education
- Tertiary Education Project – Additional Financing (TF094590 GZ)-Quality
Improvement Fund- Call for Proposals # 01/2010.
 - Concept Note about QIF 1st cycle- (Additional Financing for TEP – QIF Grants).
- Projects Proposals.
- Progress reports and related documents for each project.
- QIF annual report- 2011.
- Minutes of QIF Board meetings.

Summary of the Main Findings

The evaluation found it was too early to assess the project’s long term impact; the
foundation for effective change had been set in place with changes in curriculum of pre-
service programs but was not yet fully realized since the changes had not translated into
sustained changes in teaching practice; all the project activities were completed in a
reasonably efficient manner, but the quality of these outputs varied by subject and output
type; the funded project activities were indeed relevant to the QIF cycle; and, despite the
need for concerted follow up efforts, “there were some clear indicators for the
sustainability of some components in each project?.18




18
   See page 36 of “Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) on the Higher Education Sector and the
Labor Market: Tertiary Education Project-Additional Finance, Pre-Service Teacher Education Programs?
from December 2012, published by the Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.



                                                 35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following is the Executive Summary taken from the Borrower’s ICR19:

Executive Summary with Project Development Objective and Status of the Key
Performance Indicators

This report summarizes the main achievements made under the Tertiary Education
Project and the Additional Financing different components and related activities
throughout the project lifetime which was completed on October 30, 2011 and December
31, 2012 respectively. The TEP was launched on July 1st, 2005 and was expected to close
by December 31st, 2009; several extensions were made so that the project co-financed
with the EC fund was completed on December 31st, 2010. The remaining activities
related to the World Bank fund were completed on October 30, 2011.

The World Bank has also made available an Additional Financing to the Tertiary
Education Project in the amount of US$ 5.0 million to support the implementation of the
Teacher Education Strategy through the Quality Improvement Fund (QIF). The TEP-AF
grant agreement (TF094590) was signed on July 14th, 2009, declared effective on July
17th, 2009 and was completed on December 31st, 2012.

All activities under the EC agreement were completed by December 31st, 2010 (mainly
components two and three), while activities under the IDA were completed by October
31st, 2011; mainly activities within component 1 related to the evaluation of academic
programs in Humanities, Science and Schools of Business. The TEP-AF was completed
on December 31st, 2012.

Disbursement under the original co-financed TEP and the afterwards AF can be
summarized as follows:

     1. Total disbursement under the TEP until February 29th, 2012 is 16,171,443.70
        USD from both IDA and EC funds as follows:
     a) 9,704,180.54 USD from IDA: knowing that the original grant for the IDA was
        10,000,000 USD, which means that there has been currency exchange loss of
        295,819.46 USD)
     b) 6,467,263.16 USD from the EC: knowing that according to the client connection,
        the originally approved amount under the EC grant is equivalent of
        US$ 5,906,950.00 while historical disbursed is 6,686,025.80, which was
        reflected as gain that TEIs/ grant recipients have benefited from.
     c) This has resulted in changing the percent of the EC and IDA funds under
        both components throughout the project life time.



19
  For the full Borrower’s ICR, see: “Final Report for the Tertiary Education Project (TEP) - TF055089 &
TF056121 and Additional Financing TF094590?, of May 7, 2013, written by the Project Coordination Unit
of the Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.


                                                  37
    2. Total Disbursement under the TEP-AF until April 30th, 2013 is 4,936,101.95 USD,
       the difference of 63,898.05 USD from the Grant Agreement of 5,000,000 USD is
       currency differential (loss) because of GBP-USD exchange rate variances.

Institutional Self Assessment and Strategic Planning Grants under component 2 to 20
higher education leading institutes were completed as planned. Moreover, 9
supplementary fund grants were approved to 9 TEIs to enhance weaknesses or support
strengths mentioned in their strategic planning reports and as stated in self assessment
and strategic planning guidelines.

The TEP has made the opportunity to all Palestinian Territories TEIs to experience the
preparation of an institutional self-assessment exercise and build a strategic plan for these
institutes based on the results of the self-assessment reports. This is considered as the
baseline where institutes can build on and repeat this experience regularly.

Total disbursement under sub grants of component 2 until February 29th, 2012 (the grace
period of the IDA portion of the project) is US$ 2,224,051.72 (US$ 1,127,795.43 from
IDA and US$ 1,096,256.29 from EC).

Component 3 also showed great achievements. 45 projects within five cycles were
granted under the original TEP, in addition to another 8 projects granted under the TEP-
AF. QIF component showed great enthusiasm by TEIs to make this experience unique
and successful. The following outcome indicators, which are beyond the expected
indicators stipulated in the project grant agreement, can illustrate this point:

   51% of eligible institutions, which represent 21 institutions, succeeded to receive and
    implement QIF grants;
   100% of universities implemented QIF grants;
   33% of colleges implemented QIF grants. However since part of these projects were
    being implemented in partnership with the other colleges, the actual percent of
    colleges benefited from QIF grants is about 50%
   Eight new programs in priority areas were introduced and are still implemented;
   About 24 partnerships with private sector, public sector, or other TEIs have been
    developed.

Total Disbursement within the original TEP under this component until February 29th
2012 is US$ 10,193,102.51 from both IDA and EC funds (US$ 4,822,095.64 from IDA
and US$ 5,371,006.87 from EC). While total disbursement under the TEP-AF for this
component until the end of the grace period April 30th, 2013 is 4,189,568.87 USD.

The PCU and QIF unit have been always following up closely and intensively with all
grant recipients to make sure all the procurement and financial procedures are followed
properly, and that activities are being implemented according to the implementation plan
and the planned outcomes and in line with the planned time schedule.




                                             38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the West Bank and Gaza Tertiary
      Education Project – March 17, 2005.
   2. European Community Grant Agreement – Grant Number TF056121 – March 27,
      2006.
   3. West Bank and Gaza: TF055089, Tertiary Education Project, Amendment to the
      Trust Fund Grant Agreement – May 3, 2007.
   4. West Bank and Gaza—Gaza Emergency Response Additional Finance Program,
      Notification of Board Approval – May 28, 2009 – June 4, 2009.
   5. West Bank and Gaza: European Community Grant Agreement Related to the
      Tertiary Education Project (TF056121), Amendment to the EC Grant Agreement
      – January 4, 2011.
   6. West Bank and Gaza: Tertiary Education Project: (TF055089), Extension of
      Closing Date and Reallocation of Grant Proceeds – December 30, 2010.
   7. Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the
      Tertiary Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011 – March 2011 –
      Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
   8. Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) on the Higher Education Sector and
      the Labor Market: Tertiary Education Project-Additional Finance, Pre-Service
      Teacher Education Programs? – Page 36 – December 2012 – Palestinian National
      Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.
   9. ISR Mission Report – November 2012.
   10. Assessing and Evaluating the Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) of the
       Tertiary Education Project (TEP): Final Evaluation Report 2011 – Page 23-30 –
       March 2011 – Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of Education and Higher
       Education.
   11. Quality Improvement Fund Component (QIF) on the Higher Education Sector and
       the Labor Market: Tertiary Education Project-Additional Finance, Pre-Service
       Teacher Education Programs – Page 36 – December 2012 – Palestinian National
       Authority-Ministry of Higher Education.
   12. Borrower’s ICR – Final Report for the Tertiary Education Project (TEP) -
       TF055089 & TF056121 and Additional Financing TF094590 – May 7, 2013 –
       Project Coordination Unit of the Palestinian National Authority-Ministry of
       Higher Education.




                                        40
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
