                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 29779

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-43940)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                            FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                         FOR A

               DISEASE SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL PROJECT (VIGISUS I)




                                      October 28, 2004




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                  R$0.91 = US$ 1.00 (August 1998 - Appraisal)
                                US$ 1.00 = R$3.74

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFP          Acute Flaccid Paralysis
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BSL          Bio-safety Level
CDC          Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S. Dept. of Health
             and Human Services)
CENEPI       Centro Nacional da Epidemiología (Epidemiology Center)
DESAI        Departamento de Saúde Indígena (Department of Indigenous
             Health)
FUNAI        Fundação Nacional do Indio (National Indian Foundation)
FUNASA       Fundação de Saúde (Health Foundation)
GPS          Geographical Positioning System
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LAC          Latin America and the Caribbean
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOH          Ministry of Health
NCD          Non-Communicable Diseases
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization (Regional Office of WHO)
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
POA          Plan Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
SARS         Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SINAN        Sistema de Informação de Agravos de Notificação (National Notifiable Disease
             Information System)
SPIV         Sistema de Planejamento e Informação do Projeto VIGISUS (Planning and
             Information System
SUS          Sistema Unico de Saúde (Unified Health System)
SVS          Secretaria de Vigilancia de Saúde (Secretariat for Health
             Surveillance)
UAT          Unidade Apoio Técnico (State Project Implementation Unit)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO       United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization

                          Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                        Country Director     Vinod Thomas
                          Sector Director    Ana-María Arriagada
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Isabella Danel

                                           BRAZIL
                        BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Summary of Sub-project Disbursement and Execution                       34
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 35
Annex 10. Endnotes                                                               45

Project ID: P043874                                                  Project Name: BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -
                                                                     VIGISUS
Team Leader: Gerard Martin La Forgia                                 TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-43940
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Indigenous peoples (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/26/1997                                     Effective: 01/17/1999                02/17/1999
     Appraisal: 01/22/1998                                         MTR: 09/15/2000                  10/08/2001
      Approval: 09/17/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF HEALTH (MOH)
                                           through Fundação Nacional de Saúde
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier E. Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Isabella Danel                                 Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
ICR Primary Author:             Isabella Danel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The Brazil Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS I) was the first of a three-phase
    US$600.0 million Adaptable Program Loan (APL) that was designed to improve and strengthen the
    national disease surveillance1/ (see Annex 10) and control system to contribute to the reduction of
   mortality and morbidity resulting from communicable diseases. The VIGISUS Program consists of
   three projects phased in over eight years that would help the Government of Brazil strengthen its
   national public health surveillance system through: (i) the improvement of the data management
   telecommunications system; (ii) the rehabilitation of the public health laboratory network; and (iii) the
   training of staff. In addition, the program would support disease prevention and control in the Amazon
   Region and for indigenous populations.

   The program was initiated in the context of the consolidation of the Sistema Unico de Saúde (Unified
   Health System, SUS - created in 1989), which included decentralization of its management to states
   and municipalities. At that time, the national surveillance and disease control system had a positive
   20-year track record, but it was overly bureaucratic and in need of modernization to help improve
   efficiency. The centralized system consisted of a series of parallel vertical disease control programs
   that were independent of each other and the surveillance system was largely limited to communicable
   diseases. During preparation of this project, it was considered unlikely that the first phase of VIGISUS
   could have an impact on morbidity and mortality outcomes in such a short time, and therefore the focus
   of VIGISUS I was on process indicators and strengthening the structures and programs, including
   human resource capacity, which are necessary to carry out surveillance and disease control. The
   development objective of VIGISUS I Project was to develop and test a viable framework for the new
   national surveillance system. Once the system was strengthened, its activities would be more likely to
   lead to reductions in the incidence and prevalence of communicable diseases2/ (see Annex 10). This was
    the first World Bank-financed project entirely dedicated to the development of a public health
    surveillance and disease control system.

    The VIGISUS Program complemented an array of government programs and actions to improve the
    detection, notification and response to specific diseases and health events, evaluation of public health
    practices and application of information and analysis to prevention and control interventions. The
    program included an indigenous health subcomponent focused on upgrading the service delivery
    system, creating the institutional framework for the management and oversight of this system and
    implementing the essential features of a public health surveillance system in indigenous areas.

    The development objective of VIGISUS I was relevant to the Borrower and to the Bank.
    Communicable disease control was and continues to be a national Brazilian health priority and a World
    Bank corporate priority. A well-functioning public health surveillance system at all levels of the health
    system (national, state, and municipal) is crucial to the control and prevention of communicable
    diseases. Furthermore, developing institutional capacity in surveillance was considered important for
    preparing the country to address its looming health problems related to non-communicable disease and
    injuries. The first phase supported some efforts in this area, but it was to be more clearly addressed in
    the following phases. The focus of the communicable disease control activities in the first phase was in
    the nine Amazon states where morbidity and mortality were higher compared to other areas, yet
    institutional capacity was less developed. Finally, while only a small portion of project financing, the
    support to indigenous populations was potentially equity-enhancing and highly relevant and timely.




                                                     - 2 -

    Success in achieving program objectives was to be measured by using a variety of primarily process
    indicators. There were seven trigger indicators to indicate passage from phase I to phase II, some of
    which, in retrospect, were overly ambitious. Yet, while these indicators contributed to the need for
    several project extensions, they also encouraged significant advances in the development of Brazil's
    surveillance system during the first phase.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The project's development objective remained relevant and was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
    The VIGISUS I Project consisted of three components: (i) strengthening the national surveillance
    system; (ii) strengthening disease control in selected areas; and (iii) project administration, for a total
    project cost of US$200.0 million, financed by a US$100.0 million IBRD loan and US$100.0 in
    Government counterpart contribution, including contributions from states and municipalities.

    Component 1. Strengthening of National Surveillance System
    Cost:         At Appraisal: US$141.0 million (71.5 percent)
    This component would to strengthen the national public health surveillance system through: (i)
    improvements of the data management telecommunications system, particularly at the municipal level
    (municipalities would present subproject proposals in accordance with population-based eligibility
    criteria in the Operational Manual, demonstrating the need for equipment and capacity to maintain it);
    (ii) rehabilitation, expansion and equipping of the laboratory network, cold storage, and environmental
    surveillance facilities; (iii) training of municipal, state and federal staff in epidemiology, laboratory
    reporting, laboratory biosafety, environmental surveillance, and management; (iv) support for studies
    and operational research in epidemiological surveillance; and (v) provide technical assistance to help
    municipalities and states in subproject preparation, appraisal, supervision, and procurement.

    Component 2: Strengthening of Disease Control in Selected Areas
    Cost:         At Appraisal: US$44.0 million (22 percent)
    This component had two subcomponents: (i) improving disease surveillance and control in the nine
    states of the Amazon Region, particularly among municipalities with high incidence of communicable
    diseases, and (ii) improved indigenous health in all states with a significant indigenous population. It
    was expected that there would be a significant participation of Non-governmental Organizations
    (NGOs).

    Disease Control in the Amazon Region. Improved disease control in the nine states of Amazon Region
    was to be achieved through: (i) rehabilitation, expansion and equipping of public health laboratories
    and other facilities; (ii) boats and vehicles; (iii) training of 540 community health agents, management
    training for about 50 public health officials, and training of 90 technicians in communicable disease
    surveillance and control; (iv) antimalarial drugs and reagent kits for the diagnosis of hepatitis,
    leishmaniasis, and malaria; and (v) technical assistance.

    Indigenous Health. Indigenous health was to be improved through: (i) rehabilitation and equipping of
    health centers, health posts, environmental health, and other health facilities adapted to the indigenous
    culture; (ii) various equipment (boats, engines, vehicles, geographical positioning systems-GPS); (iii)
    training of 1,000 indigenous health agents; and iv) technical assistance.

    Component 3: Project Administration
    Cost:         At Appraisal: US$15.0 million (7.5 percent)


                                                         - 3 -

    This component was designed to help finance the administrative and operating costs of the Project
    Coordination Unit (PCU), including: (i) financing of the PCU consultants; (ii) travel; (iii)training; (iv)
    equipment, and (v) other administrative expenses (materials, etc).

    The project was partially pre-designed (national activities) and partially implemented on the basis of
    subprojects presented by decentralized institutions (state, municipal, NGOs). The pre-designed portion
    represented about 40 percent of project costs at appraisal, and the sub-projects represented 60 percent
    of project costs. To ensure that subprojects would fit within the overall framework, comply with the
    norms of the Fundação Nacional de Saúde (National Health Foundation, FUNASA)3/ (see Annex 10)
    and were properly targeted, they were prepared and evaluated according to eligibility and evaluation
    criteria included in the Operational Manual and approved by the Bank.

    The component design was clearly linked to the project's development objective and to achievement of
    its triggers and indicators. The project incorporated lessons learned from previous Bank-financed
    projects in Brazil: the Amazon Basin Malaria (Loan 3072-BR, April 21, 1989) and the Northeast
    Endemic Disease Control (Loan 2931-BR, January 19, 1988), including the suggestions that: (i) the
    project should have broader institutional and disease control objectives; (ii) malaria and other endemic
    diseases would remain issues in the Amazon Basin; and (iii) the states and municipalities of the
    Amazon region continued to require institutional strengthening. Based on the previous malaria project,
    early diagnosis and treatment replaced the traditional approach of mosquito eradication.

    However, based on the difficulties encountered during implementation, the introduction of subprojects
    to be presented by decentralized agencies was flawed from the outset because of contradictory Bank
    and country procurement and contractual regulations, the huge number of eligible municipalities, and
    the complexity of evaluating and monitoring so many subprojects in the context of weak state
    (sub-national) capacity.

    In the original design, public health surveillance activities were carried out by the Centro de
    Epidemiología (Epidemiology Center, CENEPI), a department within FUNASA, while indigenous
    health activities were carried out by the Department de Saúde Indígena (Department of Indigenous
    Health, DESAI), a separate department within FUNASA. By the end of the project, surveillance
    activities were transferred to the MOH, so these two areas essentially became two separate projects.
    Nevertheless, given the government's desire to focus some of its surveillance and disease control
    activities in indigenous communities and the structure of FUNASA at the time the project was
    prepared, the design was appropriate.

3.4 Revised Components:
    N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    Satisfactory. The Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the relevance of the project objective
    to country priorities, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1998), international development
    priorities and conformity with the Bank's safeguard policies, in particular the Indigenous Peoples
    Development Plan. A QAG assessment was not carried out at the time of project initiation.

    The project supported the objectives of the CAS by assisting the government in fulfilling its role as the
    source of public goods by strengthening the public health surveillance system, an essential public
    health function and part of the government's domain. It helped the government in its transition from



                                                     - 4 -

    health care provider to health care regulator by strengthening health system management capacity in
    the area of surveillance and disease control at all levels of government. In addition, it contributed to
    the CAS objective of improving the quality of the public heath care system that serves the poor by
    improving health services for indigenous people. It also improved an important source of health
    information that is vital for effective decision-making for epidemic control and the prevention of
    transmission of communicable diseases that are generally more prevalent in poor communities.

    The project was relevant to international development priorities since it focused on the prevention and
    control of communicable diseases including vaccine-preventable diseases, malaria, tuberculosis,
    leprosy and dengue, among others. Appropriately, the project did not focus on vertical disease-specific
    programs, but rather strengthened the institutional infrastructure and human resource capacity
    necessary to address priority communicable diseases in the present and provide the basis for addressing
    emerging and reemerging diseases that the country may need to face in the future.

    The difficulty in achieving the Bio-safety Level (BSL) 3 laboratory trigger (rehabilitation of nine
    laboratories to BSL3) suggests that in hindsight, this was too ambitious to be an appropriate trigger
    indicator. BSL 3 laboratories are considered a very important contribution to laboratory worker safety
    and an important element in modernizing Brazil's laboratories, thereby better preparing the surveillance
    system to face emerging diseases such as SARS.
    However, given that there was very little Bank experience in this area, it would have been difficult to
    predict the technical and operational complexities encountered in the rehabilitation of these
    laboratories. In fact, the staff preparing the project thought it would be one of the easier triggers to
    achieve.

    The project design included steps to mitigate the impact of issues noted in previous projects, such as
    poor project implementation arrangements, including cumbersome Bank and MOH procedures.
    However, these steps were not as effective as both the Borrower and Bank would have liked, and
    cumbersome procedures remained a major issue throughout the entire first phase of the project. The
    project involved strengthening an essential public health function that is only carried out by the public
    sector. In the case of Brazil, it was being strengthened in the context of rapid decentralization. As noted
    in Section 3.3, the subproject design that aimed to strengthen state and municipal surveillance systems
    was flawed from the start.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    Satisfactory. The achievement of outcome under VIGISUS I is rated satisfactory since a viable
    framework for the national disease surveillance and control system was developed and tested. Given
    this achievement, the second phase of this program (VIGISUS II, Loan 7227-BR) was approved in
    May 2004. The approval of the second phase was based on the achievement of the trigger indicators as
    follows: Four of the seven indicators for passage to Phase II were fully achieved or surpassed (as
    defined at the beginning of the project); one was revised (#5 below)4/ (see annex 10) and fully achieved;
    one was partially achieved (#3 below); and one was not achieved (#7 below). In addition, nine out of
    ten process indicators were achieved or surpassed with two having been revised. (See Annex 1).

    Trigger Indicators for Phase II:
    Five of seven trigger indicators for passage to Phase II were fully met and one was partially met.
    1. At least 50 candidates trained under the "Basic Principles of Outbreak Investigation" course:
    Surpassed: 138 candidates trained.



                                                       - 5 -

2. At least 200 superior-level and 100 mid-level staff trained in laboratory bio-safety: Surpassed:
1,576 superior- and 1,632 mid-level staff trained.
3. Nine national reference laboratories rehabilitated and equipped to BSL 3: Partially met: As of
July 2004 seven BSL3 laboratories have been fully completed, two have blueprints completed and
await construction, and two are being designed.
4. Data and coding standards for the national surveillance system are properly defined: Achieved:
Fully complied and applied to all states.
5. Laboratory module associated with new notifiable diseases reporting system (SINAN) operational
for one disease in at least 20 national or macroregional public health laboratories: Surpassed:
Laboratory module implemented for two diseases (Acute Flaccid Paralysis-AFP and yellow fever) in
24 state laboratories.
6.   300 indigenous community health agents trained: Surpassed: 2,730 trained.
7.   The number of cases of tuberculosis (TB) cured in the Amazon Region increased by at least 10
percent: Unmet: While some states met or surpassed this target, the overall percentage of cases
cured did not increase.

While the trigger for development of national coding standards for the national surveillance system and
the three training triggers were quickly attained, fulfillment of the other three more ambitious triggers
was more difficult. The laboratory module for the SINAN trigger had to be rewritten for one disease
and the actual outcome was for only two diseases instead of for all diseases as originally planned. The
tuberculosis trigger was not met. It was hampered by the fact that shortly after VIGISUS 1 was
launched, the TB program was unexpectedly moved out of CENEPI and into the MOH / Primary Care
Department, making it very difficult to have an impact on TB monitoring and control activities.

Laboratory rehabilitation to BSL 3 was also problematic. There was a lack of understanding among
both the government and the Bank of just how complicated it would be to upgrade 9 national reference
laboratories to BSL 3. The government did not initiate the work early enough and it went slowly.
Complicated Bank procurement and contractual processes also caused delays. It took a full year until a
bid for the design of the laboratories was prepared and approved with delays by both government
(lengthy preparation, need for rewrites) and Bank (lengthy no objections). Eventually, the MOH
contracted a specialist to work solely on BSL3 laboratories ­ and this helped accelerate the process.
The difficulties with this activity were one of the main reasons the project required two Closing Date
extensions. However, despite this challenging learning process, the upgrading of these labs to BSL 3
for Brazil is a significant achievement. The lessons learned from this experience are currently being
applied in Argentina where a Bank-financed project is also supporting laboratory upgrades to BSL 3.

As noted previously, the design of VIGISUS I focused on improvements in the processes involved in
disease surveillance and control during the first phase rather than on the actual outcomes. In addition to
the trigger indicators noted above, 9 out of 10 process indicators were also achieved (Annex 1). The
project successfully executed activities in Component 1, particularly those related to training.
VIGISUS I had a clear impact on improving infrastructure, fostering more efficient processes through
improved communication and information technology, and building capacity. Despite the fact that an
impact on health outcomes was not expected by the end of VIGISUS I, in fact, there was a reduction in
morbidity and mortality in Brazil during this time period, including a profound reduction in malaria
incidence, measles and rabies and an increase in the number of leishmaniasis cases reported ­ an
important first step in bringing this disease under control. During this time, the government invested
heavily in these activities and the result cannot be attributed solely to the project. However, the project
contributed to these positive outcomes by providing resources for training, laboratories, and
communication.


                                                  - 6 -

    This first phase of the VIGUSUS Program succeeded in strengthening capacity and infrastructure,
    particularly at the federal level, thus positioning it well for its second phase, which was approved in
    May 2004, where there will be a much greater emphasis on strengthening state and municipal capacity.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Component 1. Strengthening of National Surveillance System. Satisfactory

   This component was designed to strengthen the national public health surveillance system through: (i)
   improvement of the data management telecommunications system; (ii) rehabilitation of the laboratory
   network; and (iii) training of staff. The component was implemented in its entirety and most of the
   investments were made as planned. All trigger and output indicators for this component were achieved
   or surpassed with the exception of the BSL laboratories noted above. (See Annex 1).

   The data management telecommunications system was upgraded and modernized and by the end of the
   project, all states and 4,950 of the 5,000 municipalities were providing surveillance information
   (disease occurrence, investigation, confirmation, and control activities) for diseases on the mandatory
   disease notification list on a regular (at least monthly) basis. All states and 1,300 municipalities were
   using a Windows-based system and reporting by e-mail, others were mailing in diskettes. These
   upgrades have produced more timely information and have increased the likelihood of more timely
   disease control interventions.

   The public health laboratory network was also modernized. By the end of the project, a laboratory
   information system for reporting two notifiable diseases was piloted (AFP/polio and yellow fever), 11
   border laboratories were built and equipped, 23 state laboratories were upgraded to BSL 2, and 7 of 9
   originally planned laboratories were upgraded to BSL 3.

   Training of staff was a very important element of VIGISUS I and most indicators and outputs related
   to training were surpassed (see Annex 1). Large numbers of staff, at many different levels of
   professional development, were trained in a variety of aspects of epidemiology, surveillance, outbreak
   investigation, and management. VIGISUS 1 also financed a very successful collaboration with CDC
   that included training in applied epidemiology and data for decision-making. The successful
   collaboration with CDC will continue in VIGISUS 2.

   Another major achievement was the establishment of an environmental health surveillance system,
   which had not previously existed in Brazil. The system began by developing water quality surveillance
   that was fully implemented in all states and many municipalities by the end of the project. Reporting is
   now taking place and work is being carried out to ensure that information collected is utilized to
   improve water quality and prevent water-related diseases. Air quality surveillance has also begun in
   several key areas and soil quality surveillance is being established. A needs assessment was carried out
   in all the states and will be utilized to strengthen environmental health surveillance at the state level
   during VIGISUS II.

   Sub-project agreements with states and municipalities totaled approximately US$54.1 million (159
   million Brazilian Reals). By June 30, 2004 US$ 46 million had been disbursed and 41 million had been
   executed (see Annex 8). The provision of resources and assistance to the states and municipalities
   under VIGISUS I was less successful than expected, mainly due to two problems. First, the use of
   convenios as financial instruments to transfer resources from the federal government to state and
   municipal governments was extremely cumbersome and inflexible and resulted in less than expected


                                                      - 7 -

execution of available resources. This was due in part to the lengthy time required to prepare and sign
the convenio, Bank procurement rules that were different from Brazilian rules and assimilated with
difficulty by the states much less the municipalities, and weak management capacity at the state and
municipal level resulting in the slow execution of resources. Second, the investments financed by the
convenios were fragmented and not placed in the context of a coherent plan to develop surveillance and
disease control at the state and municipal levels, but rather used the financing in an unsystematic way
to make large purchases (vehicles, computers) and fund training. The lack of an effective monitoring
and evaluation system for this activity seriously limited the ability to evaluate the investments made
and to assess the impact that they may have had on state and municipal strengthening.

In addition, the MOH often found its hands tied by rigid Bank constraints, which created difficulties in
funding key public institutions that were important to strengthening the public health surveillance
system, including public health training centers to become part of a training network and collaborating
centers in areas such as maternal and child health, aging, and violence that were meant to be focal point
and provide concentrated expertise in their given subject areas. Building public health institutions for
training and research requires investing in public agencies including universities, which have developed
expertise in particular areas of public health. In the case of Brazil, this meant the selection of
institutions according to their expertise, in different regions of the country. Problems occurred because
the original procurement arrangements failed to define the exact participative role of the many
institutions that are developing technologies and studies to enhance disease prevention and control in
Brazil. The MOH gave these entities a profile of consulting firm, hired through its own competitive
procedures specifically designed to identify and support the best disease surveillance and control
proposals by competing agencies. These "concursos" consisted of a quality-based selection that was
not comparable to the Bank's Quality-and Cost-based Selection procedures, mainly because the "
concursos" do not use short listing nor the standard request for proposals. Arrangements were
eventually worked out with the Bank to permit financing for the collaborating centers. The loan
agreement was amended December 2002, to define these institutions as beneficiaries under the
components. However, a solution was not found to finance (with IBRD) the training network that the
MOH wanted to create to build capacity in a more sustainable way. After a lengthy delay, the
government decided to fund the training network with its own budgetary resources.

A similar situation occurred with the financing of operational research projects. The Brazilians used a
standard procedure employed by most developed countries to call for and evaluate research proposals.
However, while the Bank provided an exception to its rules for the first round of research projects, it
would not provide an exception for the second round and insisted that standard Bank procurement
procedures for the selection and contracting of research proposals take place. Given this situation, the
government decided to finance the research projects with its own resources.

Component 2: Strengthening of Disease Control in Selected Areas. Satisfactory

This component was designed to: (i) improve disease control in the Amazon Region; and (ii) improve
indigenous health. Overall this component achieved most of its output indicators. The Amazon Region
disease control sub-component achieved most of its outputs, but not the trigger related to tuberculosis
control and only partially the indicator for hepatitis vaccination (See Annex 1). In the case of
indigenous health, the project surpassed all expected outputs and has been essential in the development
of a participatory indigenous health system.

Disease Control in the Amazon Region. (Satisfactory) The first subcomponent financed
infrastructure, equipment, vehicles and boats, and training needed to improve disease control in the


                                                   - 8 -

Amazon Region. Efforts were limited to the 329 municipalities where the incidence of communicable
diseases was the highest. The government targeted five endemic diseases with a high case-fatality rate,
epidemic potential and effective cost control measures, including: malaria, TB, leprosy, leishmaniasis,
and hepatitis B. Later, dengue was added. Malaria activities expected to be financed under VIGISUS I
were instead primarily financed by the government, which launched a massive malaria control effort
during this time period. This effort was highly successful with a reduction in malaria incidence of
nearly 50 percent by 2002 (Table 1). The government invested heavily in this effort and the results
cannot be attributed to VIGISUS I. However, the project did contribute to the positive outcome by
providing resources for training and computer technology (see Table 1 for overall impact of public
health surveillance strengthening). While there was an increase in the number of malaria cases in
2003, nevertheless, the number of hospitalization for malaria fell from 11,500 in 2002 to 10,798 in
2003, and the number of deaths fell from 92 to 88 suggesting that cases were detected earlier and were
not as severe.

    Table 1: Impact of Public Health Surveillance Strengthening*: 2000-2002
                Goal                         Target               2000      2001      2002       2003
    Eradicate measles             Maintain zero cases**            35         0          0        0
                                  Vaccinate 95% of children     (86.8%)             (97.0%)    (100%)
                                  12-23 mos.
    Maintain polio eradication    Maintain zero cases**            0          0          0        0
    Maintain urban yellow         Maintain zero urban cases
    fever eradication             (excluding imported cases)       0          0          0        0

    Eliminate Chagas              Certificate of interrupted
                                  trans-mission in the 13 high     6          8         10        10
                                  risk states
    Intensify rabies program      Reduce number of cases           26        20          6        14
    Reduce malaria incidence      Reduce cases in Amazon
                                  Region                        613,241    388,303  348,259    403,856

    Reduce cholera
    occurrence                    Maintain zero cases**            753        7          0        0

    Implement water quality       Implement VIGIAGUA in
    surveillance                  27 states                        5         12         18        27


    * These are impact indicators used by the MOH.
    ** Excludes imported cases.

The leishmaniasis program also showed an initial increase in the number of cases identified and treated
after training activities. (Visceral leishmaniasis is fatal without treatment). Hepatitis B vaccination
made good progress and by 2003 coverage for infants in the nine Amazon states had increased. All but
one state had coverage levels of 85% or better. However, the goal of 95% coverage (three doses) was
not achieved. The TB control program was the least successful, mainly due to the fact that it was
moved to the MOH Primary Care Department shortly before project implementation leaving CENEPI
with little ability to have an impact on its activities.

Indigenous Health. (Highly Satisfactory). This subcomponent was one of the most successful
activities of the project and contributed to defining the institutional framework for the management and
oversight of an expanded service delivery system and public health surveillance in indigenous areas.
Supported by VIGISUS I investments, many communities currently benefit from regular access to
basic care and a functional surveillance system that collects and analyzes information on the health
situation of the indigenous population. This subcomponent achieved its targets quickly and expanded



                                                     - 9 -

well beyond what was originally planned. As shown in Table 2, nearly all performance benchmarks
were exceeded.

During the project, the indigenous health care system was developed, organized, and implemented with
remarkable success, thereby creating a sustainable foundation for continued improvements to
indigenous health. The project was critical to this success story. It financed virtually all the training
for indigenous health; construction of health posts and health centers for indigenous health; established
cooperation with TBAs and traditional healers; set up Center for monitoring the mental health of
indigenous populations and in collaboration wit traditional healers to address the major health issues of
alcoholism and suicide; and established an indigenous health information system registering nearly all
of the population (398,000) including data on demographics, births, mortality, observed morbidity,
sanitary practices, garbage disposal, access to potable water, housing and immunization coverage. This
information is critical to health planning and results monitoring. There are suggestions that project
investments translated into improvements in indigenous health with declines in malaria, TB, and
immune-preventable diseases. However, the magnitude of improvements in indigenous health status is
impossible to gauge because the information systems did not become operational until after 2000 and
pre-intervention data are non-existent.



                                                  Table 2
               VIGISUS 1: Comparison of Targets and Achievements for Indigenous Health
Activity/Indicator                                         Target                    Achievement*
Percent of indigenous population with access to              80                             90
basic care
Hiring/Training of professional personnel for    200 teams providing services 300 teams providing services
indigenous health teams
Creation of District Health Councils; training of            34                             34
Council members
Health surveillance system                         Notification of 50% of        Notification of 100% of
                                                     mandatory diseases            mandatory diseases
Installation of health information systems on         No target specified      100 percent of communities
indigenous communities                                                                  registered
Health posts constructed, equipped and staffed.              27                             69
Hiring and training of Indigenous Health                     700                          2,730
Agents
Indigenous health professionals trained in                   100                           207
epidemiological surveillance
*based on project records.

Component 3: Project Administration. Satisfactory

Project administration was carried out by the PCU, which provided support to sub-national levels for
the implementation of project activities, and was crucial in achieving the project targets. The PCU was
mainly staffed by consultants with experience in managing government programs or external-funded
projects. From the outset, it became clear that the original design of the PCU needed adjustments to
improve FUNASA's response to the heavy demand for analyzing and processing of subproject
proposals and convenios submitted by sub-national levels, and to improve internal coordination and the
flow of communication between the FUNASA technical staff and the PCU staff. Over 1,700 proposals
and 284 convenios were received and analyzed by the FUNASA/PCU team during the project period.



                                                 - 10 -

    Given this demand and the need for additional support to the sub-national entities, a team of
    experienced consultants (monitores) was hired to provide support to the states and to oversee project
    implementation (not planned in original design). The monitores were essential in providing training,
    technical assistance to the Unidades Apoio Técnico (State Implementation Units, UATs), and in taking
    remedial actions or solving bottlenecks when they occurred. The monitores worked in close
    coordination with the technical units within FUNASA, and played a significant role in accelerating the
    analysis and processing of subprojects and convenios. The performance of the PCU was further
    enhanced by the agreements signed between FUNASA/MOH and UNDP and UNESCO, which assisted
    in the administrative and procurement processes to facilitate the hiring of consultants and contracting
    of services for training and fellowships, studies and operative research. Although these agreements
    increased overhead expenses, they worked well.

    The PCU was instrumental in the development of a Planning and Information System (SPIV), designed
    to monitor project performance, progress on achievement of physical and financial targets, and feed the
    results into the reporting system at the various levels. Although the SPIV has been implemented in the
    FUNASA and in all State Secretariats of Health and their Regional Health Coordination Units, the
    extent of its use by the states and municipalities varies considerably. A positive aspect of the SPIV is
    that where it has been implemented properly, it is considered by the state health authorities as an
    important management tool.

    The PCU's performance was affected by high turnover of qualified staff and the constant need to
    recruit and train new staff, because of the on-going competition with similar PCUs in other
    externally-funded-projects, which offered better salaries. To prevent the continuous dismembering of
    the PCU and Units within FUNASA, the salary issue was discussed several times with
    FUNASA/MOH authorities during Bank supervision missions. This problem was attenuated after the
    mid-term review with the hiring of the monitores, and FUNASA's effort to marginally improve the
    salary scale of the PCU staff.

    The UATs were created to provide assistance to municipalities. These units were generally integrated
    within the State Secretariats of Health ­ Planning Units, to facilitate greater involvement of technical
    staff responsible for supervising and providing assistance to municipalities, and to improve the
    coordination with the UAT staff responsible for project management activities. Low technical and
    managerial capacity in some of the states or municipalities was an issue, ranging from limited
    experience in analyzing local health problems to knowledge of Bank procurement and contractual
    procedures.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    Substantial. The institutional development impact of the project was substantial in both the areas of
    public health surveillance and indigenous health.

    In 2003, the newly-elected government restructured the MOH and created a new Secretaría de
    Vigilancia de Saúde (Secretariat for Health Surveillance, SVS) responsible for disease surveillance


                                                     - 11 -

and control, in part due to CENEPI's achievements in improving disease control (with support from
VIGISUS I) and in part due to the growing awareness of the importance of surveillance for disease
control of emerging and reemerging diseases in Brazil (yellow fever, malaria, and dengue). This
dramatically increased the visibility and importance of surveillance and disease control and the MOH
strategies to improve health outcomes. VIGISUS I contributed to the MOH's understanding of the
importance of surveillance as a source of health intelligence and to its current strategic placement
closer to health policy-making and planning. Thus VIGISUS I contributed to a significant improvement
in the utilization of public health surveillance information to influence programs directed towards
promoting the health of the entire population as well as clinical services aimed at improving
individuals' health.

The improved national surveillance system highlighted the difficulties in controlling diseases such as
TB with the fragmented system that previously existed. The new structure strategically places all
communicable disease control programs within SVS, thus eliminating the fragmentation that occurred
when they were located in disparate departments within the MOH and FUNASA. This new structure
permits a more integrated approach to disease prevention and control and also brings surveillance
systems, with the information they provide about disease occurrence, together with the programs that
require this information for effective prevention and control. This forges a much stronger link between
disease recognition and response.

In addition, activities promoted under VIGISUS I contributed to an understanding of the gaps in
available information with respect to emerging health problems such as, non-communicable diseases
(NCDs), and injuries, and the need to focus on policies that have a long-term impact on the prevention
of risk factors such as, smoking, obesity, inactivity, poor diet, alcohol use etc. In response, the SVS
and VIGISUS II will increase resources dedicated to the prevention and control of NCDs, injuries, and
risk factors. VIGISUS I also contributed to strengthening health statistics related to maternal and child
health and SVS will be responsible for vital statistics and monitoring infant and maternal mortality, an
unfinished agenda in Brazil. Based on pilot work carried out under VIGISUS I, SVS will disseminate
and contribute to the scaling-up of maternal and infant mortality surveillance via community-based
audits that have been developed in some regions of the country. Thus, SVS will play a key role in
monitoring and achieving the health Millennium Development Goals regarding communicable diseases
including, malaria, HIV/AIDS, TB and others, and maternal and infant health. Also, the Situation
Analysis Department within SVS recently published findings on geographic inequities in health
outcomes and these efforts will continue to receive financing under VIGISUS II.

VIGISUS I contributed substantially to strengthening institutional capacity for multi-sectoral activities,
particularly those related to environmental health protection, e.g. water, air and soil
quality/contamination. Activities in this area are being carried out in coordination with the Ministry for
the Environment, Agriculture, Mining and others.

VIGISUS I also clearly had a substantial impact on institutional organization, implementation,
capacity, monitoring and outcomes related to indigenous health. An indigenous health system was
virtually nonexistent prior to 1999 and the investments made through VIGISUS I were vital to
establishing an organizational structure, infrastructure (including information and communications),
and providing other needed resources. Organizational, managerial and technical capacity building was
carried out at all levels ­ national, district, and community. VIGISUS I created a solid foundation on
which to build further improvements in indigenous health and address more complex,
culturally-sensitive health problems such as nutrition, alcoholism, and suicide.



                                                    - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    Exchange rate and fluctuation. Project implementation was affected by the substantial fluctuation of
    the Brazilian currency. Between project appraisal in March 1998 and closing in June 2004, the Real to
    US Dollar exchange rate increased from R$ 0.91 to R$3.11, reaching a peak of R$ 4.03 in October
    2002. This fluctuation required substantial flexibility from the project's financial team, which had to
    adjust to a strengthening dollar by re-programming project investments and spending more to ensure
    adequate disbursements, and then adjusting as the dollar weakened. The depreciation of the local
    currency resulted in a shortage of counterpart financing, leading to a government request for
    cancellation of $25 million (25 percent) of the loan in January 2003 and another $8million (8 percent)
    in December 2003, as well as contributing the an undisbursed amount of $8.8 million at the end of the
    project.

    Disease outbreaks. There was a yellow fever outbreak at the start of the project and control of this
    outbreak became a major priority for the Minister of Health. This incident increased the emphasis on
    the need for achieving project objectives. Likewise due to the spread of hemorrhagic dengue in Latin
    America, several major urban outbreaks occurred in Brazil during the project implementation with
    negative economic and human impact. This outbreak also increased pressure on government to ensure
    that the country's surveillance system, including disease prevention and control, functioned more
    effectively. Finally, the SARS epidemic in Asia, while outside the country, sent tremors throughout the
    world including Brazil and also likely contributed to the investment in public health surveillance for
    disease prevention and control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Federal government commitment to public health surveillance. The federal government was highly
    committed to improved public health surveillance for a variety of reasons including the reasons detailed
    in Section 5.1, and also because the government initiated several visible campaigns to control diseases,
    such as malaria, that required the support of effective surveillance activities. This commitment
    continued and was reinforced after the elections by President Lula's administration with the creation of
    the new Secretariat for Public Health Surveillance (SVS). The government consistently hired
    highly-competent technical staff for the project and for the departments in the Ministry where the
    project activities were executed.

    Counterpart funds. The lack of availability of counterparts funds both at national and sub-national
    levels affected project implementation. The significant depreciation of the local currency resulted in the
    government needing substantially higher levels of counterpart funding than originally estimated during
    appraisal. The government was unable to adjust the project to respond to these fluctuations. In
    addition, Brazil's monetary policy ­ negotiated and agreed with the IMF ­ established tight budget
    controls that limited the amount of resources allocated to government expenditures, including transfers
    to the MOH, and , therefore to FUNASA and the project. Furthermore, legislation establishing limits in
    expenditures for externally-funded projects was passed.

    Institutional capacity. FUNASA's organization and manpower structure was not prepared to handle
   the heavy volume of convenios to be signed with the states and municipalities and the time and
   resources needed to process them. This led to the decision to decentralize the process and sign the
   convenios for transfer of resources only with the states and they in turn would transfer the resources to
   the municipalities. Thus, subproject implementation relied on state and municipal governments and
   some states had insufficient technical and operational capacity to provide support to municipalities or



                                                     - 13 -

   to implement project activities at the local level. Although the central level initiated training for
   sub-national level staff, this was not sufficient to overcome weaknesses in human resources and
   institutional capacities.

   Financing mechanism. VIGISUS I was negotiated and signed in 1998. However, in 1999 the
   decentralization process in Brazil moved into full implementation and the transfer of resources from the
   federal government to the states (called fondo a fondo) began. In the meantime, the Project Loan
   Agreement approved the year before required the establishment of separate convenios or agreements for
   the transfer of subproject funds to the states. The use of convenios as financial instruments to transfer
   resources from the federal government to state and municipal governments was extremely cumbersome
   and inflexible, in part due to the lengthy time required develop and sign the convenio at both the state
   and federal levels, Bank procurement rules that were different from Brazilian rules and not understood
   by the states or municipalities, and weak management capacity at the state and municipal level
   resulting in the slow execution of resources. For example, often by the time a convenio was approved,
   the state had decided to purchase the agreed items using resources from fondo a fondo, and the
    convenio would have to be renegotiated or the procurement process was considered too onerous and the
    state or municipality used fondo a fondo for the purchase. The use of convenios was described by some
   states as 'difficult to operationalize' particularly when many municipalities were going to benefit and
   this mechanism contributed to reduced execution of funds and lack of effectiveness of the project at the
   state and municipal levels.

   High turnover of staff in the PCU and Amazon Region. There was a very high turnover of
    management staff in the PCU due to the better salaries offered by other externally-funded PCUs. The
    high turnover was particularly severe in the Amazon Region where the municipalities had difficulty
    retaining health professionals partly because of difficult living conditions in these areas, and/or because
    these professionals were often not from the area and sought better employment opportunities in their
    place of origin or in more desirable larger urban centers. The project did not have an incentive scheme
    in place to retain project-trained health professionals in the Amazon Region.

    Change in administrations. In addition to the high turnover as mentioned above, during the project
    period, there were elections at the federal and sub-national levels leading to changes in the health
    minister, the head of FUNASA, and state and municipal health secretaries. While none of these
    transitions affected the basic project design, they often resulted in changes in key staff working on the
    project, with the concomitant need to train new staff, often leading to a deceleration in project
    execution or changes in project implementation strategy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Highly competent technical and operational staff. The MOH and FUNASA consistently hired
   highly technical and operational staff whose competence and professionalism contributed to the success
   of the project.

   Leadership and dedication in the implementation of indigenous health activities. FUNASA had
   highly competent, very dedicated staff members coordinating and implementing its indigenous health
   activities. This was a major contributor to the success of this small, but important component of the
   project.

   Organizational changes affecting the TB program. Shortly after the project was launched, the TB
   and leprosy control activities were unexpectedly moved from FUNASA / CENEPI (the principal



                                                       - 14 -

    agency implementing the project) to the Ministry of Health / Department of Primary Care. This change
    contributed to difficulties in the implementation of the TB control activities and to the achievement of
    the trigger calling for a reduction of 10 percent in the number of TB cases in the Amazon Region.

    Fragmented state and municipal investments. The subproject investments were fragmented and
    were not placed in the context of a coherent plan to develop public health surveillance and disease
    control at the state and municipal levels. The financing tended to be used in an unsystematic way to
    finance large purchases (e.g. vehicles, computers) and training.

    Lack of coordination between operational and technical staff. The fragmented structure of the
    project with poor communication between technical staff working in CENEPI, and operational staff,
    working under the Director of FUNASA was dysfunctional and contributed to the slowness in
    execution of the more complicated aspects of the project.

    Poor sub-project monitoring and evaluation. In the original project design, FUNASA was to
    organize a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to measure sub-project performance and impact. This was
    partially implemented. A planning and monitoring unit was installed within the PCU to monitor the
    implementation of physical and financial targets established in the convenios and in the PAD. However,
    the lack of sufficient and reliable information to monitor sub-project performance limited the
    government's ability to intervene or take effective or corrective actions in a timely manner (e.g. when
    execution lagged). Furthermore, expenditures by states and municipalities were tracked only in very
    broad terms and at closing, the project was unable to determine exactly what had actually been
    financed by sub-projects (e.g. how many people trained, what type of training, what was purchased).

    Implementation capacity in indigenous areas. The project experienced some difficulties at start-up
    with the indigenous health subcomponent, mainly due to weak institutional and managerial capacity
    and limited budgetary resources for hiring experienced staff to work in these areas with the
    socio-cultural realities of diverse ethnicities. In addition, some of the municipalities encountered
    difficulties in providing assistance to the areas because of litigation regarding tenure issues, which
    limited the access of health personnel into the areas.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    The total cost of the project was US$121.5 million, with US$58.2 million financed by IBRD and
    US$65.3 in government counterpart financing, including contributions from the states and
    municipalities (see Table 3). As mentioned above, during project implementation US$33million was
    cancelled an d at project's end $8.8 million was undisbursed. No reallocations across components and
    expenditures categories were carried out during project implementation. While only 58% of the original
    IBRD loan was executed this must be interpreted in the context of a greater than three-fold devaluation
    of the Brazilian real.

                                           Table 3: Total Project Cost
                        Source                     Appraisal Estimated       Actual Total    Percentage
                                                         Total Cost             Cost             of
                                                        (US$million)        (US$ million)     Appraisal
        IBRD                                               100.0                58.2             58
       Government of Brazil (including state               100.0                65.3             65
       and municipal contributions)
        TOTAL                                              200.0                123.5            62




                                                       - 15 -

    Disbursements. A significant disbursement lag occurred in the project's first two years. It was mainly
    due to a shortage of counterpart funds, slow processing of SOEs, and changes in the Bank's
    disbursement methods. The transition of the disbursement process from SOEs to LACI delayed the
    flow of resources from the Bank to the Brazilian Treasury. This situation was improved after the MTR
    when the Bank agreed to revert from LACI back to SOEs, and assisted the government in the
    development of a financial management plan based on the Annual Operation Plan (POA), and
    strengthening the implementation capacity of implementing entities to speed up disbursement.

    Procurement. The original project procurement arrangements assumed that most of the procurement
    would be carried out centrally by the MOH/FUNASA, which was supposed to consolidate similar
    items into larger packages to be procured through ICB or NBC. Yet, this approach was inconsistent
    with the highly decentralized nature of the project and procurement processes were mostly
    decentralized to the states. In December 2002 the Loan Agreement was amended to correct this
    situation. Procurement training and technical assistance to participating agencies at the sub-national
    levels was provided throughout project implementation. However, capacity at the state level continued
    to be weak, and there were frequent problems either caused by failures to use agreed Bank procedures
    or because these procedures were in conflict with government procurement laws, thus resulting in
    lengthy bureaucratic reviews and delays in implementation. An ex-post procurement review carried out
    by the Bank after the MTR in selected states noted that: (a) procurement was carried out by the UATs
    or by the state procurement agency, which in some instances, had insufficient experience with Bank
    procurement procedures; (b) procurement records often required improvement; (c) procurement units
    were insufficiently staffed; (c) there were problems related to with "shopping" or with contracting
    consultant services procedures; (d) there was a lack of procurement planning; and (e) FUNASA
    provided insufficient supervision of states with limited procurement capacity. The review also found
    that procurement was of better quality in those states where UATs as opposed to state procurement
    agencies were directly responsible for conducting procurement activities.

    Audit. The project's audits were carried out on a yearly basis through 2002 and for those years there
    were no serious deficiencies noted. The 2003 audit was initiated late and has still not been received.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The new administration of President Lula is increasing the government's commitment to public health
    surveillance as a key to improved disease prevention and control and in 2003 created a new Secretariat
    for Public Health Surveillance (SVS) within the MOH. This act practically ensures its political,
    financial and institutional sustainability. VIGISUS I contributed to the work and achievements of
    CENEPI that led to the improved policy environment and the strengthened structure that in turn led to
    the creation of SVS.

    This new structure is placed in the context of a constitutional amendment (No. 29) that has contributed
    to stability of health financing resulting in an estimated 26 percent increase in financing between 2001
    and 2004. The creation of a separate Secretariat within the MOH for public health surveillance further
    assures financing for this core public health function. The creation of SVS also strengths the essential
    link of surveillance to disease prevention and control activities. Most of these activities, previously
    fragmented and in various MOH secretariats and agencies, are now integrated within SVS. They
    include all communicable disease control programs such as EPI, TB, leprosy, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS and
    STIs, malaria and other vector-borne diseases, rabies and other zoonotic diseases. This integration is
    likely to increase efficiency and effectiveness of surveillance and further contributes to institutional



                                                      - 16 -

    strengthening especially if it is translated to similar integration at the state and municipal levels. The
    new government's commitment to continued improvement in public health surveillance at the state and
    municipal levels is strong and this will be a priority for the second phase of the project. This is
    complemented by the commitment to surveillance of state and municipal governments.

    The recent (2000) approval of an indigenous health policy and legal framework also demonstrate
    long-term government commitment to address the health needs of indigenous communities. This has
    been accompanied by a budgetary commitment with an increase in the budget of 24% between 2000
    and 2003. The involvement and endorsement of indigenous organizations and NGOs active in
    indigenous communities further enhances the likelihood that the indigenous health system developed so
    far will be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    This project financed the first of a three-phase program and therefore, there is not a transition to
    regular operations, but rather the beginning of Phase II of the program. VIGISUS II, approved in May
    2004, will consolidate and build on the gains achieved during the first phase, while addressing a set of
    emerging issues related to public health surveillance and indigenous health.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    Satisfactory. Identification and preparation of the project were satisfactory. As noted above, the
    project reflected country and Bank priorities, and investments made through this loan led to a
    substantial and sustainable improvement in public health surveillance infrastructure and capacity that
    is reflected in improved disease control and prevention activities, and early evidence of reduction in
    prevalence of some diseases. The project design was appropriate for the objectives, yet somewhat
    complicated. Difficulties with implementation of sub-national subprojects were not easily predictable
    given the country's recent move to decentralize and institutionalize surveillance functions at the
    sub-national levels. The trigger indicators were ambitious and required two loan extensions, but were
    ultimately met and will contribute to improved surveillance activities. The Bank's decision to use the
    APL financing approach made financing more flexible and ensured government's long-term
    commitment to the establishment and consolidation of a public health surveillance and disease control
    system. This was demonstrated by the government's request for the second phase of VIGISUS and the
    priority assigned by the government in its national health plan to consolidate surveillance and disease
    control functions at the national and sub-national levels.

7.2 Supervision:
    Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision efforts during implementation were timely, with adequate
    reporting of project implementation progress and there is evidence of frequent follow-up between
    missions on technical and administrative matters. The task team worked closely with CENEPI and the
    supervision missions were composed of public health specialists from the Bank, PAHO and CDC, and
    supported by the Bank's in-country operations, procurement, disbursement and financial management
    specialists. CDC closely monitored and supervised the Applied Epidemiology and Data for
    Decision-making Training Programs.

    The task team worked closely with CENEPI and the PCU, providing valuable inputs into project
    activities, harmonizing country activities with global health activities and fostering a partnership
    between the project team and the Bank. However, the Bank missed the opportunity to assist the
    government in designing a more comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system, which would have



                                                      - 17 -

    improved measurement of project impact at the state and municipal level. It also could have provided
    greater assistance to ensure the more timely achievement of the BSL 3 laboratory trigger indicator.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance is satisfactory since the project had well-defined
    objectives and activities, the team provided able and consistent support, and the overall program was
    and continues to be aligned with government priorities. All of these factors contributed to the
    successful completion of Phase I of this program.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Highly Satisfactory. The government demonstrated a strong commitment to the project throughout
    preparation. The VIGISUS Project was included as a government priority in the President's 1998
    Message to Congress, and the federal government, working closely with the Bank team, took the lead in
    project identification, preparation and appraisal. Throughout the preparation process, intensive
    consultations on project content and design were conducted at sub-national levels with the main
    stakeholders, including state health departments, universities, and research institutions. Consultation
    workshops were held with stakeholders, including NGOs and leaders from indigenous communities.
    Counterpart funds were included in the 1998 MOH budget. The financial management capacity of
    FUNASA was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Equally, the Bank reviewed the
    appropriateness of the national surveillance system and the protocols used to prevent and control the
    principal communicable diseases, and found them satisfactory. At appraisal, an experienced and
    well-recognized manager was appointed as PCU Director, and the PCU was organized and fully
    functioning prior to project approval.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Satisfactory. Despite changes in central and state governments and the restructuring of the executing
    entity, the initial delays and difficulties with the convenios and the transfer of funds to states, the
    government maintained a strong political and financial commitment to the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Satisfactory. Despite high staff turnover, FUNASA/CENEPI/DESAI consistently hired
    highly-competent technical and operational staff. Project management and implementation teams
    demonstrated a high level of commitment and capacity in providing support to the sub-national level
    during project implementation. Due to the work of the implementation team and participating agencies,
    most of the trigger indicators were fully met and many of the indicators surpassed the initial targets.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Satisfactory. The overall Borrower performance is satisfactory. The success of this project, the first
    Bank-financed project dedicated to public health surveillance, is largely a reflection of the Borrower's
    commitment and vision. The development of Brazil's public health surveillance system serves as a
    model for other countries.

8. Lessons Learned

    This was the first World Bank-financed project entirely dedicated to the development of a public health
    surveillance and disease control system. The project was successful and the Bank has accumulated
    considerable experience and knowledge which can be applied to other projects in this important field. In
    fact, the public health surveillance system project in Argentina (Loan 4516-AR, approved November
    2000) is benefiting from Brazil's experience.



                                                       - 18 -

Choice of Loan Instrument. This was the first APL in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The
choice of loan instrument allowed flexibility with a long-term institutional development project in the
context of an evolving decentralization process. The flexibility and longer time-frame increased
government and Bank commitment and the likelihood of a successful and sustainable outcome. The
instrument permitted an initial focus on strengthening the system at the national level with significant
learning, both technical and operational, in this new area of investment. This was important before
embarking on the more complicated second phase which will focus on sub-national and local levels.

Choice of Trigger Indicators. Trigger indicators to move from one phase to another should be
carefully selected and evaluated, considering institutional capacity and technical needs. In this project,
while the selection of ambitious trigger indicators is laudable, it required two extensions to fully
achieve the indicators and delayed passage to the second phase. In future projects, either greater
technical assistance should be included to accelerate achievement of ambitious triggers or other triggers
should be chosen.

Financing Mechanisms in a Decentralized Context. Health sector projects in the context of
decentralization require a better integration of Bank financing mechanisms with country financing
mechanisms. In the case of public health surveillance and disease control, the strengthening of
sub-national (state) and local (municipal) public health structures is fundamental to a successful
system. The use of convenios and subprojects governed by Bank rules was very dysfunctional. In the
case of Brazil, it required that 26 states and the federal district, and multiple participating
municipalities, sign agreements with the national level. In some cases this formality took up to a year.
Furthermore, once the convenios were signed, the participating states and municipalities were required
to learn an entirely new set of procurement and other rules. This contributed to an extremely slow start
in disbursing to the subprojects, an important component of the project. This was compounded by a
lack of flexibility in Bank and government rules requiring that the convenios be amended in order to
finance new activities, which happened in many cases when states, out of frustration, used their own
resources to finance activities proposed in the initial agreements. In the context of decentralization,
more agile funding streams, linked to existing country mechanisms, are required.

Project Execution in a Decentralized Context. The VIGISUS I subprojects involved decentralized
execution and the amount of support required for states and municipalities to carry out procurement
and other processes was underestimated. This caused initial delays in subproject execution. However,
project staff recognized this problem and increased support to states by hiring operational and technical
staff assigned to specific states who worked as a team to assist and supervise decentralized staff in
implementing and executing project activities. This creative approach improved project execution in
states and municipalities. The other lesson learned in this context was the importance of a coherent
public health surveillance development plan at the state level to prioritize investments and avoid
fragmented purchasing.

Financing Mechanisms for Public Sector Strengthening. Public health surveillance is a public good
and an element of the Ministry of Health's stewardship function. Thus it is squarely in the
government's domain. Strengthening public health surveillance requires strengthening of public
institutions. The project did not take this into account sufficiently and several activities related to
development of networks and operational research were never executed. When investing in public
health surveillance (or other public health functions), it is important to ensure that there is adequate




                                                 - 19 -

    flexibility in the legal agreement to permit subsidies to a variety of public institutions, as well as factor
    in government mechanisms for funding such institutions.

    Partnerships with External Agencies. Public health surveillance and disease control involves
    sophisticated technical issues. The Bank successfully partnered with PAHO and CDC during this
    project. Technical experts from these two institutions participated in project preparation and
    supervisory missions, and contributed to the project's success.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR is included in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
          Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR1        Actual/Latest Estimate
Trigger Indicators:                    Baseline: 0                  Surpassed: 138 candidates
At least 50 candidates trained under MTR: 57 candidates trained     trained.
the Basic Principles of Outbreak
Investigation course
At least 200 superior-level and 100    Baseline: 0                  Surpassed: 1,576 superior- and
mid-level staff trained in laboratory  MTR: Superior-level - 781,   1,632 mid-level staff trained.
biosafety                              Mid-level - 567
Data and coding standards for the      Baseline: 0                  Fully complied and applied in all
National Surveillance System defined MTR: Implemented               27 states.
9 national reference laboratories      Baseline: 0                  Partially achieved: 7 completed
rehabilitated and equipped to BSL 3.                                and 2 with design phase
                                       MTR: in process              completed.
Laboratory module associated with      Baseline: 0                  Surpassed: Laboratory module
new notifiable diseases reporting      MTR: Implemented             implemented for two diseases
system (SINAN) operational for one                                  (AFP and yellow fever) in 24
disease in at least 20 national or                                  state laboratories.
macroregional public health
             5/
laboratories. (see annex 10)
The number of cases of tuberculosis    Baseline (1997): 74,1%       Not achieved:
cured in the Amazon Region would       MTR: N/A                     73.0%
have increased by at least 10%
300 indigenous community health        Baseline: 0                  Surpassed: 2,730 trained.
agents trained



Output Indicators
Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR        Actual/Latest Estimate
Process Indicators
Strengthened policy and strategic                                   Achieved:
planning
                                                                    Field Epidemiology Training
1. All states have had key personnel                                (phase 1: 11; phase 2: 10); Data
trained as follows: i) Field                                        for Decision Making (23); Public
Epidemiology Training (10); ii) Data                                Health Fellowships (27);
for Decision Making (25); iii) Public                               Management training (phase 1:
                          6/
Health Fellowships (22); (see annex                                 20; phase 2: 20; special course on

10); iv) Management training (60)                                   Environmental Vigilance for 20
                                                                    MOH managers)
States and municipalities receive
financial resources and support                                     Achieved:
services to sustain and improve
national surveillance system                                        All 26 states and 87 percent of
                                                                    municipalities were certified to
2. Proper mechanism in place to                                     receive direct transfers of funds
transfer funds for disease surveillance                             for epidemiology and control of
under the SUS                                                       diseases.



                                                      - 21 -

3. All states and one third of                                       1,764 computers were acquired
municipalities have equipment to use                                 for states and municipalities; also
National Surveillance System                                         computers and printers acquired
                      7
information systems. (see annex 10)                                  for 586 municipalities and 36
                                                                     health regions.
Public health laboratories network
under rehabilitation, construction,                                  Surpassed:
and being provided with adequate
equipment.                                                           12 border laboratories were
                                                                     constructed and equipped.
4. Nine border laboratories
constructed and equipped.
A coordination mechanism is                                          Achieved:
operating that ensures the                                           The following committees were
participation of private doctors                                     officially formed with private
                                                                     and public sector representation:
5. A liaison council with                                            Technical Committee on
representatives of the public and                                    Immunizations; Permanent
private sectors operates in at least ten                             Commission on Environmental
states.                                                              Health; Technical Committee on
                                                                     Prevention and Control of
                                                                     Malaria; Technical Committee
                                                                     on Control of Dengue; and
                                                                     National Coordinating and
                                                                     Implementing Committee to
                                                                     Mobilize against Dengue.
Disease control strengthened in
the Amazon region (in the 321
municipalities included in the
project)
                                                                     Surpassed:
6. 60 high-level staff trained in                                    25 professionals trained in
communicable disease control                                         Health Vigilance; 238
                                                                     municipal managers trained in
                                                                     control of epidemics.


7. 300 health professionals trained                                  Surpassed:
to act as local trainers for control of                              503 professionals trained
leishmaniasis (LTA and LV)

8. At least 50 percent of budget        Baseline: 1999 insecticide   Surpassed:
spent on non-insecticide vector         (12%); other actions (88%)   Insecticide (5%); other actions
control methods (early diagnosis and                                 (95%)
treatment)
                                                                     Surpassed:
9. 400 community health agents                                       2000: 102 professionals trained
trained in disease control.                                          2001: 6,649 community agents
                                                                     trained
                                                                     2002: 8,396 community agents
                                                                     trained
                                                                     2003: 1,331 community health



                                                        - 22 -

                                                                   agents trained

10. Vaccination coverage for         Baseline                      Partially achieved:
hepatitis B for population aged 0-15         1999 -- 12-23 mos.              2003 ­ 12-23 mos.
years old increased to at least 90
percent (states in Amazon Region)               AC (100%)                       AC (95,4)


                                               AM (64,2%)                      AM (70,8%)


                                               AP (83,6%)                      AP (89,7%)


                                               MA (35,4%)                      MA (85,0%)


                                               MT (75,3%)                      MT (89,8%)


                                               PA (63,6%)                      PA (86,4%)


                                               RO (94,9%)                      RO (86,8%)


                                               RR (95,5%)                      RR (88,5%)


                                               TO (97,0%)                      TO (96,7%)




1/ End of project




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                      (As of October 20, 2004)8/

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                        Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                   Components                             US$        US$ million
                                                         million
Strengthening of National Surveillance System            141.0         71.8            51
Strengthening of Disease Control in Selected Areas        44.0         44.2           100
Project Administration                                    15.0          7.5            50

  Total Project Costs (including physical and price      200.00        123.5           62
                                      contingencies)
           Total Financing Required                   100.00         58.2            58


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
                                             Procurement Method1
  Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB           Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           10.00           5.00        0.00       15.00
                                (0.00)          (5.00)         (2.50)      (0.00)      (7.50)
2. Goods: Equipment             12.30           48.40           1.00        0.00       61.70
                                (6.20)         (24.10)         (0.50)      (0.00)     (30.80)
3. Drugs and Pharm.              4.60            0.00           0.00        0.00       4.60
Products
                                (2.30)          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)      (2.30)
4. Training                      0.00            0.00          71.20        0.00       71.20
                                (0.00)          (0.00)        (35.60)      (0.00)     (35.60)
5. Consultants                   0.00            0.00          47.30        0.00       47.30
                                (0.00)          (0.00)        (23.70)      (0.00)     (23.70)
6. Other                         0.00            0.00           0.20        0.00       0.20
                                (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.10)      (0.00)      (0.10)
   Total                        16.90           58.40          124.70       0.00      200.00
                                (8.50)         (29.10)        (62.40)      (0.00)    (100.00)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD loan.

ICB=International Competitive Bidding
NBF=Not Bank financed
NCB=National Competitive Bidding
Other=Includes consultants and technical assistance




                                                   - 24 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual Estimate ­ September 2004)
    (US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Procurement Method         1


    Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB             Other  2        N.B.F.        Total Cost

1. Works                                   0.00               0.00             6.50             0.00             6.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (3.25)           (0.00)           (3.25)
2. Goods                                   0.00               2.00             4.22             0.00             6.22
                                          (0.00)             (1.00)           (2.11)           (0.00)           (3.11)
3. Drugs and Pharm.                        0.00               0.00             00.00            0.00            00.00
Products
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (00.00)          (0.00)          (00.00)
4. Training                                0.00               0.00             22.22            0.00            22.22
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (12.60)          (0.00)          (12.60)
5. Consultants                             0.00               0.00             16.76            0.00            16.76
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (6.34)           (0.00)           (6.34)
                             3
6. Other (Subprojects)                     0.00               0.00             71.80            0.00            71.80

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (32.90)          (0.00)          (32.90)
Total                                      0.00               2.00            121.50            0.00           123.50
                                          (0.00)             (1.00)           (57.20)          (0.00)          (58.20)


1.         Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2.         Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units
3.         According to Loan Agreement "Subproject" means any investment referred to in Parts A.1(b), A.2(a), A.3, A.4,
B.1(b) and B.2 of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant and which meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.

           Subprojects include the following activities:
i.         Acquisition of micro-computers, printers, telephone access, and vehicles to States, Municipalities and non-profit
public entities;
ii.        Provision of technical assistance to assist States and Municipalities in implementing the improved and standardized
disease surveillance programs, through, inter alia, the acquisition of hardware and software and carrying out of training;
iii.       Upgrading of twelve existing National Reference Laboratories to convert them from the BSL-2 to the BSL-3 category;

iv.        The construction of twelve Border Laboratories,
v.         Carrying out of rehabilitation, expansion, and equipment of about sixty cold storage facilities to strengthen the
distribution and storage of vaccines and other perishable medical products;
vi.        Carrying out of rehabilitation and equipment of regional entomology centers, and water, air, and soil quality
laboratories
vii.       Rehabilitation, expansion, and provision of equipment to public health laboratories and other health facilities in the
Legal Amazon;
viii.      Acquisition of boats and vehicles;
ix.        Acquisition and administration of anti-malarial drugs and reagent kits for the diagnosis of hepatitis, leishmaniasis,
and malaria;
x.         Provision of technical assistance for subproject preparation under part B.1 (b) of the Project;
xi.        Rehabilitation and equipment of health centers, health posts, environmental health, and other health facilities adapted
to the indigenous culture;
xii.       Acquisition of equipment such as basic health equipment which includes scales and stethoscopes, boats, vehicles and
geographic positioning systems;
xiii.      Training of about on thousand indigenous health agents;
xiv.       Provision of technical assistance for subproject preparation under part B.2 of the Project and for organization and
training of local indigenous nuclei.




                                                                - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                Percentage of
     Component                 Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate    Appraisal
                            Bank       Govt.   CoF.*  Bank     Govt.     CoF. Bank Govt. CoF.
Strengthening of the         67.0       58.4   15.6    32.9     28.8     10.1  49    49     65
Disease Surveillance
System
Strengthening of             29.5       14.5           22.1     22.1           75   152
Disease Control in
Selected Areas
Project                      3.5        11.5           3.2      4.3            91    37
Administration
(PCU)
Total Project Cost          100.0       84.4   15.6    58.2     55.2     10.1  58    65     65

*contributions from states and municipalities




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/3/1997                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             PROJ. MGT./INFO. SYS. SPEC
                                             (1), HEALTH SPEC (1)

              11/29/1997                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                                             HEALTH SPEC (1) CDC SPEC
                                             (1), PROJ. MGT./INFO. SYS.
                                             SPEC (1), AUDITOR (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC
                                             (PAHO) (1)

              09/01/1997                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1), CDC SPEC
                                             (1)
              02/01/1998                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             CDC SPEC (1)
              03/09/1998                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                                             HEALTH SPEC (1), PROJ.
                                             MGT./INFO. SYS. SPEC (1),
                                             OPAS SPEC (1), CDD
                                             SPECIALISTS (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/13/1998                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC
                                             (1), SOCIOLOGIST (1),
                                             CDC SPEC (1)


 Supervision

              03/16/1999                4    TASK TEAM                        S               S
                                             LEADER/HEALTH (1),
                                             HEALTH SPEC (2), PROJ.
                                             MGT./INFO. SYS. (1)

              08/30/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (2),
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              08/30/1999                4    HEALTH SPEC (1), CDC             S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1), ENG/PROJ.
                                             IMPL. SPEC (1),
                                             EPIDEMIOLOGIST CONS (1)



                                              - 28 -

      02/02/2000    4 HEALTH SPEC (1), CDC         S    S
                      CONSULTANT (1), ENG/PROJ.
                      IMP. SPEC (1),
                      EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1)

      08/29/2000    2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        U    S
                      INFO. SYSTEMS SPEC (1)

      03/25/2001    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        S    S
                      PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                      PAHO SURVEILLANCE SPEC
                      (1), EPIDMEIOLOGIST (1)

      10/09/2001    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        S    S
      (MTR)           PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                      PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                      (1), OPERATIONS SPEC (1),
                      CDC ENV. SPEC (1),
                      EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1),
                      INFECTIOUS DISEASE SPEC
                      (1)

      04/25/2002    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        S    S
                      PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                      FINANCIAL MGT SPEC (1),
                      OPERATIONS SPEC (1),
                      ECONOMIST (1),
                      EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1),
                      INFECTIOUS DISEASE SPEC
                      (1)
      11/14/2002    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1), SR.    S    S
                      PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1),
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                      EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1), PAHO
                      SURVEILLANCE SPEC (1)


ICR
      10/10/2003    3 TAST TEAM LEADER (1),        S    S
                      PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC
                      (1), OPERATIONS SPEC
                      (1)




                      - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                 No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                   54.3                         271,562.75*
  Supervision                                           146.7                         541,237.91**
  ICR
  Total                                                 202.0                           812,800.66
* This figure includes all aspects of lending (identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations)
** This figure includes all aspects of supervision (including ICR)




                                                               - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous People
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Ministry of Education/World Bank. Aide Memoires and Supervision Reports. Various documents:
  1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004.

  Ministry of Health, Fundação Nacional de Saúde, Guia de Vigilância Epidemiológica, August 2002

  Ministry of Health, Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde, Avaliação do VIGISUS I, June 2003

  Ministry of Health, Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde, Relatório Técnico, Componente II, October
  2003

  Ministry of Health, Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde, Relatório Síntese dos Estados, June 2004

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Identification Mission, November 3, 1997

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Preparation Mission, November 29, 1997

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Momoire, Preparation Mission, September 1, 1997

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Preparation Mission, February 1, 1998

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Preparation Mission, March 9, 1998

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Appraisal/Negotiation Mission, April 13, 1998

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, March 16, 1999

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, August 30. 1999

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, February 2, 1999

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, August 29, 2000

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, August 29, 2000

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, April 25, 2001

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, October 9, 2001

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, April 25, 2002

  World Bank/Ministry of Health, Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, November 14, 2002

  World Bank, Loan Agreement, Disease Surveillance and Control Project, December 17, 2002

  World Bank, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for
  a Disease Surveillance and Control Project, August 6, 1998.




                                                - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Sub-project disbursement and execution summary

                                          Figure 1
                                    Sub-project summary
                   Agreements, disbursements, and execution: 2001-2004**
                                       (Brazilian reals*)


      180000000
      160000000
      140000000
      120000000
      100000000
       80000000
       60000000
       40000000
       20000000
              0
                  Em            Em            Em            Em
              28/08/2001     31/12/2002   31/07/2003     30/04/2004


                           Conveniado     Liberado      Executado



*1 US$ = 2.4 ­ 4 reais depending on date

** Summary as of Jun 30, 2004:
      Agreements: R. 159,135,364
      Disbursed:      R. 135,500,765
      Executed:       R. 120,820,265




                                            - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution

  1. Evaluation of the development objective, performance, implementation and experience in the
  operation of the project

  1.1 Objective
  The development objective of the VIGISUS I project was "to improve and strengthen the national
  disease surveillance and control system, contributing to reducing mortality and morbidity resulting
  from communicable diseases" (PAD, page 10)

  The VIGISUS project was designed against a backdrop of decentralization of health actions, from the
  federal level to states and municipalities, as a result of the adoption and implementation of the
  constitutional guidelines for the Unified Health System (SUS). The project was formulated with the
  aim of structuring the disease surveillance system in the central level and in the states and
  municipalities to enable them to meet the demands imposed by the decentralization process.

  The actions to control diseases and the environmental risk factors for the health of the population were
  previously carried out on a large scale by the National Health Foundation (FUNASA) and its
  epidemiological arm, the National Epidemiology Center (CENEPI).              With the decentralization of
  disease prevention and control actions to the states and municipalities, CENEPI's role became one of
  standard-setting and technical excellence in disease surveillance; however, its team was small, and
  insufficiently trained and used uncoordinated working procedures.

  To achieve the project's objective four strategic areas were organized: Epidemiological Surveillance,
  Environmental Surveillance in Health, Disease Prevention and Control in Legal Amazonia and Health
  Care for Indigenous Populations, with the first three being the responsibility of the Secretariat of
  Health Surveillance MoH9/(see annex 10), while the last-mentioned was assigned to FUNASA.

  The deficiencies detected in each of the strategic areas that were remediable with VIGISUS resources
  were:

  ·   Epidemiological Surveillance: (a) restriction of the extent of communicable diseases; (b) working
  procedures that were more clinical than epidemiological in approach; (c) segmentation of the area,
  associated with a program concept; (d) failure to fully understand the importance of each stage of
  surveillance; (e) destructuring of the system of services; (f) absence of definitions regarding the powers
  of each sphere of government; and (g) unsuitability of the organizational structures and operating
  equipment and inadequacy of the available human resources.

  ·   Environmental Surveillance: (a) high incidence of health problems and hospitalizations due to
  causes connected with water supply and improper waste disposal, such as diarrhea in children under
  five years of age; and (b) absence of risk-factor monitoring for polluted soil.

  ·   Disease Control in Legal Amazonia (a region made up of seven Northern Region states ­ Acre,
  Amazonas, Amapá, Pará, Rondônia, Roraima and Tocantins, plus Maranhão and Mato Grosso). This
  region presented an epidemiological picture with an extensive list of prevalent problems. In view of
  their magnitude and importance seven diseases were selected for priority attention by the project
  (malaria, hepatitis B, tuberculosis, leprosy, American tegumentary leishmaniasis, visceral
  leishmaniasis, yellow fever and, as of 2002, with World Bank authorization, dengue fever as well).



                                                   - 35 -

·   Health Care for the Indigenous Populations: (a) unsatisfactory health conditions, with diseases
running the gamut from malaria to alcoholism; (b) environmental deterioration; (c) social disruption
and heightened vulnerability of those affected; (d) the inadequate Brazilian health system, with its
deficient physical structure and lacking a complementary services organization capable of surmounting
the difficulties of a geographic nature, the ethnocultural challenges involved and the complications
arising from the widely scattered locations in which these population groups live.

1.2 Project components

From the operation standpoint, VIGISUS I was divided into three components10/(see annex 10), namely:

Component I ­ Integrated Projects.              This component was designed to enable the states,
municipalities and other institutions to prepare projects for organizing their health surveillance areas,
covering the four strategic areas in the case of the states of Legal Amazonia or three areas for the other
states with indigenous populations. The projects were to provide for the procurement of equipment and
vehicles, construction and renovation of physical structures, staff training and hiring of consultants.
The funds were transferred through agreements concluded between FUNASA/MoH and the requesting
party.

Component II ­ Technical and Institutional Training and Development. This component included
actions programmed and executed by the federal authority in the fields of infrastructure, with the
physical rehabilitation of structures and reequipment of services, construction and equipment of
laboratories and physical areas for epidemiological and environmental surveillance, together with the
functioning of health services for the indigenous populations, technical and management training
(training of professionals, contracting of teaching and research centers, contracting of national
reference centers, contracting of research), training of indigenous health and sanitation agents, training
of indigenous community health advisers, setting up of indigenous district health councils, and hiring of
consultants.

Component III ­ Project Administration. Resources allocated to administration of the project, to
help finance the administrative and operating costs of the Project Management Unit.

2. Scope of the objectives and outputs of the VIGISUS I Project

2.1 Scope of the objective

The results of VIGISUS I can be evaluated on the basis of the degree of structuring of the National
Epidemiological and Environmental Surveillance System. Both the central level professionals and
those working at the local level unanimously acknowledge the improvement evident in the system and
its organization. Today the municipalities and the 27 states are responsible for the performance of
disease surveillance and control actions, while the central authorities have responsibility for policy
formulation and establishment of rules and standards, but only serve as executing agencies when so
needed to complement or supplement the states' limited or nonexistent resources (Ministerial Order No.
1399/GM of December 15, 1999). The creation of the Secretariat of Health Surveillance by Decree
No. 4726 of June 9, 2003 demonstrates the importance assigned to the area and the progress made in
structuring disease surveillance in the country.




                                                 - 36 -

Even though the structural progress achieved with disease surveillance cannot be attributed solely to
the VIGISUS I project, its effects are being felt in the unquestionable development of the central
authorities' analysis capacity concerning the health situation and the importance assigned to this, as
evidenced by the creation of a Health Situation Analysis Department within the Secretariat of Health
Surveillance, which has taken the place of CENEPI, in the Ministry of Health. It is also involved with
the organizational restructuring of the Central Epidemiological Surveillance Unit, with the changes in
the operating procedures in its technical areas and its prompt response in investigating rare illnesses.
Furthermore, it is involved with the structuring of the National Environmental Surveillance System in
Health (SINVAS) and with the surveillance of the quality of water for human consumption, which is
now being carried out in 19 states. The strategic area of disease control in Legal Amazonia, although
still wrestling with many problems connected with technical capacity, nevertheless demonstrates
significant progress in terms of the improvement in diagnoses, notifications and information in general,
which are outcomes of the concern to enhance the technological capacity for disease diagnosis through
strengthening of the infrastructure and training of the technical staff working in the region. Finally,
there is the implementation of the indigenous populations health subsystem with the creation of 34
Special Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs), with their respective district councils designed to ensure
effective social control. There was also the Third National Indigenous Health Conference, which
provided the opportunity to evaluate the establishment process of the health subsystem and to redirect
the operational aspects of the National Policy on the Health of Indigenous Populations.

2.2 Outputs by component

Component I. The absence of a system for monitoring the implementation of the project at the state
and municipality level made it very difficult to ascertain the outputs achieved by the implementing
agencies of the integrated projects, whether they were states or municipalities. The limited information
available about the budget performance of the projects showed that less equipment was purchased than
was projected to be necessary for states and municipalities. However, this fact could be explained by
the decentralization taking place at that time in the Brazilian health sector. Due to the decentralization
of the Ministry of Health's financial resources to the municipalities, by means of transfers from the
National Health Fund to the State and Municipal Health Funds, the resources in question became
available before the VIGISUS funds and the states and municipalities were accordingly able to procure
the required equipment before the project funds reached them.               Health-related environmental
surveillance actions are now being carried out in all Brazilian states including, in particular,
surveillance of the quality of water for human consumption. In at least 15 states this environmental
surveillance is being performed on a structured basis, with 14 of them possessing specific physical
facilities for these actions. Nevertheless, the marked differences between the states in the organization
of health-related environmental surveillance is something that needs to be addressed.

In Legal Amazonia, the improvement in diagnoses and notification and in data quality was cited by the
managers interviewed, who noted that in the case of American tegumentary leishmaniasis 10,000 cases
were notified in 2000 and 37,000 in 2002. However, the high turnover of professionals in the services
of this region is a major constraint. Professionals tend to stay in the region until they can obtain jobs in
other states, a situation that causes a serious problem as regards maintaining the quality of the region's
services.

As agreed with the Project Completion Mission of October 6-10, 2003, and indicated in the respective
Aide Mémoire, a Relatório Síntese dos Estados, incluindo resumo a nível federal [Summary Report
on the States, including a Summary at Federal Level], will be submitted by January 15, 2004 (Aide
Mémoire, p.2 ­ Next Steps).


                                                 - 37 -

Component II. The outputs of this component were better documented and major structural progress
is apparent in the strategic areas. For the Epidemiological Surveillance program area the following can
be noted:

·    Standardization of the components of the National Disease Surveillance System, by means of:
definition of events of epidemiological importance for notification; publication of the Epidemiological
Surveillance Manual; definition of instruments for notification; definition of flows and frequencies for
the sending of notifications; and establishment of the Sistema de Informação de Agravos de
Notificação (SINAN) [Disease Notification System], using Windows in 3,364 municipalities.

·    Improvement of the quality and timeliness of health data by reducing the subnotifications of
mortality and live births in the following regions: North (increase of 24% in the capturing of total
deaths from 1999 to 2002 by the Sistema de Informações sobre Mortalidade (SIM) [Mortality
Information System], and of 11.8% in the capturing of live births by the Sistema de Informação Sobre
Nascidos- Vivos (SINASC) [Live Births Information System] in the same period); Northeast (increase
of 18.4% in the capturing of total deaths from 1999 to 2002 by the SIM, and of 3.1% in the capturing
of live births by the SINASC); and Center-West (increase of 12.1% in the capturing of total deaths
from 1999 to 2002 by the SIM, and of 3.9% in the capturing of live births by the SINASC), these
being the regions in which there were the greatest notification problems. The SINASC coverage
increases were smaller, probably because that system was already more efficient in 1999.

·    Reduction of the lag in publication of the data from the SIM and SINASC databanks from 24
months to 12 months.

·    Improvement and timeliness of publication of health data on the system site, a recognized location
for the publishing of technical data for the general public and for scientific communications for
professionals, and also publication of the SUS Epidemiological Report (financed for two years with
VIGISUS funds).

·    Performance of the National Inquiry on Risk Factors for Noncommunicable Diseases by the
National Cancer Institute, with field work already done in 17 state capitals.

·    Performance of 15 research studies, all of which have been completed with the findings of 12 of
them already published. The activities connected with these studies were started in 1999, with
financing by the VIGISUS project. A public invitation to tender was published, with terms of reference
in various priority lines of research and specifying the outputs expected. A manual was prepared that
detailed all the criteria and selection stages and a technical and scientific committee appointed by
official order coordinated the final stage of the process. This was the first selection process for
research studies; however, the second could not be carried out with project funds because of the
restrictions imposed by the Bank's rules.

·    Operational research studies were carried out by the Professor Hélio Fraga Reference Center (on
tuberculosis), by the Evandro Chagas Institute and by the National Primate Institute;

·    Contracts were entered into with six collaborating centers, four of which have already submitted
their finished products, namely the Instituto Materno Infantil de Pernambuco (IMIP) [Pernambuco
Maternal and Child Institute], the Centro Latino Americano de Estudos sobre Violência e Saúde



                                                  - 38 -

(CLAVES) [Latin American Center for Studies related to Violence and Health], Instituto Nacional do
Câncer (INCA) [National Cancer Institute], and the Instituto de Saúde Coletiva (ISC/BA) [Collective
Health Institute], while two ­ the Centro Brasileiro de Classificação de Doenças (CBCD) [Brazilian
Disease Classification Center] and the Instituto René Rachou/FIOCRUZ e UFMG (FIOCRUZ and
UFMG) [Rene Rachou Institute] ­ are still working on theirs.

·   Construction and equipment of twelve border laboratories; the works have been completed for nine
of these and completion for the other three is expected in December 2003, with all equipment in the
delivery stage.

·   Alterations and equipment for nine national reference laboratories four of which are scheduled for
completion in December 2003, four more for January 2004 and one for April 2004. The equipment
contracts have been let for eight.

·   Implementation of the new version of the information system for laboratories in 20 states, and
implementation planned in three more by December 2003.

·   Equipment for making SINAN operational in priority municipalities (those with over 15,000
inhabitants); 630 microcomputers, printers and stabilizers were procured.

The technical training of professionals in this program area was a deciding factor for the improvement
of the system. Collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and
with other Brazilian training centers enabled implementation of major training efforts, such as:

·   Training Program in Applied Epidemiology for SUS staff ­ EPI-SUS ­ with two groups trained by
August 2003 and 21 professionals graduated. In the period July 2002 ­ July 2003 these professionals
investigated 42 outbreaks, totaling approximately 6,978 cases and 93 deaths, in 17 states. Two of
these investigations received international awards.

·   Data for Decision-Making (DDM), with training of 23 professionals.

·   First and Second Specialized Training Courses in Epidemiology Systems and Services
Management (VIGEPI), with the training of 40 professionals in Brazil, from the epidemiological and
health-related environmental surveillance sectors of FUNASA's regional coordinating offices.

·   Training of Biosafety Multipliers, with the training of 226 higher-level technicians from the 27
states, FUNASA, the Osvaldo Cruz Foundation Biosafety Unit, the National Institute of Quality
Control in Health and the Pasteur Institute. Eighty-four training courses were run for these multipliers,
with training being provided to 1,350 higher-level and 1,632 mid-level professionals.

·   Courses in Basic Principles of Outbreak Investigation, with 138 technicians trained by December
2001.

·   Training courses in the use of SINAN, with a total of 6,778 health professionals trained, 50% of
them with VIGISUS funding.

·   Course on Evaluating the Quality of Data and Calculating Epidemiological Indicators (120
professionals).



                                                - 39 -

In the Environmental Surveillance in Health program area, the area's technical structuring and the
great progress attributable to the VIGISUS project are verifiable by means of the following outputs:

·   Expansion of the technical team to 40 professionals with qualifications in various areas.

·   Organization of the area with six subsystems: (1) surveillance of the quality of water for human
consumption (with implementation of SISAGUA, training and performance of studies); (2) surveillance
of population exposed to pollutants in soil; (3) surveillance of air quality; (4) surveillance of accidents
with hazardous materials; (5) surveillance of biological factors; and (6) national subsystem of
Health-related Environmental Surveillance Laboratories.

Training was also a factor in the advances achieved in this program area. A specialization course
offered by the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro trained technicians from 20 Brazilian states. In the
year 2000 alone, VIGISUS trained 1,500 mid- and higher-level technicians, and a further 775 in 2001.
A basic environmental surveillance course (CBVA) was run on a countrywide basis, resulting in over
8,000 technicians in this specialty being trained.

For Legal Amazonia the investments were focused on staff training together with computer equipment
and field laboratories designed to support diagnostic work in the region. The chief outputs in 2002
were:

·   Training of 35,746 primary care professionals in malaria diagnosis and treatment; municipal
management of control of endemic diseases; health surveillance and bringing of the Malaria
Information System into operation with funding from the National Treasury, while VIGISUS funds
were used to train 600 technicians in tuberculosis and leprosy prevention and control; 175 multipliers
for training in diagnosis and treatment of American tegumentary leishmaniasis; 239 professionals for
diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis; and 37 technicians trained for viral hepatitis.

·   Laboratory equipment: 82 microscopes and other equipment items procured for tuberculosis and
leprosy control; 888 microscopes and 50 microcomputers for dengue fever control; 9 Elisa sets and 9
computers with printers for hepatitis control.

In the area of the health of indigenous populations the following outputs, among others, can be
emphasized:

·   Training of 2,747 district advisers in indigenous populations' health needs; 3,603 community
health agents in indigenous populations' health needs; 2,576 higher-level professionals to work in the
area of the health of indigenous populations, together with 1,243 mid-level and 4,343, basic-level
professionals.

·   Designing and development of an information system for the health of indigenous populations
(SIASI) in operation in 314 base centers and in the head office of the 34 Special Indigenous
Populations Health Districts (DSEI), which receive and process data from 3,233 villages; 360
professionals were trained for the implementation of the system. At the present time 398,321 members
of indigenous ethnic groups have been registered and are receiving the health services.




                                                 - 40 -

·   Construction of 69 buildings ranging from health posts for indigenous populations to Indian health
centers.

·   Setting up of midwives' offices in the DSEI; holding of working meetings with traditional healers
to secure their cooperation in dealing with problems of alcoholism and suicide, in the states of Rio
Grande do Sul and Mato Grosso do Sul, and rehabilitation of prayer houses, i.e. lodges used for rituals
and ceremonial observances.

·   Establishment of the Center for Monitoring the Mental Health of Indigenous Populations, with the
aim of proposing strategies, methods and instruments that will make it possible to develop specific
work programs with the DSEI.

3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1 Structural and organizational constraints of FUNASA

·   These constraints were felt at the start of the drafting of the agreements with the states and
municipalities, as a result of the huge volume of processes and procedures, which required considerable
time and resources for their analysis. It was accordingly decided to conclude the agreements with
states alone, who would then be required to transfer the funds to the municipalities, an arrangement
that encouraged centralization of the resources.

·   Another constraint of the same sort was due to the time taken in evaluating the bids and technical
projects, some of which spent almost two years in the negotiation stage.

·   Regarding the area of the health of indigenous populations, mention can be made of the lack of
institutional experience, budgetary and financial constraints, the impossibility of hiring human
resources, limited understanding of the sociocultural circumstances of the various indigenous ethnic
groups and the absence of health infrastructure in the communities.

3.2 Structural, organizational and technical constraints of the states and municipalities

·   The technical support units created in the states to support the municipal projects did not have
sufficient technical and operating capacity.

·   As regards technical constraints, in general terms there was insufficient capacity available in the
state and municipal echelons for analyzing the health situation, since they were not at the level of
development of the central authorities.

·   In the Northern Region, the municipalities found it hard to retain professionals, and frequently lost
recently trained individuals. In large measure, the retention problems were due to the professionals
concerned not being from the states of that region, which meant that they tended to move away when
they could get jobs in their home regions.

·   Low capacity for implementing the health actions for indigenous populations, which can have the
effect of the indigenous populations not being served when they should be by the health services,
especially at the municipal level, where there are social tensions centering around land ownership.




                                                 - 41 -

3.3 Constraints relating to project implementation

·   The initial intention of setting up a monitoring and evaluation unit for the establishment and
implementation of the project was not carried out, with the result that only the physical and financial
implementation was monitored.

·   The failure to monitor project progress and limitations in states in general made it impossible to
take quick and effective corrective action.

·   The insufficient consolidated technical data available for this evaluation of the first phase made for
an analysis based more on managers' assessments than on objective data, with the result that the final
analysis lacked balance from the objectivity/subjectivity standpoint.

·   A further constraint in this respect was the question of insufficient active guidance by the central
level, which could have helped toward efficient system-wide organization of health surveillance,
especially as regards health-related environmental surveillance, which is of a recognized degree of
sophistication at the central level but not so far advanced in the great majority of states.

·   The excessive bureaucratic procedures for decentralization of budgetary and financial resources to
the FUNASA Regional Coordinating Offices, especially in the sphere of the health of indigenous
populations.

3.4 Constraints resulting from World Bank rules

·   The procedure used for transferring funds, based on agreements, was unanimously deprecated by
those interviewed, some of whom even went so far as to term it positively perverse. Considerable time
and resources were wasted on preparing, analyzing and reviewing the agreement processes.

·   The goals of the research studies would have been comprised by difficulties encountered during
their execution if the Bank rules' had been followed, were it not for FUNASA's decision to fund them
with its own resources. In 2001, when the second call for bids on these studies was on the point of
being published, the Bank insisted that the World Bank procurement rules be followed, although that
procedure would not have met the needs of the Ministry of Health. Because of this obstacle, the studies
were carried out with funding from the National Treasury.

·   Another constraint imposed by the Bank's rules was connected with the selection of institutions to
run the training courses for specialists and master's-level professionals. The original intention was that
courses would be selected that would meet the particular training needs in various regions of the
country. The format required by the Bank stipulated a single call for bids for selection of the different
courses, which was also unsuited for meeting the Ministry of Health's needs. The courses were
accordingly held and financed with government funds.

4. World Bank Performance and its Relations with the National Health Foundation/MoH

The VIGISUS I project was designed in a health context characterized by assistance-related activities
and resources that were insufficient, which meant that a line of financing giving priority to surveillance
was essential for the system-wide structuring of surveillance for health purposes. The granting of a
loan for this purpose, in conjunction with the Brazilian Government, must in itself be rated a positive



                                                  - 42 -

performance on the Bank's part, by which it sought to align its lending with the borrowers' needs. It
must be emphasized, however, that the rules governing the use of IBRD loan funds entail at times even
greater complications than those imposed by the Federal Government, and can on occasion have a
paralyzing effect, as noted in connection with the above-described constraints.

The Bank always endeavored to staff its missions with technical specialists of recognized ability in
their particular areas of interest, but at times some of these specialists' unfamiliarity with the workings
of the Brazilian health system led to difficult negotiations and problems in developing and
implementing actions; the contracting of collaborating centers, and of research and the setting up of the
Health Surveillance Training Network, can be cited, noting in particular that the two last-named were
implemented with funding from the National Treasury.

In light of the difficulties experienced at certain points in the negotiations, it is apparent that the lessons
already learned have been used as talking points for preparation of the second phase of the project and
for agreeing on the financing arrangements. The present epidemiological teams of the states and
municipalities, which have now gained experience in the design and objectives of the project, will have
to focus on achieving greater nimbleness and efficiency in the implementation of Phase II.

5. Significant lessons learned and which can be applied in the future

5.1 Funds must be transferred to the states and municipalities more swiftly and the programmed
processes must be simplified. The resource-transfer strategy based on agreements has proven
unworkable and has caused obstacles to the implementation of the project, chiefly when a large number
of beneficiaries are involved.

5.2 Without prejudice to the decentralization principle and while fully respecting the autonomy of
the states and municipalities, the federal level must assume a more explicit directing role.
Primarily by channeling investments to the areas that displayed the greatest weaknesses in the first
phase of the project.

5.3 Provide for, among the resource-transfer criteria, analysis of the integration of the state and
municipal projects within an overall regional and system-wide development strategy. One of the
problems identified in the projects of certain states was the fragmentation of resources by the
municipalities without an overall strategy for development of health surveillance.

5.4 Provide for and properly perform the monitoring of implementation of the state and
municipal plans and train the states to monitor the municipalities. Because there is no system for
properly monitoring the municipal and state projects it is not possible to achieve a more objective
analysis of Component I and not many lessons can be drawn from project execution at those levels.

5.5 Provide for and properly perform systematic registration of data as an instrument for
management to use for evaluation purposes. This should be an essential tool for project monitoring
and evaluation.



5.6 Project management, at both the central and the state levels, must be composed of a balanced
mix of technical specialists in the strategic areas and operating and financial managers. There was
a marked dichotomy between the teams making up the Technical Support Units or the Project



                                                  - 43 -

Management Unit and the technical health surveillance teams in the states and the central level, which
led to operating problems.

5.7 Streamline the procedures for construction projects, possibly by means of hiring outside
consultants, in order to avoid the delays that occurred in Phase I. Some engineering projects took
almost a year to be approved, which was due to the overwhelming number of projects to be analyzed
and supervised by the FUNASA engineering division.

5.8 Study strategies for retaining professionals in the Northern Region states. This is one of the
greatest obstacles to improving the quality of health surveillance in that region, because trained
professionals are prone to leave it as soon as they can obtain positions elsewhere, particularly if their
roots are not in the region.

5.9 Expand the management capacity of the state and municipal levels. One of the problems noted
is the inadequate management capability of professionals working in the health surveillance area.
Investments will have to continue being made in the necessary training.

5.10 Promote better integration with the assistance areas. Mainly with the Family Health Program
Teams.

5.11 Expand the technical capacity for performing epidemiological and operational analyses.

5.12 Implement health actions to benefit indigenous populations through NGOs, for
cost-effectiveness reasons.

5.13 Perform operating research and evaluations to track the performance of the health
subsystem for indigenous populations.

5.14 Define a model for the health of indigenous populations that will ensure its sustainability for
the intended beneficiaries in light of the institutional requirements and the social forces in play.

5.15 There is an institutional need to define indicators for assessing the costs and benefits
involved.




                                                - 44 -

Additional Annex 10. Endnotes

1/ Surveillance is defined as the "ongoing systematic collection, collation, analysis, and interpretation of data; and
the dissemination of information to those who need to know in order that action be taken" (WHO). A national
surveillance system: (i) collects basic information necessary at the municipal and state levels for the control of
diseases, epidemics and environmental health hazards; and (ii) proposes measures to prevent and control the
development of epidemics.

2/ The importance of surveillance in reducing disease has been demonstrated in the global effort that eradicated
smallpox; elimination of polio in the Americas; control of cholera, SARS and other epidemics.

3/ FUNASA was created in 1991. It is a public foundation linked to the Ministry of Health that was in charge of
public health surveillance and disease control at the time VIGISUS 1 began.

4/ The original indicator was: New SINAN system in place and operational in 75% of public health laboratories. It
quickly became clear that this was an enormous task and the indicator was modified in 2001 to a laboratory module
for one disease operational in 20 national or macroregional laboratories.

5/ Modified in 2001. The original indicator was: New SINAN system in place and operational in 75% of public
health laboratories. It quickly became clear that this could not be achieved in the proposed timeframe necessitating
its modification.

6/ Modified in March 2001 from 55 to 22.

7/ Modified in October 2001 from "All states and one-third of municipalities have internet access" to "All states
and one third of municipalities have equipment to use National Surveillance System information systems.

8/ The project costs in Annex 2 reflect data as of October 20, 2004.The Borrower is still within the four month
grace period (until October 30, 2004) and is preparing the final disbursement application for submission to the
Bank. We estimate the total request will be around US$198,000. The remaining balance will be cancelled.

9/ The Secretariat of Health Surveillance was created by Decree No. 4726 of June 9, 2003, and has assumed
responsibility for management of the National Systems of Epidemiological Surveillance, Environmental
Surveillance (Health), Information and Public Health Laboratories, and of the National Immunization Program,
and CENEPI has ceased to exist.

10/ World Bank clarification: Components identified here are not the same as in the PAD. The components were
redefined by the MOH/FUNASA to facilitate operations.




                                                         - 45 -

- 46 -

