Page  1
December 17, 2002 
 
Mr. Pedro Sampaio Malan 
Ministro da Fazenda 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
Esplanada dos Ministérios – Bloco “P” – 8º andar 
Brasilia, DF 70048-900, Brazil 
 
Re:  
Loan No. 4394-BR (Disease Surveillance and Control Project)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the Federative Republic of Brazil, dated December 11, 1998, with respect to the above-
captioned Project (the Loan Agreement).  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the 
meaning assigned to them in the Loan Agreement. 
 
We hereby notify you that the Bank has extended the date referred to under Section 2.03 of the 
Loan Agreement to December 31, 2003. 
 
Besides, and following on our discussions with you, we propose to amend the following sections 
of the Loan Agreement: Whereas (A), Sections 1.02 (c), (h), (i) (q), (u), (v) and (w), 3.01(a), 3.02(a) and 
(b), the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, Part B.1(b)(iv) of Schedule 2, Section I Parts C.1 and C.2 of 
Schedule 4, and Section II Part C.3 of Schedule 4.   
 
In addition, as of the date hereof the Bank has not received a copy of the amendment proposed by 
the Bank on February 16, 2000 (related to Project Monitoring Reports) countersigned by you.  Your 
signing of this letter shall imply an agreement not to proceed with the referred amendment proposal of 
February 16, 2000.  
 
As a consequence of this amendment, the Loan Agreement shall read in its entirety as the 
attachment to this letter.   Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment (including stopping 
the processing of the February 16, 2000 proposed amendment) by signing and dating the two originals of 
this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to us.  This amendment shall enter into effect 
as of its date first above written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.  
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Vinod Thomas 
Director 
Brazil – Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  2
AGREED: 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By: _____________________ 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Name: 
Maurício Cardoso Oliva 
 
Attorney of the National Treasury 
 
Date: 
January 31, 2003 
 
Page  3
Attachment 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4394-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Disease Surveillance and Control Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 11, 1998 
(as amended on December 17, 2002) 
 
Page  4
LOAN NUMBER 4394-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1998 between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank), as amended on December 17, 2002. 
 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated July 30, 1998 (and its addendum dated July 
30, 2002 
–letter number 824/GM), from the Borrower to the Bank enclosing the Borrower’s Disease 
Surveillance and Control Program (hereinafter the DSC Program or Program) which consists of a series 
of activities to strengthen the Borrower’s National Disease Surveillance and Control System (as 
hereinafter defined) through: (i) the improvement of the data management telecommunications system; 
(ii) the rehabilitation of the laboratory network; and (iii) the training of staff; 
 
WHEREAS (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase of the DSC 
Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to 
the Borrower in support of the first phase of the DSC Program upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the 
General Conditions) with the modification set forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this 
Agreement; 
Page  5
(b) 
“Banco Central” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower’s Central Bank; 
 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means any public (including a Municipality or a State, as such terms are 
hereinafter defined) or non-profit entity  located in the Borrower’s territory, eligible under the Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined), which is responsible for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(d) 
“BSL-2” means biosafety laboratory 2, which is a laboratory facility capable to handle 
pathogens that can cause human or animal disease, but are unlikely to represent a serious hazard to 
laboratory workers, the community or the environment; 
 
(e) 
“BSL-3” means biosafety laboratory 3, which is a laboratory facility capable to handle 
pathogens that usually cause serious human or animal disease, but do not ordinarily spread from one 
infected individual to another; 
 
(f)  
“Border Laboratories” means those laboratories to be created under the DSC Program to 
control imported diseases that will help diagnose main endemic diseases which cross borders, and will 
handle other routine laboratory tests;  
 
(g) 
“FNS” means Fundação Nacional da Saúde, the Borrower’s National Health Foundation, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 100 of April 16, 1991, the Project implementation 
entity referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank); 
 
(h) 
“Grant” means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Loan, for the purposes of partially financing the costs of a 
Subproject pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) or Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.02 (a) and 
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement for the provision of a Grant; 
 
(j) 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Framework”  means the section of the Operational 
Manual which contains the principles, criteria and procedures that shall apply to the preparation and 
carrying out of any Subproject under Part B.2 of the Project; 
 
(k) 
“Legal Amazon” means the area referred to in Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 5,173 of 
October 27, 1966 and Article 45 of Complemental Law No. 31 of October 11, 1977, which comprises the 
following States (as hereinafter defined), or part thereof, of the Borrower: Acre, Amapá, Amazonas, 
Maranhão, Mato Grosso, Pará, Rondonia, Roraima and Tocantins; 
 
(l) 
“MIS” means the Project monitoring and information system, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
provide information on the Project implementation, which shall include, inter alia, the indicators set forth 
in the DSC Program; 
 
(m) 
“MOH” means Ministério da Saúde, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;  
 
(n) 
“Municipality” means the Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in the 
Borrower’s Constitution; 
 
(o) 
“National Disease Surveillance and Control System” means a surveillance system that: (i)  
collects the basic information necessary at the municipal and state levels for the control of diseases, 
Page  6
epidemics, and environmental health hazards; and (ii) proposes measures to monitor and control the 
development of epidemics; 
 
(p) 
“National Reference Laboratories” means laboratories that review test methods and 
results from lower-level laboratories, when requested, and are often specialized in a particular disease; 
 
(q) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual issued by MOH in June 1998 (including the 
administrative and financial procedures revised in October 2001 and a procurement manual for 
Beneficiaries), satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia: (i) the procedures and criteria related to 
training, technical assistance, environmental protection and other activities to be carried out under the 
Project; (ii) the criteria and procedures for the selection, and the procedures for the carrying out, of 
Subprojects (as issued in 1999 and amended in July 2002); (iii) the Indigenous Peoples Development 
Framework; (iv) the allocation of Project funds for the benefit of States and Municipalities on the basis of 
technical criteria such as population size and disease incidence; and (v) the standard form of a Grant 
Agreement; as such Operational Manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(r) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit established pursuant to FNS’s Portaria  No. 
231 of July 1, 1998; 
 
(s)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;  
 
(t) 
“State” means the Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in the Borrower’s 
Constitution; 
 
(u) 
“Subproject” means a Subproject 1 or a Subproject 2;  
 
(v) 
“Subproject 1” means any investment referred to in Parts A.1 (b), A.2 (a), A.3, A.4, A.5, 
B.1 (b) and B.2 of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant and 
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and  
 
(w) 
“Subproject 2” means any study or research referred to in Part A.6 of the Project to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant and which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(x) 
“Zoonoses Centers” means municipal health units that undertake: (i) the surveillance and 
control of zoonoses (i.e., diseases transmitted by vertebrate animals, such as rabies and leishmaniasis) 
through the identification of sick animals, their immunization and elimination if necessary; (ii) 
entomological surveillance and vector control; and (iii) control of poisonous reptiles. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the 
amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of 
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawals. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank 
Page  7
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from 
time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable 
during such Interest Period. 
 
(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.   
 
(c)  
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with 
the Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed. 
 
(ii) 
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’ s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(iii) 
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of a calendar  
 
year. 
 
(d) 
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice to the Borrower, 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified 
 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
 
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  
 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.” 
 
Page  8
“(b)  
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify 
 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter.”  
 
“(c) 
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, April 1, 
 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.” 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 
in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.08. The Minister of Health, and the person or persons designated in writing by such 
Minister, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required 
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, through MOH, shall: (i) carry out Parts A.1 (a), 
A.2 (b), A.6, A.7, B.1 (a) and C of the Project, and its corresponding activities under Parts A.4, A.5 and 
B.2 of the Project; (ii) cause the Beneficiaries, pursuant to the relevant Grant Agreement as referred to in 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, to carry out Parts A.1 (b), A.2 (a), A.3 and B.1 (b) of the Project, and 
their corresponding activities under Parts  A.4, A.5 and B.2 of the Project, and (iii)  cause the 
Beneficiaries, pursuant to the relevant Grant Agreement as referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, to carry out Part A.6 of the Project, 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with: (i) the Operational Manual; (ii) the relevant Annual Operating Plan; and (iii) appropriate 
administrative, financial, health and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MOH,  shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, within FNS, until the completion of the Project a coordination unit (the 
PCU) with adequate responsibilities, structure and functions, and with staff in adequate 
numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) assisting in 
the overall coordination and carrying out of the Project; (B) preparing  the relevant 
Annual Operating Plan for the Bank’s approval; and (C) approving Subprojects costing 
$3,000,000 or less and recommending those Subprojects costing more than $3,000,000 to 
the Bank for approval, all in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
(ii) 
not later than one hundred and twenty days after the Effective Date, put into  
 
effect the MIS.  
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and, 
for the purposes of providing funds for the Project, the Borrower shall, through MOH, enter into 
Page  9
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with FNS, such arrangements to include, inter alia, the obligation 
of FNS to:  
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each Beneficiary for the purposes 
of financing, on a grant basis up to ninety percent (90%) of the costs of a Subproject 1, said agreement to 
include the terms and conditions set forth in the standard form for Subprojects 1 contained in the 
Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each Beneficiary for the purposes 
of financing, on a grant basis, up to a hundred percent (100%) of the costs of a Subproject 2, said 
agreement to include the terms and conditions set forth in the standard form for Subprojects 2 contained 
in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(c) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each Grant Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and, except as the Borrower and Bank 
shall otherwise agree, not to assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the Grant 
Agreements, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.  In the preparation and carrying out of any Subproject under Part B.2 of the Project, 
the Borrower, through MOH, shall, inter alia, ensure that the principles, criteria and procedures set forth 
in the Indigenous Peoples Development Framework are incorporated and applied in manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through MOH, shall: 
 
(a) 
In the months of February and August during each year of Project implementation, 
starting in August 1999, prepare on the basis of the MIS and furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports on 
the progress in the implementation of the Project, such reports to take into consideration the indicators set 
forth in the DSC Program, and to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
The report to be issued in the month of August during each year of Project implementation, starting in 
August 1999, shall include a section on a special examination carried out by specialized consultants on 
whether the procurement of goods and works, and the employment of consultants were carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
In the months of March and September during each year of Project implementation, 
starting in March 1999, hold semi-annual reviews (the review to take place in September 2000 to be the 
mid-term review) jointly with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the report referred to in paragraph 
(a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by 
the Borrower and the Bank, during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and 
within the timetable agreed upon during any of such reviews; and 
 
(c) 
In the month of October during each year of Project implementation, starting in October 
1999, furnish to the Bank for approval an annual plan prepared by the PCU, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (including Subprojects) to be carried 
out during the next twelve months, including the costs thereof. 
Page  10
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower, through MOH, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not 
later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower  on  said  
plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts 
and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  11
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement has been established. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of Section 
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the Loan Agreement has been validly registered by Banco Central. 
 
Section 5.03. The date March 11, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar 
 
70048-900, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
Page  12
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério da Saúde 
 
Fundação Nacional de Saúde 
 
SAS Quadra 04, Bloco N - Sala No. 501 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
  
  % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 
Expenditures 
 
Category 
 
 
   Dollars) 
 
 
to be Financed 
 
(1) 
Subprojects 
 
 
  66,000,000 
 
 
60% of the relevant  
Grant Agreement 
 
(2) 
Works 
    
 
 
5,500,000 
  50% 
 
(3) 
Goods 
    
 
 
5,300,000 
  50% 
 
(4) 
Consultants' 
   
 
 
9,900,000 
  25% 
 Services 
 
(5) 
Training    
 
13,300,000 
  50% 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
 
 
  _______0_ 
 
TOTAL    
100,000,000 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
Payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1997 or a date twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement (i.e., December 11, 1998), whichever is later. 
 
(b) 
Expenditures under a Subproject costing more than $3,000,000 equivalent, unless the 
Bank has approved such Subproject. 
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent 
(except the first two contracts for goods costing between $100,000 equivalent and $350,000 equivalent); 
(ii) works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent (except the first two contracts for works costing 
between $350,000 equivalent and $5,000,000 equivalent); (iii) services of consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve and strengthen the Borrower’s National Disease 
Surveillance and Control System in order to contribute to the reduction of mortality and morbidity 
resulting from communicable diseases. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Strengthening of the National Disease Surveillance and Control System
1. 
Improvement of the Data Management Telecommunications System:  
 
(a) 
Carrying out of the following activities: (i) development and implementation of new 
modules for the Borrower’s public health information system; and (ii) improvement of the data 
telecommunications system at the FNS’s central level. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of the following activities: (i) acquisition of micro-computers, printers, 
telephone access, and vehicles to States, Municipalities and non-profit public entities; and (ii) provision of 
technical assistance to assist States and Municipalities in implementing the improved and standardized 
disease surveillance programs, through, inter alia, the acquisition of hardware and software and carrying 
out of training. 
 
2. Laboratory 
Network 
 
(a) 
Carrying out the upgrading and construction of about fifty Zoonoses Centers. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of the following activities: (i) upgrading of twelve existing National 
Reference Laboratories to convert them from the BSL-2 to the BSL-3 category; and (ii) the construction 
of twelve Border Laboratories.  
 
3. 
Cold Storage Facilities  
 
Carrying out of rehabilitation, expansion, and equipment of  about sixty cold storage facilities to 
strengthen the distribution and storage of vaccines and other perishable medical products. 
 
4. 
Environmental Surveillance Facilities  
 
Carrying out the rehabilitation and equipment of regional entomology centers, and water, air, and 
soil quality laboratories. 
 
5. Training 
 
Carrying out of training activities for Municipal, State, and central FNS staff in areas such as 
epidemiology, laboratory reporting, laboratory biosafety, environmental surveillance, and management. 
 
6. 
Studies and Research in Epidemiological Surveillance.  
 
Page  15
Carrying out of Project-related activities, including: (a) studies on the development and 
implementation of health indicators; (b) periodical population-based health analyses; (c) monitoring and 
evaluation of specific diseases; and (d) publication of epidemiological analyses, guides, and manuals. 
 
7. 
Technical Assistance  
 
In respect of this Part A of the Project, provision of technical assistance in order to assist States 
and Municipalities in Subproject preparation, appraisal, supervision and procurement. 
 
Part B
:
Strengthening of Disease Control in Selected Areas
1. 
Disease Control in the Legal Amazon  
 
(a) 
Carrying out of the following activities: (i) training of about five hundred forty 
community health agents; (ii) management training for about fifty-four public health officials; and (iii) 
training of about ninety technicians in communicable disease surveillance and control. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of the following activities: (i) rehabilitation, expansion, and provision of 
equipment to public health laboratories and other health facilities in the Legal Amazon; (ii) acquisition of 
boats and vehicles; (iii) acquisition and administration of anti-malarial drugs and reagent kits for the 
diagnosis of hepatitis, leishmaniasis, and malaria; (iv) carrying out of drainage works or similar 
environmental management activities related to the control of malaria and (iv) provision of technical 
assistance for Subproject preparation under this Part of the Project. 
 
2. 
Indigenous Health  
 
Carrying out of the following activities: (a) rehabilitation and equipment of health centers, health 
posts, environmental health, and other health facilities adapted to the indigenous culture; (b) acquisition 
of equipment such as basic health equipment which includes scales and stethoscopes, boats, vehicles and 
geographic positioning systems; (c) training of about one thousand indigenous health agents; and (d) 
provision of technical assistance for Subproject preparation under this Part of the Project and for 
organization and training of local indigenous nuclei.  
 
Part C
:
Project Administration
Support for the operations of the PCU through the financing of, inter alia: (a) consultants’ 
services; (b) travel and per diem; (c) training; (d) equipment; and (e) other administrative expenses, such 
as supplies and communications expenses. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003. 
 
Page  16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal  
Date Payment Due 
 
 
 
 
(expressed in Dollars)* 
 
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
beginning May 1, 2004 
 through 
November 
1, 
2013 
   5,000,000 
   
 
_____________________________  
 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the respective  
 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03. 
 
Page  17
Premiums on Prepayment 
 
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the principal 
amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time 
of prepayment below: 
 
Time of Prepayment 
 
 
 
Premium 
 
The interest rate (expressed as  
 
a
percentage per annum) applicable  
 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment  
 
multiplied by: 
 
Not more than three years 
 
 
 
 
0.20 
 before 
maturity 
 
More than three years but 
 
 
 
 
0.40 
 
not more than six years 
 before 
maturity 
 
More than six years but  
 
 
 
0.73 
 
not more than eleven years 
 before 
maturity 
 
More than eleven years but not   
 
 
0.87 
 
more than thirteen years 
 before 
maturity 
 
More than thirteen years before   
 
 
1.00 
 maturity 
 
Page  18
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 
and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated 
to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each; and 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $35,000,000 equivalent, and:  
 
(i) 
works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 per contract to be procured by  
 
 
the Borrower or FNS; and  
 
(ii) 
works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more but less than $5,000,000  
 
 
equivalent per contract to be procured by Beneficiaries under Subprojects;  
 
up to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent, may all be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods 
and works under this Part C.1, bidding documents acceptable to the Bank  in standardized form for the 
Project, shall be used. 
 
Page  19
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the 
following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part 
C.1: 
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account 
factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three 
consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-
ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian 
and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case; 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, minimum or 
maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change order under a 
contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) 
without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount  of 
$20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, to be procured by 
Beneficiaries under Subprojects, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  20
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works procured under Part B.1 of this section; (b) 
the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost between $100,000 and $350,000 equivalent each; and 
(c) the first two contracts for works estimated to cost between $350,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent each, 
the procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Part E
:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes includes the 
Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Additional ao Frete para a 
Renovaçao da Marinha Mercante), established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of 
December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may replace it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Specialized services in disease and environmental surveillance and control up to up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,000,000 in the aggregate shall, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Page  21
Services for small technical and engineering assignments to be procured by Beneficiaries under 
Subprojects, which are estimated to cost not more than $50,000 equivalent per contract and up to an 
aggregate amount of $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.   
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for any single-source selection of consulting firms shall be subject to the Bank’s prior approval. 
Page  22
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 (or such 
other amount as the Bank shall establish, by notice to the Borrower), to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $7,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
for replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to  the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
 
Page  23
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  24
