Document of
The World Bank
Report No; 18342-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
DISEASE SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL PROJECT (VIGISUS)
AUGUST 6, 1998
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Real
Real 0.91 = US$1.00
US$1 =1.1 Real
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Lending
CEME          Central de Medicamentos - Central Pharmaceutical Agency
CONASEMS  Conselho Nacional de Secretarios Municipais de Saude
CONASS        Conselho Nacional de Secretarios de Saude
CNS           Conselho Nacional da Sailde - National Health Council
FUNAI         Fundacao Nacional do Indio - National Indian Foundation
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
FNS           Fundacao Nacional da Saude - National Health Foundation
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MOH           Ministry of Health
NGO           Non-government Organization
NSS           National Surveillance System
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
RNIS          Rede Nacional de Informacoes em Saude - National Health Information Network
SUS           Sistema Unico de Saude - Unified Health System
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Team Leader: Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine



Brazil
Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .......................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .................                                ...............2
B. Strategic Context .......................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ................................................. 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................4
C. Project Description Summary .......................................................6
1. Project components .................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................7
3. Benefits and target population .................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................                          7
D. Project Rationale .......................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or
other development agencies .................................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..........................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................... 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................                            11
E. Summary Project Analyses ......................................................                                                     11
1. Economic ......................................................                                                         11
2. Financial ......................................................                                                        11
3. Technical ......................................................                                                        11
4. Institutional ......................................................                                                     11
5. Social ......................................................                                                           11
6. Environmental assessment ......................................................                                         12
7. Participatory approach ......................................................                                           13
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................................................                                                     13
1. Sustainability ................................................                                                        13
2. Critical risks ................................................                                                         14
3. Possible controversial aspects ................................................                                         14



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                              14
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................                   14
2. Other ........................                                       14
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                       14
L Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                      15
Annexes
Annex 1 a. Project Design Summary
Annex lb. Detailed Project Description
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description and Project Implementation Plan
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Cost
Annex 4.  Financial Summary
Annex 5.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6   Economic Analysis
Annex 7.  Control of Endemic Diseases in the Amazon Region
Annex 8.  Organization and Legal Framework of the FNS
Annex 9.  The Brazilian Epidemiological Surveillance System
Annex 10. The System of Public Health Laboratories
Annex 11. The Data Management Telecommunications System
Annex 12. Training Program
Annex 13. Project Management and Operational Manual
Annex 14. Indigenous Health Development
Annex 15. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 16. Documents in the Project File
Annex 17. Letter from Government
Annex 18. Statement of Bank and IFC Portfolio
Annex 19. Brazil at a Glance



Federative Republic of Brazil
Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Date: August 6, 1998                                Team Leader: Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                 Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: 43874      Sector: Health, Nutrition, &  Program Objective Category: Health Improvement
Pop.
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan          Program of Targeted           [X] Yes  [ ] No
Intervention:
Progrm  incingDa a |:..__:_-._____              Sores sofFinancing(1$illio}
Total Cost        Government             Bank                Total
First APL (1999-2002)           200                100                 100                 200
Second APL (2003-2004)         200                 100                 100                 200
Third APL (2005-2006)          200                 100                 100                 200
Program Cost                  600                300                 300                 600
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan       [] Credit       [ ] Guarantee     [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$): 100 million
Proposed terms:                       [x]  Multicurrency     []  Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years): 3          []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 12-15
Commitment fee: 0.25%.%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                 100                  -             100
IBRD                                                       52                 48              100
Total         152                 48             200
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health (MOH) through Fundacao Nacional da Sauide (FNS)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):   1999       2000       2001       2002
Annual     20         35          35         10
Cumulative     20         55         90        100
Expected effectiveness date: January 1999    Expected closing date: December 31, 2002



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The VIGISUS program seeks to improve and strengthen the national disease surveillance and control system'
(NSS) to contribute to reduce mortality and morbidity resulting from communicable diseases. The program will
consist in three projects phased over eight years that will seek to strengthen the surveillance system nationally
through: (i) the improvement of the data management telecommunications system; (ii) the rehabilitation of the
laboratory network; and (iii) the training of staff. In addition, the program would support disease prevention and
control in the Amazon Region2 and for indigenous populations. The APL instrument is used: (i) to put the
overall program in a broad medium-tern perspective; (ii) because the Government recognizes the difficulty of
designing a comprehensive project and prefers to divide the problem into more realistically implementable
phases; and (iii) the APL instrument allows for corrections and redesign at the end of each phase, based upon
the practical experience of that phase.
Sector Analysis and Vision. A description of some of the main endemic diseases is presented in Annex 7. An
overview of the Brazilian epidemiological surveillance system is presented in Annex 9. A vision of the disease
surveillance system as it is today and as it will be in 10 years is presented in Annex lb. An analysis of the
organization, legal framework and decentralization process of the FNS is presented in Annex 8. The system of
public health laboratories is discussed in Annex 10. The data management telecommunications system is
presented in Annex 11.
Key performance indicators of progress towards program objectives will be measured through a monitoring and
evaluation system. The complete set of monitoring indicators for the program is presented in Annex lb. Passage
from APL I to APL II would be determined based on the analysis by the Borrower and the Bank of
performance of VIGISUS compared to the following selected indicators: (i) at least 50 candidates would have
been trained under the "Basic Principles of Outbreak Investigation" course; (ii) at least 200 superior-level and
100 mid-level staff would have been trained in laboratory biosafety; (iii) 9 national reference laboratories
would have been rehabilitated and equipped; (iv) data and coding standards for the NSS would have been
properly defined; (v) the new notifiable diseases reporting system (SINAN) would be fully operational in at
least 20 national or macroregional public health laboratories (i.e. that these laboratories have each established a
system to monitor the timeliness of reporting and compliance with targets set by the FNS for the key notifiable
diseases); (vi) 300 indigenous community health agents would have been trained; and (vii)the number of cases
of tuberculosis cured in the Amazon Region would have increased by at least 10 percent. Passage from APL II
to APL III would use a set of similar indicators which would be used to establish that the National Surveillance
System has been established including: (i) an adequate information system in all states and 300 municipalities;
and (ii) public health laboratories adequately staffed, and properly equipped in all states.
A national surveillance system is a system that: (i) collects the basic information necessary at the municipal and state levels for the
control of diseases, epidemics, and environmental health hazards; and (ii) proposes measures to monitor and control the development
of epidemics. The basic information collected and published consists of: (i) incidence of disease by regions, age, sex, and ethnic
background; (ii) mortality; and (iii) epidemiological and environmental studies and research. Such a system requires an infrastructure
consisting of: (i) a network of laboratories that undertake exams to confirm clinical diagnoses and establish the existence of an
epidemic or environmental health hazards; (ii) a data management telecommunications system; and (iii) properly trained management
and technical staff. The system is closely linked to the health facilities network in charge of controlling diseases at the community
level either through vaccination, other preventive measures, or curative treatment. One of the most sophisticated epidemiological
surveillance systems is the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. The Brazilian disease surveillance has been in
existence for 20 years. It is extensive and has a positive track record. However, it has become bureaucratic and inefficient.
2 The Amazon region comprises the following 9 states: Acre, Amapa, Amazonas, MaranhAo (western part), Mato Grosso, ParA,
Rondonia, Roraima, and Tocantins.



3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (GAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16582-BR.  Date of latest CAS discussion: CAS update June 2, 1998
The proposed project would directly support the CAS' objectives of helping the government improve the
management, financial viability, and quality of the public health care system that serves the poor, and fulfill its
role as the source of public goods. It will encourage investments in underserved groups by putting emphasis on
the control of communicable diseases that disproportionately affect vulnerable groups in the Amazon region
and indigenous populations. By helping to decentralize the FNS, the project will help the federal government
continue to make the transition from health care provider to health care regulator, and strengthen health system
management capacity at all levels of government.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues are: (i) financing of the system; (ii) deterioration of health care facilities; (iii) quality of
care; (iv) unfinished agenda in addressing health issues; and (v) lingering centralization in some parts of the
system.
(i) Financing. The level of public expenditures (3% of GDP in 1994) was insufficient to pay for a
comprehensive health benefit package for the whole population. This led to rationing and disadvantaged the
poor who are less successful in breaking waiting lists. This has to be read against the continuing
municipalization of the health system that has occasioned increased budget transfers during recent years from
the state to the municipal level. The managerial and financial capacity of the municipalities is mixed and some
of them are unable to provide quality health services. The low population density compounds the access
problem in some parts of the country such as the Amazon Region.
(ii) Deterioration of health facilities. Chronic under-financing has led to a deterioration of facilities, shortages in
essential inputs, and poor remuneration of professionals, leading to inefficiency, poor quality of care, and fraud.
A number of ongoing projects purport to address these issues. The Bank-financed REFORSUS project aims at
correcting the dearth of equipment of public providers (hospitals, health posts, emergency units, specialized
ambulatory units etc.). Private providers also benefit from a line of credit agreed upon between the Brazilian
Federation of Hospitals, the Bank for Economic and Social development (BNDES), and the Ministry of Health.
Finally the provider payment system has recently been restructured to benefit the areas of maternal and child
health, emergency care, intensive therapy, home care, and care for patients with chronic and degenerative
diseases.
(iii) Quality of care. With few exceptions, public sector and many philanthropic hospitals are poorly managed.
The hospital fatality rate that has been increasing since 1991 to a decade-high 2.4 percent in 1995, could be
indicative of an inadequate quality of care'.
(iv) Health issues. Health conditions have improved over the past 20 years. From 1970 to 1993, life expectancy
grew from 61 to 67 years and infant mortality declined from 95 to 42 deaths per 1,000 births. The decline of
child mortality and fertility is creating new demands on the health care system, such as the aging of the
population, and is bringing to the fore non-communicable diseases such as chronic heart and pulmonary
diseases and cancer. Injuries from violence and traffic accidents have growing importance, causing more years
of potential life loss than any other single cause except cancer. Yet communicable diseases remain a major risk
for the poor and the young, especially those living in the North and Northeast where infectious and parasitic
A thorough analysis would require looking at the trends in hospital fatality rates for specific age groups and by cause of death.



4
diseases rank third among the causes of reported deaths. The country is still experiencing recurrent epidemics
of diseases such as malaria, dengue, tuberculosis, kalazar, and AIDS.
(v) Lingering centralization. Although the Unified Health System (SUS) has been largely decentralized, two
areas remained centralized up to recently: the FNS4 and the Central Pharmaceutical Agency (CEME), a federal
agency for the procurement of drugs. The recent closing of CEME confirms the intention of the current
administration to proceed with the institutional restructuring process and transfer activities towards the states
and municipalities.
Government Strategy.
Issues (i) to (iii) are being addressed under the REFORSUS project (Loan 4047-BR). In 1995, provider
reimbursement rates were increased by 25 percent. Also, with Bank assistance, the government prepared a list
of most cost-effective interventions to be fully reimbursed such as to match the system's benefits with resource
constraints. It introduced legislation to allow cost recovery of care provided to privately-insured patients
receiving care under the SUS. Global budgets started to be used for states and municipalities to improve control
over expenditures.
The program to consolidate the SUS, which was initiated in 1995, is expected to last into the next decade. It is
based on a decentralized management model according to which the states and municipalities will assume
autonomy and will have the responsibility to implement health policies and programs. Under this organization
plan, the MOH will ensure that the supply of services does not become fragmented and scattered, and that the
regional, hierarchical system is operating smoothly.
Improved resource allocation would result in better equity in access to services and improved quality. The
MOH will try to give priority and raise provider payment levels for all health care services and activities that
are recognized to be most cost-effective. As a result, in the course of the next ten years, the supply profile
would be redesigned, with an increase in effective and cost-effective services, to the detriment of those that
have not proven to be so.
Activities under the REFORSUS project will make it possible to halt the steady deterioration of the physical
infrastructure and correct the critical shortcomings in management, while reducing fraud and guaranteeing
acceptable quality standards for health care services. In the short and medium term, there should be stable and
regular sources of a viable amount of funding for the SUS.
Issues (iv) to (vi) would be addressed largely under the proposed project, under the on-going AIDS Control
project (Loan 3659-BR) and under a Second AIDS Control project, negotiated in July 1998. The issue of injury
control is high on the Government's agenda and sector work is currently being undertaken on that problem. The
issue of non-communicable diseases will be addressed through policy dialogue with the government.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Health issues. The project would help improve the surveillance and control of communicable and emerging
diseases by strengthening the national epidemiological and environmental surveillance system and would
finance surveillance and disease control subprojects presented by states and municipalities in the Amazon
region and by indigenous populations.
4The FNS is part of the Ministry of Health (MOH). Its organization, legal framework, and decentralization process are presented in
Annex 8.



5
(ii) Lack of coverage of the poor. The disease control part of the project would focus on the nine states of the
Amazon region and will benefit mostly the poor who are affected disproportionately by communicable diseases.
Indigenous populations throughout the whole country would also receive special attention.
(iii) Centralization. The project would help the MOH decentralize the FNS and provide broader responsibilities
to states and municipalities. Thus the FNS would be transformed from a federal vertical program organization
toward a mostly regulatory, monitoring, and technical assistance agency. For the first time, states,
municipalities, and philanthropic health care providers would have the opportunity to present their own
surveillance and control subprojects to be financed under the project in a decentralized manner. The capacity of
states and municipalities to undertake disease surveillance, and control programs would be strengthened.
Additional assistance would be provided to weaker states and municipalities.
(iv) Other issues. Health care financing for disease surveillance and control would be decentralized. As more
states and municipalities would take an increasing share of surveillance and control functions previously
undertaken by the FNS, they would receive financing to that effect under the SUS. Payment by procedures, i.e.
specific tasks, will replace broader contracts. Decentralized financing, together with decentralized management
and technical assistance, is expected to improve the quality of care as resource allocation would be better
adapted to local needs.



6
C: Project Description Summary (see Annexes 2 and 3 for a detailed description and cost
breakdown and Annex 4 for the financing plan)
1. Project components:
Component I. Strengthening of National Surveillance    Institution-       141        71.5%
System. This component, to be implemented nationally,   building,
will:   (i)  improve   the    data   management    physical
telecommunications     system     by     providing
microcomputers, printers, and telephone lines to
municipalities; (ii) rehabilitate, expand, and equip the
laboratory network (about 100 level-I laboratories; 12
level-II border laboratories; 12 level-III laboratories; and
about 50 zoonoses centers); (v) train municipal, state, and
central FNS staff in epidemiology, laboratory reporting,
laboratory biosafety, environmental surveillance, and
management (the detailed training program is presented
in Annex 12); (vi) support studies and research in
epidemiological and environmental surveillance; and (vii)
provide technical assistance for project implementation.
Component II. Strengthening of Disease Control in                          44        22%
Selected Areas. This component will finance: (i) disease
surveillance and control in the nine states of the Amazon
Region focusing on 329 municipalities (out of a total of   Physical,
801) where the incidence of communicable diseases is   institution
the highest; and (ii) improvement in indigenous health in   building
all states with a significant indigenous population. The
Amazon Region subcomponent will finance: (i)
infrastructure rehabilitation; (ii) laboratory equipment;
(iii) transport equipment (vehicles and boats); (iv)
training of community health agents and municipalities'
staff in communicable disease prevention and control;
and (iv) drugs (e.g. antimalarial drugs, diagnosis
reagents, etc.). The indigenous subcomponent, to be
implemented nationally, will finance: (i) rehabilitation
and equipment of health centers, health posts,
environmental, and other health facilities; (ii) equipment;
(iii) training of indigenous health agents; and (iv)
technical assistance.
III. Project Administration. This component would    Project               15         7.5%
help finance the administrative and operating costs of the    management
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) over a 3-year period.
This includes: (i) financing of PCU consultants; (ii)
travel; (iii) training; (iv) equipment; and (v) other
administrative expenses (materials etc.).
Total                                            200        100%



7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reform sought under the project is the reorganization and decentralization of
the ENS which involves: (i) the internal reorganization of the institution; (ii) the transfer of physical assets to
states and municipalities; (iii) a reduction of staff on FNS payroll; and (iv) further decentralization of financing
for disease surveillance and control.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would benefit the whole Brazilian population. It would increase the effectiveness and efficiency of
the health sector by: (i) creating a sound disease surveillance system; (ii) improving the control of diseases, thus
reducing the probability of transmission and of the occurrence or spread of epidemics; (iii) reinforcing the
decentralization process by improving problem-solving capacity at the federal, state, and municipal levels; (iv)
improving the infrastructure and equipment of the laboratory system; and (v) providing training to management
and technical teams at the three government levels.
The second component will benefit the poor significantly, as they are affected disproportionately by
communicable diseases. The implementation of the surveillance system would allow to identify high-risk
groups, and target disease control interventions to the most vulnerable ones. Already-knowvn high-risk groups
such as those living in the Amazon and other frontier populations would receive a strong focus since the
beginning of the project.
From the institutional point of view, states, municipalities, and non-profit health care providers would be
important beneficiaries as their capacity to prepare, evaluate, and implement subprojects would be strengthened
under the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3.5 years (APL I)
Executing agencies: The project would be coordinated by the FNS through a PCU. The PCU would: (i) ensure
the project's management and coordinate project implementation, including maintaining project records and
preparing regular implementation reports; (ii) provide technical assistance to states and municipal subproject
units; and (iii) monitor and supervise the implementation of subprojects. The PCU has been created, staffed,
and is operational. A detailed description of the project management is presented in Annex 13.
Operational Manual. The Operational Manual, prepared by the ENS, defines criteria with which subprojects
would need to comply, including notably the use of proper health protocols, the type of infrastructure required,
the adequacy of staffing or training plan, the availability of recurrent costs to ensure sustainability, and the
measures to be taken to ensure that the environment will not be negatively affected. The main contents of the
Operational Manual are presented in Annex 13.
Accounting, financial reporting and financial arrangements. The financial administration of the project
(including contracting and disbursement) would be coordinated by the PCU, which would disburse funds
directly to states or municipalities or through a third party. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with
a 90-day advance would be established. The project would be audited annually by an independent auditing
agency acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and analysis.
It would use performance indicators, including outcome, output, process and input indicators detailed in Annex
lb. The technical supervision of the subprojects would be carried out by states and municipalities supported,



when necessary, by consultants. Progress reports, including monitoring indicators, would be sent by the PCU to
the Bank every six months.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Flexible Project Design. One alternative design would have been a 100 percent top-down, fully-detailed
blueprint design. However, in the context of a large country like Brazil this has proved to be too rigid. A small
group of staff at the center cannot pretend to know the needs of 27 states and more than 5000 municipalities.
Detailed surveys would provide more information, but would be cumbersome, time-consuming, and would
become quickly out of date. On the other hand, as this is a national surveillance system for which there is need
for an overall concept for the information and laboratory network and basic norms to be followed by the staff in
implementing the system. As a result, the project is partly pre-designed and partly implemented on the basis of
subprojects presented by decentralized institutions. For the pre-designed part, this means that an analysis of
needs, a survey of existing infrastructure and equipment, and a skills analysis of the disease surveillance and
control staff, have led to a detailed definition of a core group of activities that needed to be designed in a
planned fashion so as to ensure a coherent and coordinated effort to strengthen the data management
telecommunications system, the network of laboratories, and upgrade the skills of the staff. This represents
about 40 percent of the project cost.
The rest of the project (60 percent of the project cost) will come under the form of subprojects to be presented
by municipalities, states, NGOs, and other institutions. These subprojects would represent the needs of these
municipalities etc. to complement the pre-designed part. To ensure that they fit within the overall framework,
comply with the norms of the FNS, and are properly targeted, subprojects will be prepared and evaluated
according to eligibility and evaluation criteria included in the Operational Manual. The breakdown between
pre-designed activities and subprojects is presented in Annex 2.
* Size. The second alternative would have been either a larger or a smaller project. A larger project would have
involved supporting disease control in all states. That option would have been ambitious and would stretch the
existing institutional capacity. A smaller project would only be limited to installing a surveillance system in the
Amazon (the same area where disease control improvement would be focused under the project). While
feasible, it would not take advantage of the initial fixed costs and economies of scale involved in the
development of a surveillance system. The alternative chosen (i.e. a surveillance system at the national level,
disease control in the Amazon region, and indigenous health nationally) represents a compromise that is
considered feasible and in line with the present institutional capacity of the FNS, states, and municipalities, and
that to be developed under the project. The choice of the Amazon region for disease control makes sense
because it is the area in Brazil with the highest incidence of communicable diseases.



9
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector Issue                                          L ---t  E--La   S si 
Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)           Objective
(DO)
AIDS prevention           AIDS Control                  HS                     S
and control              (Loan 3659-BR)
Health sector             Health Sector                  S                     S
financing,                Reform
improvement of           (REFORSUS)
infrastructure and        (Loan 4047-BR)
management
Improvement of            Northeast Basic                S                     S
basic health care         Health Services
services                 II (Loan 3135-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _B R )_         _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
Supervision Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project would benefit from the experience of recent health projects in Brazil, namely the Amazon Basin
Malaria Control project, the Northeast Endemic Disease Control project, the Northeast Basic Health Services I
and II projects, the Health Sector Reform project (REFORSUS), and the AIDS Control project.
The Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the Amazon Basin Malaria and Northeast Endemic Disease
Control projects provide valuable advice for the present operation. These two loans totaled US$208 million and
were disbursed over a 6-7 year period. They started with a slow implementation pace, but finished strongly. In
their analysis regarding future operations, the ICRs note that environmental and demographic conditions in the
Amazon Basin and in the Northeast, i.e. poor household and environmental sanitary conditions and the strong
immigration to and within these regions, will continue to favor the occurrence of malaria and other
communicable diseases. State and municipal capacity to control communicable diseases has greatly improved,
but is still weak in many places. Some states and municipalities, such as Amazonas, Northern Mato Grosso, and
Pari (in the Amazon region), and Minas Gerais, Bahia, Pernambuco, and Ceara (in the Northeast) are now able
to take more responsibility for communicable disease control than before, but other states such as Amapa,
Roraima, and Alagoas will continue to need strong assistance from the federal level, i.e. from the FNS. Bank
support for a follow-up disease control operation is thus justifiable. The ICRs suggest that such an operation
should: (i) have broader objectives, i.e. include the control of malaria as well as other communicable diseases
such as dengue; (ii) include demand-driven components to finance state and municipal communicable disease
control subprojects; and (iii) have an institutional development component to strengthen the capacity of weaker
states and municipalities, and assist in restructuring the FNS.
More broadly, the ICRs note that conditions for future operations in the health sector are good. Political,
economic, institutional, and managerial conditions have improved significantly, and the country is much more
capable of carrying out social programs with objectivity and efficiency. With better-trained human resources
and improved management capability achieved through these and other Bank-financed projects, future health
operations in Brazil should be implemented with fewer obstacles and in less time. The ICRs recommend that



10
future operations in the health sector, including those in the area of communicable disease control, include
efforts toward the decentralization and municipalization of health care through the SUS.
Other lessons learned are:
(i) Application of proper disease control models. Under the Amazon Basin Malaria Control project, the
traditional approach of eradicating mosquitoes was replaced with a strategy that emphasized early diagnosis and
immediate treatment of the disease, coupled with targeting insecticides solely to transmission areas. Technical
lessons were also learned for Chagas' disease, schistosomiosis, and leishmaniosis.
(ii) Sustainability. Under the Amazon Basin Malaria and Northeast Endemic Disease Control projects, a new
financing system started to be introduced through which the MOH entered into agreements with municipalities
for the financing of communicable disease surveillance and control activities. The recognition of the need for
specific financing for these activities and the renewal of contracts through the years started to establish the
sustainability of these activities.
(iii) Government commitment. In the past, various changes in Ministers and in project managers have often
resulted in decreased commitment by the Brazilian authorities to project objectives. These problems seem to
have been partially reduced lately with the successful implementation of an economic reform program that has
increased the political and financial stability in the country. Since 1994, most Bank-financed health projects
have had strong Government commitment and fairly stable project management. The present APL design will
help bridge changes in administration by allowing adaptations in specific parts of the program.
(iv) Inadequate project design. Several projects in Brazil have been preceded by poor institutional analysis. As a
result, the design of many projects had to be reviewed during execution, causing delays in implementation and
additional costs. The VIGISUS project, besides being preceded by broad institutional discussions and support,
includes a demand-driven fund-like component, whereby funds are allocated to different geographical areas on
the basis of agreed criteria, and subprojects are presented by the beneficiaries, ensuring their ownership. This
demand-driven approach will facilitate the implementation of the project, as has already been demonstrated
under the REFORSUS and AIDS Control projects which have a similar design.
(v) Poor project implementation arrangements. In the past, project implementation has been affected by: (a)
cumbersome MOH procedures; (b) the large number of steps for financial transactions between the Bank and
the ultimate contractor; (c) improper knowledge by the MOH of Bank procurement guidelines; and (d)
inadequate supervision and technical assistance to states. During the recent years, experience in the
implementation of Bank projects has shown the critical path for project implementation. Use of proper budget
codes for the programming of counterpart funds, flexible modification of state financing agreements, and
significant improvement in knowledge and application of Bank procurement procedures are some of the most
salient factors of progress in project implementation. The design of Project Coordinating Units has also
significantly improved. The VIGISUS PCU have staff with well-defined technical, appraisal, and supervision
functions that would support the implementation of the project by FNS staff. It would help weaker states and
municipalities in subproject preparation, evaluation, and supervision. The manager who was instrumental in the
turnaround of the Amazon Basin Malaria and Northeast Endemic Disease Control projects has been appointed
Director of the VIGISUS' PCU.
(vi) Training and other forms of institutional strengthening should be implemented at least at the same pace as
investments in civil works and equipment. This is contemplated in the project design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The main indications are: (i) the VIGISUS project is included as a Government priority in the President's 1998
Message to Congress: (ii) the federal government has taken the lead in project identification, preparation, and
appraisal; (iii) states and municipalities are being consulted through their representatives in the National Health



11
Council (CNS), the National Health Council of State Health Secretaries (CONASS), and the National Health
Council of Municipal Health Secretaries (CONASEMS); (iv) counterpart funds for the project have already
been included in the 1998 MOH budget; and (v) an experienced and well-recognized manager has been
appointed Director of the PCU.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is the largest financier of communicable disease projects in the world and has financed successful
projects in the Northeast of Brazil and in the Amazon, in the area of communicable diseases including malaria,
Chagas, schistosomiosis and leishmaniosis. The Bank was pioneer in financing health care for indigenous
people in the Amazon, i.e. for the Yanomami. Finally, the Bank has developed valuable experience in executing
projects through states, municipalities, and NGOs in Brazil through the Northeast Basic Health Services I and II
and the AIDS Control projects.
E: Summary Project Analysis (for detailed analysis, see annexes 6-11)
1. Economic. Cost-benefit analysis was undertaken by: (i) estimating the benefits from potential life-years
saved through better disease surveillance; (ii) estimating the benefits from reduced morbidity and the cost of
hospital-days saved by reducing communicable disease incidence; and (iii) comparing benefits with investment
and incremental recurrent costs. The project shows an internal economic rate of return of 36 percent.
The project is expected to be sustainable. In a high scenario, incremental recurrent costs would represent 10
percent of the capital costs incurred in any particular year. Assuming that the health budget would remain
constant as a percentage of total public spending, the resources available to the MOH would be more than
sufficient to cover the additional recurrent costs generated by the project. Sensitivity analysis shows that the
project would be sustainable even if incremental recurrent costs represented 25 percent of capital costs.
The activities proposed under this project are the constitutional obligation of the federal government that will
transfer part of the funds to states and municipalities. The project is not expected to increase the financial
burden on the treasuries of states and municipalities as the federal level is expected to continue to transfer the
funds to states and municipalities as has been the case under previous Bank-financed communicable diseases
projects and under recent practice. The recently-introduced Piso da Aten9ao Basica (PAB) provides a formal
mechanism for the transfer of funds for basic services and disease surveillance activities demonstrates the high
priority that the Government gives to these activities. The transfers to municipalities and states for
epidemiological and environmental surveillance, the primary source of funds for VIGISUS-related activities,
were expected to be set at R$42 million for 1998. The detailed economic analysis is presented in Annex 6.
2. Financial. The financial management capacity of the FNS has been reviewed and found satisfactory. The
FNS has already demonstrated its capacity in that area through the implementation of two Bank-financed
projects.
3. TechnicaL The appropriateness of: (i) the design of the national surveillance system; and (ii) the protocols
used to prevent and cure the principal communicable diseases were analyzed and found to be satisfactory.
Details are provided in Annexes 7, 9, 10, and 11.
4. Institutional. Significant project management capacity has been developed during the Amazon Basin
Malaria and Northeast Endemic Disease Control projects, and the Northeast Basic Health Services I and II.
Project management capacity is strong at the federal level and variable at the state and municipal levels.
Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the capacity of states and municipalities to prepare,
appraise, and supervise subprojects. In addition, during the initial months of project implementation, extensive
technical assistance on procurement will be provided.
5. Social. Since the project will concentrate on institutional strengthening to develop and consolidate a
surveillance system for health in a decentralized environment, the major stakeholders of the project have been



12
identified as the national, state, and municipal governments, health care NGOs, universities, and research
institutions, and the private sector.
Since the project's sustainability will depend on the involvement and commitment of all these stakeholders, the
FNS has been consulting with them and will continue to do so during the coming months to explain the
targeting principles and the eligibility and appraisal criteria for the preparation and appraisal of subprojects.
Indigenous Peoples Issues. Upon the Government's request, a specific subcomponent was included to address
indigenous groups. For the first time, a Bank-financed project will cover indigenous groups nationwide, with
the objectives of strengthening the institutional network involved in providing disease control and health care,
providing training to indigenous community health agents, and supporting specific health care actions.
There are 204 indigenous ethnic groups in Brazil, totaling about 300,000. They are present in 24 of 27 Brazilian
states, but the majority of them live in the Amazon region. According to the Constitutional Law, the federal
government has the mandate to protect this population, safeguard their cultural and social organization, and
guarantee their access to land and productive assets. Since 1991, the FNS and the Fundacdo Nacional do Indio
- FUNAI (National Indian Foundation) share the responsibility for providing health care to the indigenous
peoples. In principle, the FNS focuses on prevention and control of diseases, and FUNAI focuses on primary
care and treatment. There is a visible effort from both to work collaboratively.
An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan has been developed. It addresses: (i) the demographic and
geographical distribution of the indigenous groups; (ii) socioeconomic and health indicators; (iii) legal
framework; (iv) institutional arrangements; (v) existing policies, programs, and actions; and (vi)
recommendations. A workshop took place in October 1997 that brought together representatives of indigenous
groups and indigenous NGOs to launch the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan and discuss further
activities.
6. Environmental assessment.    Environmental Category: B
The project would have a positive environmental impact by specifically addressing the issue of safe handling of
insecticides and laboratory and medical materials and waste. It will also help improve the monitoring and
control of the population density of animal carriers, reservoirs, and vectors of communicable diseases. The
infrastructure and equipment components consider elements of environmental health which will be taken into
consideration in the formulation of subprojects (e.g. safety plans addressing such issues such as handling of
laboratory chemicals, medical waste, their storage, transportation and disposal, etc.). A guide for the
formulation and evaluation of environmental aspects with sections on diagnosis, interpretations, and prevention
of situations will form part of the Operational Manual. The project would also include training on the proper
handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste in laboratories and in other areas.



13
7. Participatory approach.
Preparation         Implementat           Operation
ion
Beneficiaries/community         IS, CON,             IS, CON,             IS, CON,
groups             COL                  COL                 COL
Intermediary NGOs           IS, CON,             IS, CON,            IS, CON,
COL                 COL                  COL
Academic institutions         IS, CON              IS, CON             IS, CON
Local government          IS, CON,             IS, CON,             IS, CON,
COL                   COL                  COL
Private sector         IS, CON,             IS, CON,            IS, CON,
COL                 COL                  COL
(Note: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL).
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups as well as other key stakeholders have been analyzed in the
"social" section earlier.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project builds up on the heritage of previous projects such as the Amazon Basin Malaria and Northeast
Endemic Control projects which have left behind a strong base from which Brazil can continue to carry on its
already successful malaria and other endemic diseases control program. These projects have provided basic
infrastructure, equipment and training to technicians and managers at the state and municipal levels. They have
started a culture of management and accountability which did not exist before.
A second element in favor of sustainability is the consultation undertaken during preparation by the FNS with
the various stakeholders involved, particularly those at the state, municipal, and community levels who will
have key roles in project implementation. Recently, this process was expanded to include other key partners
such as research institutions, universities, and NGOs. The FNS also held extensive discussions with indigenous
groups and indigenous NGOs about the project.
A third element that supports the project's sustainability is the MOH's Basic Operating Norm of January 1996
which defines the financing modalities to pay for health surveillance and disease control activities and was
discussed earlier in the Economic Issues section.



14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to
Objective"
Resistance of management and           Medium/low           Involving the major
operational staff to changed roles                           stakeholders at an early stage of
project   preparation.   Clear
definition of the tasks and
responsibilities at three levels of
government during preparation
mission, with clear restructure of
the FNS.
Number and variety of actors           Low/medium            Assigning    clear    project
involved (federal, states and                                management responsibilities to
municipalities)                                              be coordinated by the PCU,
flexible project design and clear
definition of major participants'
role in the project
Approval of poor-quality               Low/medium            Using transparent eligibility and
subprojects on the basis of                                  evaluation   criteria  for  the
political patronage                                          selection    of    subprojects;
independent  monitoring;  and
financial audit
Overall Risk Rating       Low/medium
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition: establishment of financial management system for the project.
2. Other
(a) adherence to Operational Manual;
(b) mid-term review in September 2000;
(c) contracting of a procurement audit every year on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) maintenance of PCU acceptance to the Bank.
H: Readiness for Implementation. The Project Implementation Plan (see Annex 2) has been appraised and
found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.



15
Team Leader: Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine, LCSHD
Sector Director: Xavier Coll, LCHSD
Country Direc      iT. Nankai



Annex la
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Vision of Disease Surveillance System
The Brazilian diseases surveillance       The system has been reorganized and modernized.
system has a 20-year positive track      It is more efficient, more flexible, and better
record. However, it has become            responsive to local needs of the population and to
bureaucratic and less efficient.          emerging problems.
The scope of the system is largely limited  The scope of system is broader and includes the
to communicable diseases. The approach    monitoring of risk factors, notifiable and chronic
is almost exclusively clinical and leads to  conditions, injuries, and control actions. As a result,
medical solutions.                        there is more focus on lifestyle changes and
enhanced coordination with other sectors such as
agriculture and the environment. The national
surveillance system is flexible and adapts itself as
illness patterns change and new priorities emerge.
The degree of reporting and analysis increases with
incidence of diseases and conditions. The list of
notifiable diseases is better adapted to each state's
epidemiological profile.
A centralized FNS continues to implement  A population-based surveillance system collects
a series of parallel vertical programs (such  and analyzes medical information on individuals in
as tuberculosis, dengue, leishmaniasis,   a well-defined population. The surveillance system
etc.). Each program is independent and    is now decentralized and most of FNS staff has
performs everything from surveillance to  been transferred to municipalities and states. The
control, and sometimes treatment. Some    community and health providers have a strong
integration has started under the Bank-   awareness and ownership of the system.
financed Amazon Basin malaria and NE      Municipalities undertake primary data collection,
Endemic Diseases projects.                outbreak investigation, and disease control. States
have a coordinating role and provide technical
assistance to municipalities, notably with outbreak
investigation. A reduced core staff of about 3,000 at
the center provide a strong leadership in the
organization and contents of the national
surveillance system, analyze data, provide
feedback to states and municipalities on
epidemiological trends and achievements
compared to targets, and give technical support to
weaker states.
The laboratory network has a highly-      The laboratory network has been rehabilitated and
qualified staff, but the equipment is     equipped. It is properly linked with the national
becoming obsolete, and needs upgrading.   surveillance system. There is good coordination
Laboratories have access to telephone     between the federal, state, and municipal levels.
and fax, but very few of them have access  Training programs have strengthened the staff's
to the Internet. There is a lack of       biosafety awareness and practices.



coordination between central, state, and
municipal laboratories. The staff do not
receive clear guidance as to the type of
surveillance information to be collected.
There are deficiencies in biosafety.
The FNS staff is loyal and dedicated.       The staff in states and municipalities have broader
Researchers and physicians have             skills, are more analytical and practical, and
scientific and clinical competence. A large  establish a better link between knowledge and
proportion of the staff has a strong field  operations. The staff at the central level have taken
experience.                                  on their normative and supervisory role. Most staff
are maintaining their skills through regular training
responsive to local needs and new information
technology.
A centralized budget finances FNS staff     The financing system is decentralized as
and operational expenses.                   municipalities receive financing for disease
Decentralization has begun through          surveillance and control under the SUS', directly
financing agreements with municipalities.   related to production performance. Municipalities
Under these agreements, FNS staff have      and states have started to recruit their own staff for
started to be transferred to municipalities.  disease surveillance to replace those under
contract with the FNS who have retired.
Public relation with the press is poor.     Better public relations allow more objective
News reports in the media portray disease   information of the public and a more constructive
outbreaks as a failure of the health         portrayal of the MOH's role in disease prevention
system.                                     and control. It also starts to influence the population
on lifestyle changes. More work remains to be done
as part of the media is still critical.
Coordination with neighboring countries is   Brazil has significantly increased its technical
just starting.                               cooperation and exchange of experience with
neighboring countries in the response to outbreaks
of international significance. Border laboratories
have become an important instrument to that effect.
There is limited evaluation of the           Rigorous evaluation of the system has started,
performance of the system.                  using objective factors such as capacity of the
system to monitor each health event taking into
consideration sensitivity2 and specificity3, the
efficiency, representativeness, timeliness, and
flexibility of the system, the feedback provided, the
level of training of the personnel, the use of data for
decision-making, and the speed of response to
outbreaks.
'the SUS is Brazil's Unified Health System
2 sensitivity is the proportion of persons with a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance
system
3specificity is the proportion of persons without a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance
system



Annex lb
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
MOH statistics
Improve the health of the                                                            Sustainable and
population by reducing mortality                                                     adequate national
and morbidity                                                                        disease surveillance
__________________________       __________________  _  tand   control system
Program Purpose:               End-of-Program Indicators (by
2004)
To improve and strengthen the   The scope of the surveillance  *  National and FNS
national surveillance system  system is not limited to clinical   policy documents
(NSS) to contribute to reduce    interventions but includes the  *   Project supervision
morbidity and mortality from  monitoring of risk factors, notifiable  mission
selected diseases             and chronic conditions, injuries and  mission
control actions.
The population surveillance system
is decentralized, all
municipalities undertake primary
data collection, and large ones
also carry out outbreak
investigation
and disease control.
All the laboratory network has
_  been rehabilitated, is well equipped



and is linked by computer systems.
Operational staff has increased
their competence
Evaluation of the appropriateness
of the system is
periodically undertaken.
At least half of the municipalities
have directly benefited from project
funding
VIGISUS Phase 1(1999-2001)
Viable framework for the new
national surveillance system is
developed and tested
VIGISUS Phase 11(2002-2003)
National surveillance system
established in all states and at
least 300 municipalities
VIGISUS Phase III (2003-2004)
National surveillance system
fully operational in a
decentralized manner



Project Development                                                             (Objective to Goal)
Objectives
VIGISUS 1 (1999-2001)
Viable framework for the new
national surveillance system is
developed and tested
Outputs:                                                                        (Outputs to Objective)
Strengthened policy and     VIGISUS program strategy and   National policy and
strategic planing.          national plan approved         strategy document
Management of NSS           All states have had key personnel  PIU reports,
strengthened                trained as follows:            procurement records,
*  Field Epidemiology Training    and supervision
Program: 10 graduates      missions
*  Basic Principles of Outbreak
Investigation: 100 graduates
*  Data for Decision-Making: 25
graduates
*  Public Health Fellowships: 55
fellowships awarded
*  Laboratory Biosafety: 400
superior-level and 200
medium-level
*  Laboratory Reporting: 75
trainers trained
*  Management Training: 60
public health professionals and
administrators trained



Surveillance information system   Data definition and coding  SINAN data
and telecommunications       standards defined
improve
New SINAN system in place and
operational in 75 percent of public
health laboratories
States and municipalities    All states and one-third of     SUS data
receive financial resources and   municipalities have Intemet access
support services to sustain and
improve NSS                  Proper mechanism in place to
transfer funds for disease
surveillance under the SUS
Public heaflth laboratories  Nine national reference         Project supervision
network under rehabilitation,    laboratories rehabilitated and
construction, and being      equipped; and nine border
provided with adequate       laboratories constructed and
equipment                    equipped
A coordination mechanism is    A liaison council constituted by  Minutes of the
operating that ensures the   representatives of the public and    meetings of state
participation of private doctors   private sectors operates in at least  council
10 states.
Disease control strengthened in  60 high-level staff trained in
the Amazon region (in the 321    communicable disease control  Training and
municipalities included in the                               performance evaluation
project)                     400 community health agents
trained for disease control activities
300 health professionals trained to
act as local trainers for control of
.___   leishmaniosis (LTA and LV)



Vaccination coverage for hepatitis
B for population aged 0-15 years
old increased to at least 90 percent
The number of cases of
tuberculosis cured in the Amazon
Region would have increased by at
least 10 percent
At least 50 percent of budget spent
on non-insecticide vector control
methods (early diagnosis and
treatment)
700 indigenous community health
agents trained
Institutional capacity to deliver
health services to indigenous
populations improved
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to
components: (see Annex 2 for   component)                                        Outputs)
project description)
. Strengthening of the                                    *  Project reports
National Surveillance System   US$141 million             *  Financial          *  Timely availability
monitoring           of counterpart
- Strengthening of Disease                                *  Disbursement          funds
Control in Selected Areas  US$44 million                     reports            *  Appointment of
*  Audits               competent staff to
- Project Management       US$15 million                  *  Management and        coordinate project
financial reports    activities
*  Contracts



Narrative Summary         Ky^ Performace Indica'tors    Means 0o Verification C .pion'
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objectives
VIGISUS 11(2002-2003)
National surveillance system
established in all states and at
least 300 municipalities
Outputs:                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
Strengthened policy and     VIGISUS program strategy and    National policy and
strategic planing.          national plan under implementation  strategy documents
Management of NSS           All states have had key personnel   PIU reports,
strengthened                trained as follows:             procurement records,
*  Field Epidemiology Training    and supervision
Program: 20 graduates       missions
*  Basic Principles of Outbreak
Investigation: 100 graduates
*  Data for Decision-Making: 50
graduates
*  Public Health Fellowships: 55
fellowships awarded
*  Laboratory Biosafety: 600
superior-level and 300
medium-level
*  Laboratory Reporting: 150
trainers trained
*  Management Training: 120
public health professionals and
administrators trained



Surveillance information system   New SINAN system in place and    SINAN data
and telecommunications      operational in 85 percent of public
improve                     health laboratories
All states and 45 percent of
municipalities have Internet access
States and municipalities   Proper mechanism remains in    SUS data
receive financial resources and   place to transfer funds for disease
support services to sustain and  surveillance under the SUS
improve NSS
Public health laboratories  Twelve national reference       Project supervision
network under rehabilitation,    laboratories rehabilitated and
construction, and being     equipped; and 12 border
provided with adequate      laboratories constructed and
equipment                   equipped
A coordination mechanism is    A liaison council constituted by  Minutes of the
operating that ensures the  representatives of the public and    meetings of state
participation of private doctors   private sectors operates in at least  council
20 states.
Disease control strengthened in  90 high-level staff trained in  Training and
the Amazon region (in the 321   communicable disease control  performance evaluation
municipalities included in the
project)                    500 community health agents
trained for disease control activities
400 health professionals trained to
act as local trainers for control of
leishmaniosis (LTA and LV)
Vaccination coverage for hepatitis
B for population aged 0-15 years



old increased to at least 95 percent
The number of cases of
tuberculosis cured in the Amazon
Region would have increased by at
least 13 percent
At least 50 percent of budget
continues to be spent on non-
insecticide vector control methods
(early diagnosis and treatment)
1000 indigenous community health
agents trained
Institutional capacity to deliver
heaith services to indigenous
populations improved



Annex 2
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Detailed Project Description and Project Implementation Plan
Component I - Strengthening of National Surveillance System (US$141 million, 70.5
percent of project cost). This component, to be implemented nationally, includes: (i)
improvement of the data management telecommunications system; (ii) rehabilitation,
extension, and equipment of the laboratory network; (iii) rehabilitation and expansion of cold
storage facilities; (iv) rehabilitation and expansion of environmental surveillance facilities; (v)
training of municipal, state, and central FNS staff; and (vi) studies and research in
epidemiological surveillance.
Improvement of the Data Management Telecommunications System. This subcomponent
will: (i) provide micro-computers, printers, telephone access, and vehicles to municipalities;
(ii) develop and implement new modules for the public health information system; (iii) provide
technical assistance to help the states and municipalities resolve practical issues (such as
provision of hardware, software, and training) in implementing the improved and standardized
surveillance programs envisioned by VIGISUS; and (iv) improve the data telecommunications
system at the FNS central level. As regards activity (i), municipalities will present subprojects
in accordance with population-based eligibility criteria in the Operational Manual. They would
have to demonstrate their need for the equipment, and their capacity to maintain it.
Laboratory Network. This subcomponent will finance: (i) the upgrading of 12 existing
national reference laboratories to convert them from the BSL-2 to the BSL-3 category; (ii) the
construction of 12 border laboratories; and (iii) the upgrading and construction of about 50
zoonoses centers. Details on the Brazilian system of public health laboratories are provided in
Annex 10.
Cold Storage Facilities. This subcomponent will finance the rehabilitation, expansion, and
equipment of about 60 cold storage facilities to strengthen the distribution and storage of
vaccines and other perishable medical products.
Environmental Surveillance Facilities. This subcomponent will finance the rehabilitation and
equipment of regional entomology centers, and water, air, and soil quality laboratories.
Training. This subcomponent will train municipal, state, and central FNS staff in
epidemiology, laboratory reporting, laboratory biosafety, environmental surveillance, and
management. Details on the training program (curriculum description, target personnel,
provider, and costs) are provided in Annex 12.
Studies and research in Epidemiological Surveillance. This subcomponent will finance: (i)
studies on the development and implementation of health indicators; (ii) periodical population-



based health analyses; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of specific diseases; and (iv) publication
of epidemiological analyses, guides, and manuals.
Technical Assistance. This subcomponent will finance technical assistance to help
municipalities and states in subproject preparation, appraisal, and supervision, as well as
procurement.
Component II - Strengthening of Disease Control in Selected Areas (US$44 million, 22
percent of project cost). This component includes; (i) disease control in the Amazon Region;
and (ii) indigenous health. A significant participation of NGOs is expected.
Disease Control in the Amazon Region. This subcomponent, to be implemented in the nine
states of the Amazon Region, will finance: (i) the rehabilitation, expansion, and equipment of
public health laboratories and other health facilities in the Amazon region; (ii) boats and
vehicles; (iii) training of 540 community health agents, management training for about 50
public health officials, and training of 90 technicians in communicable disease surveillance and
control; (iv) antimalarial drugs and reagent kits for the diagnosis of hepatitis, leishmaniasis,
and malaria; and (v) technical assistance.
Indigenous Health. This subcomponent will finance: (i) the rehabilitation and equipment of
health centers, health posts, environmental health, and other health facilities adapted to the
indigenous culture; (ii) equipment (such as boats, engines, vehicles, and geographical
positioning systems - GPS); (iii) training of 1000 indigenous health agents; and (iv) technical
assistance.
Component III - Project Administration (US$15 million, 7.5 percent of project cost). This
component would help finance the administrative and operating costs of the PCU over a 3-year
period. This includes: (i) financing of PCU consultants; (ii) travel; (iii) training; (iv)
equipment; and (v) other administrative expenses (materials etc. ).
Project Design. The project is partly pre-designed and partly implemented on the basis of
subprojects presented by decentralized institutions. For the pre-designed part, this means that
an analysis of needs, a survey of existing infrastructure and equipment, and a skills analysis of
the disease surveillance and control staff, have led to a detailed definition of a core group of
activities that needed to be designed in a planned fashion so as to ensure a coherent and
coordinated effort to strengthen the data management telecommunications system, the network
of laboratories, and upgrade the skills of the staff. This represents about 40 percent of the
project cost.
The rest of the project (60 percent of the project cost) will come under the form of subprojects
to be presented by municipalities, states, NGOs, and other institutions. These subprojects
would represent the needs of these municipalities etc. to complement the pre-designed part. To
ensure that they fit within the overall framework, comply with the norms of the FNS, and are
properly targeted, subprojects will be prepared and evaluated according to eligibility and
evaluation criteria included in the Operational Manual, and presented in Annex 13. Funds are



targeted to states and municipalities using a transparent allocation formula based upon
population and incidence of disease.
The breakdown between the pre-designed activities and subprojects is presented in the
following project cost table



Project Cost (US$'000)
Pr-esge         Subprct       -    otal
Disease Surveillance System                 l
Computer network                    -            21175          21175
Laboratories                      7318            1325           8643
Cold Chain                          -            5000            5000
Environmental Surv. Facilities    7382           19000          26382
Training                          15152          37000          52152
Studies and Research             18950             -             18950
Technical Assistance'             8698             -             8698
Subtotal                        57500          83500          141000
(40%)          (60%)
Disease Control in Selected
Areas
Amazon
Laboratories and other infrast.     -            6100            6100
Training                          4204           11228           15432
Drugs and Pharm. Products           -            4572            4572
Technical Assistance2             4896                           4896
Subtotal                        9100           21900           31000
Indigenous Health
Infrastructure                    2014           4000            6014
Equipment                         1425            1600           3025
Training                          1461            1800           3261
Subtotal                        5600            7400           13000
Subtotal Disease Control        14700          29300           44000
(33%)          (67%)
Project Administration
Consultants3                     14147                           14147
Training                          346                             346
Equipment                         360                             360
Other Expenses                     147                            147
Subtotal                        15000             -            15000
Grand Total                     87200          112800         200000
I includes supervision
2 includes supervision
3 includes monitoring and evaluation



Implementation Plan. Please see next page.



Implementation Plan: VIGISUS
Components and Activities                                                                      Year 1                             Year 2                               Year 3
IJ F M A M J J A S O N D IJ F M A M J J A S O N D IJ F M A M J J A S O N D
Project Area I - Epidemiological Surveillance
Component I                                                                                                                         ' 4      4             ,,
....    ...  ...    ...  ...    ...    ...                                            .............
C om                                                    one ntI   1] .+>w   i,,,    ,,   i   ,,,, , ,,, , ,, i ,,,, i ...... i i t,,,i,,,,,i, i ...... - -~~~~~~.... ....    . ... .....  ...  1: ....  .... ... ..
Preliminary Meetings                                                                .       1                       IIII*                  III
Implementation of Integrated Projects                                                                            * t                                                         I TlT       l
Component 11
Com  onentil    E    *    S    S   i   i   E   *   .....  i  i  i  !  i  i i i i i - i i ..... | E i ,i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...................... ....... .... ...
Physical Repairs and Equipment Supply                                        .... . .                           'i                                   e    '    '
Techtnical Visits    i   .....              ...         .....    ................ ............
Architectural Consulting                                                                                                                                  -          U         .
Training in Applie Epidemiology
.......j; ; .ii;j,, .,   . iii   
Field Epidemiology Training Program                                             .  i          ~I~
Basic Principles of Outbreak Investigation i.l!i-EiL!...      
Data  for Decision  Making                                                         ;    !    'i    !  !  !    i  !  !    'i    !  .....................  ......  ....
Short CourseslWorkshops (Fellowships)      ....             j      .....  ......            i  ...... .....
Ot  ert    ining   ..   i  i   i  '    ........ ; i E X M i E ! | i . i i ; E ...... i.,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....     ...  ........  ...    ...     ...    ...    ...  .......    ...  ...   ..   ....
?       1     ?  .........   i.... ........  ..... ;..... g.... ..... ..... ....  ..... ...  ..... ....
OTheraiingoTring r
Laboratory ofwaeoftwareIIIIII,                                                                                                                              M h        hIIM
SINAN Softwmare                                                                       IIIIiiIi ii.j!i iIIIIIIggIIII   IT!!!!!!!!!!!
Development of Systems and Services                                                !        _
--F- --4--i--4-------  .---.--i-  .    i-4--4F -------i .....  i* - F---F--F--F.-.---i. 
Inf  emcation   Centers                                                            ....                         ........... . .....,.
Specific Problems  .....    i    t    .................. _ ...........................
Epidemiology                                                                                     -                   m 
Incenies f Epidemiolo   ican  Development
Studies Requested by FNS                                                           i     V
National Bidding: Epidemiology                                                    ij.       These actIvIites will occur throughout the duration of the proJect                          j
Institutional Research ...                                                               I i ..... 4.i
S         upport to emerging groups for teaching and research in epidemiology                  .....       . .....  . 
Seminars                                                                                   
Intemational Consulting             ...._________________.____.___.____.___.____._________________F_.......T.
National Consulting                                                                                                                       i i - i L i i i * 1 L I ! ..1............. t i L j E i   L L  L  - ...
Page 1



Implementation Plan: VIGISUS
Components and Activifies                                                                           1               Year 1                                      Year 2                                       Year 3
J F MA MJ J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N DIJ F M A M J J A S O N D
Project Area II: Environmental Surveillance
Component I                                .....-....i..                                                                                                                                                              
Preliminary Meetings                                                                                                -. t -,. ...... 
:  +  i  t   i  !                   :       S      i           .  .  W  r  >  v          ;  z  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i...   . ...
Implementation of Integrated Projects                                            *                                               .....                         .-.--                         -     --.Ifl.i.hh, 
Component If                                                                                                                                                                              ---- 4
.              .  .    ...  .......                    ..... . ..  ..........
Com    one ntil  .........  .  ..................... ...... - 1 - .......................... ..............................                                             |        .         ...
Conditional Risk Factors for the Transmission of Diseases
Drinking Water                                                                                                 These actlvMtles will take place throughout the duration of the project
Environmental Contamination
Air Quality
Soil Contamination
Natural Disasters and Accidents with dangerous substances                                                   ______t
Integrated Actions for Environmental Surveillance                                                    ...        *''                                                                           -----   *.-- ..   ,
Project Area Ill: Activities for Disease Control in the Amazon
Component I
Comp   nen   I   _   _   ___-   _   _  .............  i  i  i - i j ; E i i E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,j gi j,~~~~~ i;- .................. i i j j ..... i~~~~~~A i  i.... .... l
.                                                   *'" i--- '.---'--"i' -'    ii   ii i  i  i  . Li ......................................................................................_  , ii_.ii.i._................-.-----.._ _--i----
Preliminary Meetings                                                                                                                                                                    .  .......
Implementation of Integrated Projects
Component l                                                                                                                                                                                                        .... II.   .
......    ...........   ....    .....  ... ....    ....         ....  ..   ....  ...     ....    ...   ...   , . ...     ...,.  ,,,,, , , .....,i, .....i,,i , ,, 
1 Meetingsineach U.F                                                                                                       .  .  .  .  .  .
2 State Seminars                                                                                           _                                                                           . . i  ......
3 Regional Seminars..............................................
4 Meetings in the States
5 Communication Campaigns
6 Campaign Networks
7 Management Courses
8 Courses in Epidemiology and Disease Control                                                                                                                            ............. ...... .....
9 Capacity-Building and Supervision Activities. PACs
12 Acquisition of Software:SIG                                                                                                                                                                         r  r
13 Acquisition of Equipment: GIC                                           *-                             -     -        . t  . ........                                                           ................              ..........
14 Acquisition ofAnti-Malarals                                                                                        ....*...-                                                 . .
Program Area IV: Indigenous Health
Component I                                                                                                                        ......---'-----i . .,  -.. ....  . ,                                        .i.............
Preliminary Meetings                                                                                         ...t . ....                 t                            IIIIhi .            I. r.
Implementation                                                                                                  .                                                I                                     hIhIhIhIIIh.  IIIIE
P                                 .2  .....
Page 2



Implementation Plan: VIGISUS
Components and Activities                                                              Year 1                          Year 2                           Year 3
_____________________________JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND| FMAMJJASOND
Component 1I                                                                             - . . .                   .
..,,,,, .,, ,I g    i   ,  g g - Z ,,g .... ......
1.-    Training of indigenous health agents                                        .. t                 _                                         . r  _                         ..r
2.-    Reform and construction of Health Posts
3.-    Water supply and sanitation system
4.-    Construction and Rehabilitation of Indigenous Clinics                                                                             -
5.-    Infrastructure of Indigenous Organizations
6.-    Equipment
6.-    Equipment                              .....          ..    j    I,, y                 ............ @gli               ......         ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...  ....
7.-    Design and Construction of Inter-institutional Centers for Indigenous Health
B.-    Teacher Training for Centers for Indigenous Health                                                                                                             4    i 
9.-    Training of healthcare professionals in environrnental and epidemiological surveillance
b...., . 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........LLLiL
Page 3



Annex 3
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Estimated Project Cost
(US$ million)
Strengthening of the Disease      86.2             39.0            125.2
Surveillance System
Strengthening   of  Disease       19.7             7.0              26.7
Control in Selected Areas
PCU                               12.5             2.0              14.5
Total Baseline Costs              118.4            48.0            166.4
Physical Contingencies            15.4               -              15.4
Price Contingencies               18.2                              18.2
TotalProjet Cos



Annex 4
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Financial Summary
Calendar Year Ending December 31
(US$ million)
7r777777~~~~7  V   i ,A*)v  ; -X- " : -
Project Cost                                                    ___T_i_I
Investment Cost       40.0       70.0        70.0       20.0       200.0
Total               40.0        70.0       70.0       20.0       200.0
Financing Sources
Bank                  20.0       35.0        35.0       10.0       100.0
Government            20.0       35.0        35.0       10.0       100.0



Annex 5
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, version dated January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, and September 1997). Civil works for laboratories, cold storage, and
other health facilities costing between US$350,000 and US$5 million per contract will be procured
through NCB up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million. Civil works for contracts below
US$350,000 will be procured through three quotations (lump-sum fixed price contracts) up to an
aggregate amount of US$5 million. Equipment for laboratories, cold storage, and other health facilities
costing more than US$350,000 per contract will be procured through ICB up to an aggregate amount of
US$12.3 million. Equipment costing between US$100,000 and US$350,000 will be procured by NCB
up to an aggregate amount of US$48.4 million. For the procurement of project components under NCB
procedures, standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, will be used. Drugs and
pharmaceutical materials will be procured through the Panamerican Health Organization, using Bank
procurement guidelines. This is because the Borrower lacks the appropriate organization, resources, and
experience in the area of drugs and pharmaceutical products, especially in the area of control of quality
and validity period of drugs. In its contract with the Borrower, PAHO will include a training plan to
build local institutional capacity to that effect. Consultant services for firms would be selected
following the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1997). These services would be selected in accordance with Quality-
and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$17 million. Specialized
consultant services in disease and environmental surveillance and control may be contracted with the
Centers for Disease Control under sole-source contracting up to an aggregate amount of US$2 million.
Contract thresholds, modalities, and Bank financing ratios are indicated in Tables A, B, and C of
this Annex.
Disbursement
The PCU would present disbursement requests based on Statements of Expenditure for all
payments against (i) Civil Works contracts valued less than $350,000 except for the two first contracts
which require the Bank's prior review and full supporting documentation; (ii) Goods contracts valued
less than $100,000 except for the first two contracts which require the Bank's prior review and full
supporting documentation; (iii) contracts for consulting firms valued at less than $100,000, and (iv)
contracts for individual consultants valued at less than $50,000.
A Special Account for a total of $10,000,000 would be authorized for this project, with an initial
allocation of $2.5 million. Replenishments would be presented to the Bank on a monthly basis, along
with special account reconciliations.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)



Table A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(US$ million)
Civil Works                             10.0              5.0                          15.0
(5.0)           (2.5)                         (7.5)
Goods:              12.3              48.4             1.0                         61.7
Equipment             (6.2)            (24.1)           (0.5)                        (30.8)
Drugs and             4.6                                                             4.6
Pharm. Products          (2.3)                                                          (2.3)
Training                                               71.2                         71.2
(35.6)                       (35.6)
Consultants                             ~~~~~~~           ~     ~~~(23.7)  =(23.7)
Other                                                 0.2       _0.2
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank-financed
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
Other = Includes consultants and TA
lTotals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show allocations of Bank Loan proceeds
2 Not Bank-financed



Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services  QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS   CQ    Other   N.B.F.  Total (including.
Expenditure Category              l                                      contingencies)
A. Firms             17.0         l                      2.0                 19.0
B. Individuals                    T                     28.3                 28.3
Total              17.0         l                      30.3                 47.3
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contmats Subject to
Expenditure        . Contract Value       Procurement         Prior Review /
;  Ctegory        E >-(Thireshd)           Me tod         Estimated Total Value
__ - -:   ~  .; -   .   : -- -Subject to Prior Review
1. Civil Works
Above 5,000,000           ICB            Prior review for all
350,000-5,000,000            NCB          Prior review of first two
contracts every year
Less than 350,000         3 Quotations3       Ex-post review
2. Goods
Above 350,000                ICB            Prior review for all
100,000-350,000              NCB          Prior review of first two
contracts every year
Less than 100,000          Shopping4          Ex-post review
3. Training
Firms             Above $100,000            QCBS                  All
Less than $100,000        QCBS                  TORs
Individuals       Above $50,0001/         Individuals             All
Less than $50,000       Individuals            TORs
4. Consultants
Firns             Above $100,000            QCBS                  All
Less than $100,000        QCBS                  TORs
Individuals       Above $50,0001/         Individuals             All
Less than $50,000       Individuals            TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    60% (estimated)
1/ When justifiable; individual consultants will be contracted in accordance with Section
V of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
3 Lumpsum fixed price contracts
4 National and international



Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Subprojects                        66.0                   60% of the
amounts disbursed
Works                               5.5                      50%
Goods                               5.3                      50%
Consultant Services                 9.9                      25%
Training                           10.3                      50%
Unallocated                         3.0
I=_



Annex 6
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis of this project focuses on two issues: whether the surveillance component
(which accounts for 71% of project costs) is feasible and whether the project is sustainable. The
cost-effectiveness of disease control has been thoroughly analyzed in the context of previous
projects', and the findings of these studies were integrated into the design of the disease control
component of this project. These findings are summarized in section I below. Since this would
be the first project in the Bank with significant financing for a disease surveillance system, the
economic rationale of the surveillance component was examined more thoroughly2. The
discussion is presented in section 2 below. The question of the sustainability of the project also
needed to be examined in the light of the current changes in the financing strategy of basic health
care and surveillance activities. The findings are summarized in section 3. This annex concludes
with a summary discussion following OPR guidelines on economic analysis.
1.  DISEASE CONTROL IN THE AMAZON REGION
In this section, we summarize the main findings of the previous analyses that were carried out on
endemic disease control in the Northeast and Amazon regions and that were integrated into the
design of this project.
1.1 THE NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
The project, which closed on June 30, 1996, had the following objectives: reduce the prevalence
of Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis in the Northeast, and bring the intensity of
human infection to minimum levels where only epidemiological surveillance activities would be
needed to keep these diseases under control.
1.1.1 Chagas' disease
The strategies for control of Chagas' disease included interrupting transfusion transmissions and
eradicating the vector (Triatoma infestans). More specifically, the project financed the purchase
See especially ICRs for the Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project (July 1997), and the Amazon
Basin Malaria Control Project (May 1997).
2   For lack of time, the appraisal team has not been able to carry out a cost-effectiveness study of
surveillance for all the diseases and on a regional basis. Such an analysis, carried out early into the
project, would help towards defining cost-effective strategies for specific diseases and specific
regions.



of insecticides, trained field inspectors, created a serologic surveillance system based on 12
reference laboratories, controlled transmission via contaminated transfusions (including through
legislation), and left a network of well-equipped personal health services which provide care for
Chagas patients.
The project is estimated to have prevented about 12,500 cases of Chagas' disease and 3,800
deaths, which translates into about 72,900 DALYs saved. Given the US$23 million involved, the
project cost about U$$260 per DALY saved, which places it among the most cost-effective
health interventions.
1.1.2 Schistosomiasis
The strategy for the control of schistosomiasis included: (i) early diagnosis and treatment of
infected people; (ii) basic household sanitation; and (iii) information, education and
communication (IEC). The project installed laboratories, provided supplies and equipment and
trained local agents to perform diagnostic tests and refer patients for treatment in the network of
local health care services. In addition the project piloted the introduction of mass-treatment of
schistosomiasis in school health programs and in municipalities with a high incidence of disease.
The project also helped set up health promotion teams at the municipal level which carried out
significant amount of IEC activities. The project showed that it is very difficult to eliminate low-
level transmission with the traditional control approach. Disease eradication depends very much
on environmental and household sanitary conditions.
The project is estimated to have prevented at least 3,400 schistosomiasis deaths, which translates
into 67,000 DALYs saved. The interventions, at US$980 per DALY saved were moderately
cost-effective.
1.1.3 Leishmaniasis
The strategy focussed on establishing an adequate information system, on establishing
laboratories capable of diagnosing the disease, and on training doctors and other health care
personnel in the appropriate treatment of the disease. In the case of kala-azar, the project set up a
network of laboratories, provided equipment and supplies for controlling the sandflies,
established a network of municipal kennels equipped for diagnosing and eliminating infested
dogs, and established treatment protocols, trained doctors and other health care personnel in
treating the disease. Treatment of this form of the disease requires specialized medical expertise,
which most physicians did not have. Therefore, one of the main contributions of the project to
the reduction of the incidence of the disease was the establishment of treatment protocols for
kala-azar, training of medical personnel and the provision of an effective chemotherapeutic
agent.
The project is estimated to have prevented 770 cases of kala-azar, and avoided 11,300 deaths
which translates into 380,000 DALYs gained. The component cost about US$140 per DALY
saved, which places it among the most cost-effective public health programs.



1.2   THE AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
The project, which closed on June 30, 1996, tested two major changes to the traditional malaria
eradication paradigm. First the project began to target vector control activities to a number of
municipalities, and localities with highest malaria incidence, to control the spread of the disease,
as opposed to the traditional approach to making widespread use of insecticides to eradicate the
disease. After 1992, the projected tested a shift from the traditional focus on reducing malaria
incidence through vector control, to reducing severity of the disease through early diagnosis and
effective treatment of patients. Hospital and ambulatory centers were equipped and staff were
trained to aggressively
diagnose and treat malaria.
Between June 1988 and June 1996, the Malaria Control Program prevented 1.9 million new
malaria cases and averted 236,000 deaths, which translates into a total of 8.8 million DALYs
saved. As at cost-effectiveness of US$67 per DALY saved and US$ 260 per case averted, the
program falls into the category of high cost-effectiveness interventions.
2.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE
COMPONENT
2.1   COST-BENEFITANALYSIS
2.1.1  Introduction
The reinforcement of the surveillance system is expected to yield benefits of several kinds. The
analysis focuses on three of them: savings on hospital costs, productivity gains from lower
morbidity and productivity gains from averted mortality. Several other types of benefits would
also be produced by the project but have not been calculated because of the difficulties of
estimation. For example, a more efficient information flow would produce direct savings by
reducing duplications and simplifying procedures3. The project would also generate positive
externalities; the reduction of the incidence in malaria in the State of Amazonas, for example,
could enable the emergence of a tourism industry.
The computation of benefits is remains a controversial endeavor4. The present analysis makes
clear the hypotheses and parameters that were retained so that the reader can independently
gauge their conceptual and numerical validity. The cost-benefit analysis is followed by a risk
analysis that tests the robustness of the computed rates of return to changes in all the key
parameters. The surveillance system is expected to have an impact on the occurrence of all forty-
3  See Ostroff and Hamilton's "Review of the Brazilian Epidemiological Surveillance System," Nov.
1997.
4  For a discussion of the issue of valuation of life see, among others, Anne Mills.



one notifiable diseases. We limit the cost-benefit analysis here to seventeen of these for lack of
data. Given the difficulty of modeling the benefits associated with the surveillance system, and
the weak basis for some of the assumptions, the results of this simulation should be interpreted
with caution.
2.1.2 Benefits from hospital-days saved
The surveillance system will have an impact on the epidemiological pattern of infectious diseases
because it will increase the sensitivity5 of disease detection, quicken detection and shorten
response lags6, eventually leading to a lower number of cases requiring hospitalization. The
extent to which the reinforcement of the surveillance system will translate into hospital-days
saved is difficult to assess ex-ante. As a result we have made very conservative assumptions that
are based upon discussions with the Brazilian National Health Foundation and Bank health sector
specialists - summarized in table la below - with a view to reinforce the robustness of the results.
In most cases, the percentage decrease in hospital-days is estimated at 1 percent, and the highest
decrease is estimated at 10 percent.
5   Sensitivity is defined as the proportion of cases notified that are real occurrences of the disease.
6   For exanple, the project purports to reduce the time lag between collection to compilation at national
level from 24 months to 12 months for mortality data and from 3 month to I month for morbidity
data.



Table la: Expected savings on hospital costs
Diseases           Prevailing     Percentage   Hospitzn   Average   Hospital    Cost          Savings on
Number of      decrease     averted    hospitzn   averted    hospital-day  hospital costs
hospitzn/ year7 due to survei_                               (R$)8        (R$)
Measles            371            1.0%         4          4.6        17          29.36        501
Poliomyelitis/PFA    144          1.0%         1          13.1       19          27.48        518
Diphtheria         266            1.0%         3          7.6        20          26.02        526
Whooping Cough    917             1.0%         9          6.8        62          23.20        1,447
Tetanus            1,360          1.0%         14         12.6       171         54.14        9,278
Meningitis         28             1.0%         0          9.7        3           41.45        113
Neonatal Tetanus    17            1.0%         0          9.2        2           35.13        55
Hepatitis          16             1.0%         0          6.2        1           19.58        19
Cholera            17,714         10.0%        1,771      4.1       7,263        32.06        232,815
Rabies             61             10.0%        6          3.8        23          39.12        907
Leptospirosis      65             1.0%         1          8.0        5           28.80        150
Tuberculosis       16,187         10.0%        1,619      34.9       56,493      15.83        894,413
Hansen's disease    11,536        10.0%        1,154      77.5       89,404      15.92        1,423,139
Malaria            39             1.0%         0          4.3       2            19.18        32
Leishmaniasis      4              1.0%         0          14.9       1           14.15        8
Chagas             568            5.0%         28         8.5       241          76.00        18,346
Schistosomiasis    2              1.0%         0          9.2        0           21.26        4
Total              49,295                      4,610                 153,727  _               2,582,271
The surveillance system will have a varying impact upon hospitalizations according to a complex
of factors. In section 2.2, we check for the robustness of the rates of return calculations against
modifications in the two principal assumptions made above: the number of hospitalizations in the
absence of a surveillance system, and the percentage decrease in hospitalizations attributable to a
reinforced surveillance system. In addition, we suppose that the savings on hospital costs kick-in
slowly. We assume that only 20 percent of the potential savings materialize the first year of the
project, and then increase by 20 percent per annum from then on - meaning that the full savings
on hospital costs occur only from the fifth year onwards of the project life. Table lb summarizes
the base pattern of savings given this additional hypothesis:
Table lb: Pattern of savings on hospital costs
Year              Savings on hospital costs (R$)
1999                      516,454
2000                       1,032,908
2001                       1,549,363
2002                      2,065,817
2003                      2,582,271
2004                      2,582,271
2005                      2,582,271
2006                      2,582,271
2007                      2,582,271
2008                      2,582,271
2.1.3 Benefits from reduced morbidity
7    Calculated as the average number of hospitalizations for the period 1993-1997. Source: DATASUS
8    Source: DATASUS



The second set of benefits derives from the reduction in morbidity associated with earlier
detection and control of diseases.  This section focuses on the reductions in morbidity
attributable to seventeen of the principal notifiable diseases. Morbidity in the absence of
surveillance is taken to be that of the average over the period 1993-1996. This hypothesis calls
for some caution: if disease prevalence is unusually high during those years, then the hypothesis
may tend to over-estimate the impact of surveillance during subsequent years. In the case of
malaria, for example, using the average occurrence over the period 1993-1996 could lead to
overestimating the benefits of the surveillance system should the epidemic have subsequently
abated without reinforcement of surveillance activities. Conversely, in the case of measles,
taking the average for 1993-1996 as basis is likely to lead to underestimating the benefits of
surveillance.
Another reason for caution is that there is significant sub-notification of diseases - a phenomenon
that leads to underestimating the benefits of surveillance. The proposed reinforcement of the
surveillance system will increase disease reporting. Statistics that show an increase in morbidity
(the same applies for mortality9) will have to be read with extra care, as they do not distinguish
between real increases in morbidity and mortality and what is the outcome of better notification.
Project monitoring and impact evaluation indicators will be especially vulnerable to such
erroneous interpretations. The problem of an appropriate base for the estimation of morbidity
reductions is tackled in the risk analysis by utilizing a range of plausible values.
Morbidity is factored into the cost-benefit analysis through the reduction in its debilitating effect
on productivity. The number of days of work lost attributable to each disease was inferred from
literature and from hospitalization data and valued at minimum wage level'0. If indeed
communicable diseases disproportionately affect the poor working in the informal non-wage
sector, then the use of minimum wage surely overestimates the gains in productivity that are
attributable to reinforced surveillance.
9   Subnotification of deaths (through the Sistema de Informac6es de Mortalidade) is currently estimated
at 15%. The project aims to reduce this to proportion to 10% within three years. An estimated 60%
of morbidity cases are not notified through the Sistema de Informa,ces de Agravos de Notificacao.
The project aims to reduce this to 0% within three years.
10 Minimum wage is estimated at R$5.60 per day. One alternative is to use GNP per capita to value
productivity - which implies that diseases affect people indifferently of their income level. Valuing
the productivity loss at prevailing wage rates means that poor and rich people's lives are valued
differently, which poses a real ethical problem.



Table 2a: Estimated benefits subsequent to reduction in morbidity
Disease             Prevailing    Percentage     Cases averted Average days Disability     Averted
Number of   Decrease due   due to        lost per       weights'3     wage loss
cases/ yearl I to surveillance  surveillance   case12                 (R$)
Measles             5,495         1.0%           55            15            0.152         683
Poliomyelitis/PFA   0             1.0%           0             23,689        0.369         0
Diphtheria          223           1.0%           2             15            0.231         42
Whooping Cough      4,428         1.0%           44           29             0.25014       1,810
Tetanus             1,081         1.0%           11            15            0.640         566
Meningitis          29,819        1.0%           298          -29            0.616         30,036
Neonatal Tetanus    169            1.0%          2             0             0.640         0
Hepatitis           50,124        1.0%           501           62            0.209         36,402
Cholera             38,873        10.0%          3,887         155           0.350         114,287
Rabies              34            10.0%          3             157  0.500                  143
Leptospirosis       2,961         1.0%           30            10 Y         T.2-5-0        415
Tuberculosis        80,742         10.0%         8,074         548           0.294         7,278,116
Hansen's disease    33,898        10.0%          3,390         2,081         0.153         6,042,564
Malaria             527,677        1.0%          5,277         4             0.172         18,551
Leishmaniasis       35,879        1.0%           359           1,095         0.243         534,624
Chagas              10,00021      5.0%           500           12,301        0.350         12,054,490
Schistosomiasis     214,70122     1.0%           21,433          ,           0.005         6,041
Total               1,036,104   _j      __    44,008           39,930                     1 26,118,769
In section 1.2 below, we check for the robustness of our rates of return calculations against
modifications in the assumptions made above: the number of cases notified in the absence of a
surveillance system, and the percentage decrease in hospitalizations attributable to a reinforced
surveillance system. Once again, we suppose that 20 percent of the potential benefits from
reduced morbidity materialize cumulatively every year - so that the full benefits of reduced
I    Source: DATASUS, average 1993-1996.
12   Source: Global Health Statistics, Murray C.L., Lopez A.L., 1996. We used the estimates for the LAC
region.
13   Our Estimates.
14  Idem.
15  Idem.
16  Idem.
17  Idem.
s   Idem.
19 Idem.
20 Idem.
21  Idem.
22   Idem.
23  Idem.



morbidity occur only from the fifth year onwards. Table 2b summarizes the ensuing base pattern
of benefits.
Table 2b: Pattern of benefits from reduced morbidity
Year                 Productivity Gains (R$)
1999                     5,223,754
2000                     10,447,508
2001                     15,671,262
2002                     20,895,016
2003                     26,118,769
2004                     26,118,769
2005                     26,118,769
2006                     26,118,769
2007                     26,118,769
2008                     26,118,769
2.1.4 Benefits from reduced mortality
The third set of benefits that is factored in the analysis derives from the reduction in mortality
associated with earlier detection and control of diseases24. The incidence of diseases in the
absence of surveillance is taken to be that of the average for the period 1993-1995. The concern
expressed in section 2.1.3 applies here as well: if mortality is unusually high in that period, then
the hypothesis may tend to over-estimate the expected impact of surveillance. The sub-
notification of deaths, on the other hand, lends to an under-estimation of the benefits of the
surveillance system. There is no obvious solution to this problem save resorting to a sensitivity
analysis to generate a range of plausible values.
The number of years of productive life lost ascribable to each disease is calculated by finding the
average age of onset of the disease, and using mortality tables to find the life expectancy at onset
(see figure 1 below). The debatable assumption made here is that death occurs promptly after
onset.
24  Whether averted deaths should be counted as benefits is an unresolved issue. We chose to carry out
the cost-benefit analysis including the benefits ascribable to averted mortality.



Figure 1:      Life Expectancy in 199025
Life expectancy at different ages, 1990
c 60
g40
20
0
IL  )  U)    IL)   Ul)   U')  LO     LO
e'   cm   It   LO    0    r~-
age
25  Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, IBGE, 1996.



Table 3a: Estimated benefits subsequent to reduction in premature mortality
Diseases              Prevailing    Percentage     Deaths        Years of   Life-years Averted loss due
No. of deaths  Decrease due t  averted due    Productive         to premature
per year26    surveillance    to surveillanc  life after         mortality (R$)28
onset27
Measles                 11             1.0%          0                69          8        10,208
Poliomyelitis/PFA       0              1.0%          0                70          0        0
Diphtheria              20             1.0%          0                65          13       17,404
Whooping Cough          42             1.0%          0                70          29       39,320
Tetanus                 389            1.0%          4                66         255       342,551
Meningitis              2,593          1.0%          26               60        1,558      2,094,076
Neonatal Tetanus        66             1.0%          1                69          46       61,286
Hepatitis               803            1.0%          8                46         371       498,212
Cholera                 294            10.0%         29              462        1,341      1,801,899
Rabies                  16             10.0%         2               46-          73       98,063
Leptospirosis           347            1.0%          3               443         152       203,943
Tuberculosis            5,910          10.0%         591              39        23,114     31,065,229
Hansen's disease        219            10.0%         22               45         986       1,325,701
Malaria                 425            1.0%          4                46         193       259,944
Leishmaniasis           145            1.0%          1                64          93       125,045
Chagas                  5,588          5.0%          279              61        17,006     22,856,011
Schistosomiasis         594            1.0%          8               4632        371       364,057
Total                   17,462                       978                        45,508     61,162,948
To remain conservative we again suppose that 20 percent of the potential benefits from reduced
mortality materialize cumulatively every year - so that the full benefits of reduced mortality
occur only from the fifth year onwards. Table 3b summarizes the base pattern of benefits.
26   Source: DATASUS, average 1993-1995
27   Whether or not to discount years of productive life is yet another unresolved debate. Here we do not
discount them.
28   We encounter the same problem vis-a-vis the valuation of productive life as in section 2.1.3 above -
with as little consolation to offer for the necessarily erroneous valuation.
29   Our estimates.
30 Idem.
31 Idem.
32  Idem.



Table 3b: Pattern of benefits from reduced mortality
Year                 Productivity gains (R$)
1999                     12,232,590
2000                     24,465,179
2001                     36,697,769
2002                    48,930,359
2003                     61,162,948
2004                     61,162,948
2005                     61,162,948
2006                     61,162,948
2007                     61,162,948
2008                     61,162,948
2.1.5 Costs
The decision has been made that the project will be an Adaptable Program Lending (APL).
Table 4 shows the expected annual and cumulative disbursement.
Table 4: Expected capital expenditures disbursement profile
Brazil Fiscal Year          1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
Annual disbursement (%)     13.3    13.3    13.3    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    100.0
Cumulative disbursement (%)  13.3    26.6    40.0    55.0    70.0    85.0    100.0
The recurrent costs are calculated as representing 2 percent of the capital costs incurred during
the year. They are cumulative and perennial. In the section on risk analysis, we test the
robustness of the results against recurrent costs at 10 percent of capital costs.
2.1.6 Summary cost-benefit calculations
Table 5 below summarizes the costs and expected benefits from the project and shows the
resulting base estimates for the rates of return and for the NPV, utilizing a discount rate of 10
percent.



Table 5: Costs-benefits of reinforcing infectious disease surveillance (R$)
Year    Capital costs   Incremental   a Reduction  in  Benefits from  Benefits from  Net benefits
costs        costs          morbidity     mortality
1998      49,959,799    999,196                                                 (32,986,197)
1999      49,959,799    1,998,392     516,454        5,223,754    12,232,590    (16,012,595)
2000      49,959,799    2,997,588      1,032,908     10,447,508    24,465,179   961,007
2001      56,204,775    4,121,683      1,549,363     15,671,262    36,697,769    11,564,763
2002      56,204,775    5,245,779      2,065,817     20,895,016    48,930,359   28,413,435
2003      56,204,775    6,369,874      2,582,271     26,118,769    61,162,948   27,289,339
2004      56,204,775    7,493,970      2,582,271     26,118,769    61,162,948   26,165,244
2005      -             7,493,970      2,582,271     26,118,769    61,162,948   82,370,019
2006                    7,493,970      2,582,271     26,118,769    61,162,948   82,370,019
2007                    7,493,970      2,582,271     26,118,769    61,162,948   82,370,019
NPV=          R$116,989,779
IRR=          36%
Under the assumptions made explicit in the above sections, the project exhibits economic
internal rates of returns of 36 percent33. The combination of the public good nature of the
investment and the fact that it is expected to yield a reasonably high economic rate of return
makes a clear case for the project's desirability.
2.2    SENSITIVITY/RISK ANALYSIS
This section tests the robustness of the rates of return calculation to changes in all the parameters
retained in the base case. For the risk analysis, a Monte-Carlo technique is utilized which, in lieu
of a numerical value, ascribes a probability distribution to the various parameters to simulate
uncertainty - the output of the analysis is a confidence interval for the rates of return. Where
appropriate, we find the switching point - i.e. the value of the parameter at which the NPV
becomes positive.
2.2.1          Base hospitalizations, morbidity and mortality
By using the average number of hospitalizations, confirmed cases and deaths over the period
1993-1997 as the base against which we calculate the potential effects of the surveillance system,
we are grossly simplifying the problem of the counterfactual pattern of future hospitalizations,
morbidity and mortality. As shown in Annexes 1, 2 and 3, each disease has a very different
pattern34 of occurrence, and associated mortality and hospitalizations. However, we are in a
position to gauge whether using the period 1993-97 as basis for estimating the effects of
surveillance is a likely to result in an over- or an underestimation of the potential benefits, and
Rates of return above the 10 percent threshold do not, by themselves, indicate that the project should
be undertaken by the public sector. However, surveillance is clearly a public good and would be
underprovided were it left to the private sector.
34  Modeling these patterns from the underlying complex of determining factors is beyond the scope of
this analysis.



factor this into the sensitivity analysis. Since the morbidity, mortality and hospitalizations are
correlated to various degrees, we cannot simulate changes as if they were independent. The
following simulations utilize triangular distributions whose upper and lower bounds are specified
in table 6a, and correlation coefficients that are computed from past trends in hospitalizations,
mortality and morbidity, and that are summarized in table 6b.
Table 6a
(triangular distributions)                     Lower & upper bounds as % of base estimates
Measles                                             [-0%; +100%]
Poliomyelitis/PFA                                   [-0%; +100%] n
Diphtheria                                          [-o%; +50%]
Whooping Cough                                      [-O%; +50%]
Tetanus                                             [-o%; +50%]
Meningitis                                          [-10%; +10%]
Neonatal Tetanus                                    [-10%; +20%]
Hepatitis                                           [-10%; +10%]
Cholera                                             [-0%; +200%]
Rabies                                                 10%; +10%]
Leptospirosis                                       [-10%; + 10%]
Tuberculosis                                        [-50%; +0%]
Hansen's disease                                    [-50%; +0%]
Malaria                                             [-10%; +10%]
Leishmaniasis                                       [-20%; +0%]
Chagas                                              [-50%; +50%]
Schistosomiasis                                     [-50%; +50%]
Table 6b
Correlation Coefficients
Morbidity-Mortality              Morbidity-Hospitalizations
Measles                                        0.7523                            0.9169
PoliomyelitislPFA                              0.8962                            -0.1286
Diphtheria                                     0.9931                            0.9853
Whooping Cough                                 0.9812                            0.7816
Tetanus                                        0.9569                            0.9892
Meningitis                                     -0.9002                           0.5153
Neonatal Tetanus                               0.9614                            0.8913
Hepatitis                                      0.8490                            0.6135
Cholera                                        0.9966                            0.9917
Rabies                                         0.9999                            0.4965
Leptospirosis                                  0.8149                            0.8474
Tuberculosis                                  -0.4270                            -0.1111
Hansen's disease                               -0.6013                           0.8686
Malaria                                        0.2881                            0.5400
Leishmnaniasis                                 0.5152                            0.8339
Chagas3I                                       0.5000                            0.5000
Schistosomiasis3J                              0.5000                            0.5000
35   We assumed a correlation coefficient of 0.5 in the absence of reliable data.
36  Idem.



Under the hypotheses described in tables 6a and 6b, the probability distribution of economic IRR
and the NPV are summarized in figures 2 and 3 below. They show that the rates of return remain
above the 1 0-percent benchmark even with even more conservative parameters.
Figure 2
Forecast: IRR
5,000 Trials             Frequency Chart                 6 Outliers
n24                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~122
a  m.                                                  915
-n
CD,
FRigure 3
Forecast: NPV
5,000 Trials            Frequency Chart               15 Outliers
0
.023-I   I-fll                                       11
Certainty is 90.00% from $53,416,667 to $117,083,333
2.2.2         Percentage hospitalizations, cases and deaths averted
We next test the robustness of the rates of return calculations against changes in the effects of
reinforcing the epidemiological and envirornmental surveillance systems on hospitalizations,
confirm5ed cases and deaths. Once again, because changes in occurrence are coyelated with



deaths and hospitalizations, we use the same simulation strategy as in section 2.2.1 above. Table
6b once again provides the correlation coefficients and table 6c the probability distributions.
Table 6c
(triangular distributions)    Lower bound            Base                  Upper bound
Measles                           0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Poliomyelitis/PFA                 0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Diphtheria                        0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Whooping Cough                    0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Tetanus                           0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Meningitis                        0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Neonatal Tetanus                  0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Hepatitis                         0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Cholera                           5.0%                  10.0%                 12.5%
Rabies                            5.0%                  10.0%                 12.5%
Leptospirosis                     0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Tuberculosis                      5.0%                  10.0%                 12.5%
Hansen's disease                  5.0%                  10.0%                 12.5%
Malaria                           0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Leishmaniasis                     0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Chagas                            2.5%                  5.0%                  7.5%
Schistosomiasis                   0.5%                  1.0%                  1.5%
Figure 4
Forecast: IRR
5,000 Trials                 Frequency Chart                       15 Outliers
.024                                                             - 120
.00
10.0%        21.3%         32.5%         43.8%         55.0%
Certainty is 90.00% from 18.3% to 45.5%



Figure 5
Forecast: NPV
5,000 Trials            Frequency Chart                 6 Outliers
.025- 126
.01~~~  -....-......-..  -.~~~~~~~.-*.    .  -~~..-.-........  ... ......94.5
i  013 ......... .... ........    ........  .       ...........- . 63
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$0      $50,000,000  $100,000,000 $150,00000 $200,000,000
Certainty is 90.00% from $34,933,333 to $150,833,333
Figures 4 and 5 indicate that the project remains feasible even if the impact of the surveillance
system upon mortality, morbidity and hospitalizations were to be only minimal (between 0.5 and
5 percent decrease).
2.2.3         Recurrent Costs
We compute the rates of return and the net present value assuming that the incremental recurrent
costs represent 10% of annual capital disbursements, and are cumulative and perennial. This
drives the rates of return close to the 10% benchmark, but still slightly above it. The recurrent
costs associated with the project clearly need to be monitored since they can offset the benefits of
the project.
Table 6d
Recurrent costs             I        IRR                           NPV (R$ million) 
10% of capital costs                 11.3%                         5.4
2.2.4         Valuing Productivity
Finally, we check for the effect of valuing productivity at minimum wage on our results. When
productivity is valued at 75 percent of minimum wage, the rates of return still exceed 10 percent.
It takes valuing productivity at 70 percent of minimum wage for the rate of return to reach the 10
percent threshold. In other words, for the project to fail the economic feasibility test, the
productivity of all the people affected by the project must be on average less than 70 percent of
minimum wage, which is a rather extreme assumption.
Table 6e
Productivity                         IRR                           NPV (R$ million)
75% of minimum wage                  14.1%                         19.1
70% of minimum wage                  10.0%                         0.35



3.    SUSTAINABILITY
In this section we discuss the financial implications of the project for the major stakeholders.
Ideally, we would proceed to discuss sustainability by estimating the incremental recurrent costs
associated with the project, and gauge whether these can be absorbed by the Ministry of Health
and other financing entities (States, Municipalities) with reasonable ease. The ease with which
the costs can be absorbed would itself hinge upon the relative priority of public spending in the
health sector, and upon the prospects of public finances, which in turn depend upon the growth. of
the economy, and the revenue-collection strategy adopted by the govermnent. It is perhaps
possible to carry out that kind of exercise in a meaningful manner for the short run (2-3 years).
In the long run, it is very difficult to come up with any guarantee of sustainability - the best one
can achieve is to gauge the degree of integration of the project activities within the financial
fabric of the sector.
3.1    THE A VAILABILITY OF FUNDS AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL
The health sector financing picture, in the absence of major shocks in the next few years, should
look like table 7 below. CAS projections indicate an nominal increase in central government
spending (including transfers) from R$131 billion in 1998 to R$139 billion in 2000,
corresponding to a slight decrease relative to GDP, from 14.0 to 13.1 percent. Assuming that the
proportion of total expenditures that is allocated to the health sector stays at its current level of
15.7 percent, then the nominal budget of the Ministry of Health should increase to 21.8 billion by
year 2000. This assumption hinges on one crucial factor: that the government rapidly finds a
viable alternative to the tax on financial transactions (Contribuicao Provisioria sobre
Movimentacao Financeira - CPMF). This tax was earmarked to finance activities in the health
sector, and is supposed to be provisional. In 1997, it accounted for a full 29 percent of resources
( or R$5.38 billion) allocated to the health sector. It was extended for 1998, and its contribution
to health sector financing is expected to go up to 34 percent in 1998 (or $6.7 billion). As an
alternative to the CPMF mechanism, Brazilian Congress is in the process of examining a tax
reform bill that would earmark 30 percent of revenues for the health sector. There is an
indication that this reform would also affect the states and municipalities, so that they will have
to earmark a similar percentage of their revenues for spending in the health sector.
Table 7
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
GDP (R$ million)             753,823    838,231    891,134    967,174    1,062,766
Growth rate (lO)           3.1%      3.0%       0.5%        3.0%       3.5%
Central Govt. Expend. (R$ million)  111,565    120,503  124,445  131,600  139,295
as % of GDP                14.8%     14.4%      14.0%       13.6%      13.1%
MOH budget (R$ million)      14,377     18,804     19,502     20,623     21,829
as % of Central Gov. Expend    12.9%  15.6%     15.7%       15.7%      15.7%
The project is expected to generate incremental recurrent costs that will have to be paid by the
treasuries at federal, state and municipal levels. Since about 60 percent of the project funds will
finance different subprojects from states and municipalities, it is difficult to estimate the
consequent recurrent cost burden. We here estimate recurrent costs to be between 2 and 10



percent of the capital costs incurred in any particular year, and to be perennial and cumulative.
Table 8 summarizes two scenarios, A and B, with incremental recurrent costs representing
respectively 2 and 10 percent of capital costs.
Table 8
(R$ million)                1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004
Capital costs               34    34    34    39    39    39    39
Incremental recurrent costs - A   0.69   1.38   2.07   2.84   3.62   4.39   5.17
Incremental recurrent costs - B   3.45   6.89   10.34  14.22  18.09  21.97  25.85
The final step of this exercise is to confront the resources likely to be made available to the
health sector with the financing requirements following project implementation. This is shown
in table 9 for the two scenarios A and B for the period 1998-2000.
Table 9
_ _ _ __   1998   1999         2000
Expected additional resources
allocated to the health sector at central level    697  1,818      3,024
Project incremental recurrent costs - A  0.7          1.4          2.1
Project incremental recurrent costs - B  3.5          6.9          10.3
Margin of maneuver- A                    697          1,818        3,024
Margin of maneuver - B                   694          1,812        3,014
It is quite clear from the above table that the additional resources likely to be made available to
the health sector at central level are several orders of magnitude higher than the additional
resources that will be needed to cover project-related recurrent costs. Even the incremental
recurrent costs at their expected peak of R$25.85 million from the seventh year of the project life
onwards, does not seem to be a matter of great financial concern.
3.2 TRANSFERS FROM THE FEDERAL TO THE MUNICIPAL LEVEL
Two issues could theoretically tarnish the picture. The first is the fact that the above discussion
does not take into consideration the level of government that will have to incur the project-related
incremental recurrent costs. One could argue that while the federal level might be able to fund
the activities generated by the project, these might actually have to be incurred by financially-
constrained municipalities or states. We would then have to carry out an analysis of the ability-
to-pay of the states and of the municipalities. However, the activities proposed within this
project are the constitutional obligation of the federal government and will be funded from
federal sources, although the implementing agency can be states or municipalities. In theory
therefore the project should not increase the financial burden on the treasuries of states and
municipalities as long as the federal level effectively transfers the funds.



The second source of potential problem is the lack of integration of the financing of surveillance
activities into the mainstream financing and procedural fabric of the health system, making them
more dependent on and vulnerable to political vicissitudes. Recent changes in the health
financing mechanism, however, indicate that surveillance activities are given high priority and
that their financing is going to be ensured.
The major change in the financing system that is currently occurring is the implementation of the
Piso da Atenqdo Basica (PAB) - which is a system of financial transfers from the National
Health Fund to the Municipal and State37 Health Funds covering basic health services. The new
system is a departure from the former payment-for-procedures which in effect tended to
discriminate against basic services in favor of "better-paying" tertiary care. The PAB is an
attempt to create a financial mechanism to match the constitutional obligation of the Federal
government to provide these basic services.
The PAB is made up of one fixed and one variable part. The fixed part consists of a R$10 per-
capita transfers of funds to the municipalities and covers such items as basic care, basic dentistry,
family health, vaccination, community health education, pre-natal care, family planning, basic
surgery, nutrition education, etc. The budget proposed for 1998 for the fixed part of the PAB is
of the order of R$1.7 billion. The variable part of the PAB is specifically intended to give an
incentive boost to sanitary, epidemiological and environmental surveillance, basic
pharmaceutical care, family health, nutrition programs, etc. The transfers to municipalities and
states for epidemiological and environmental surveillance will be the primary source of funds for
VIGISUS-related activities. The 1998 budget for sanitary surveillance has already been set at
R$42 million. The amount to be allocated for epidemiological and environmental surveillance,
on the other hand, will be determined by the end of July. The first indications are that an amount
of R$4. 16 million would be budgeted for 1998 for epidemiological surveillance activities; there
is, as of April 1998, no indication of the proposed budget for environmental surveillance. The
financial sustainability of the project will ultimately be determined by the actual budget
transferred under the PAB, but it is already encouraging to see that funds will be made available
explicitly for epidemiological and environmental activities.
37  The transfer of funds will transit through the State only for those municipalities that have yet to
graduate to gestdo plena or the full management of their funds.



Additional Elements of Analysis with reference to
OPR Guidelines on Economic Analysis
(a)   What is the objective of the project?
The objectives are: (a) to reinforce, streamline and increase the efficiency of the existing
system of disease surveillance; (b) to bring down the prevalence of endemic diseases in
the Amazon Region; (c) to improve the health status of the indigenous population.
(b)   What will happen if the project is undertaken?
The expected project outcomes are: (a) a cost-efficient disease surveillance system that
detects epidemics and triggers responses early on; (b) lower endemic disease prevalence
in the Amazon Region; (c) better health outcomes in the indigenous population.
(c)   What will happen if the project is not undertaken?
The benefits from previous disease control projects could be annihilated if re-emergence
of disease is not detected quickly. The economic burden due to endemic diseases in the
Amazon Region would remain very substantial. The health issues relative to the
indigenous population would remain unresolved.
(d)   Is the project the best alternative?
The project has several first-best characteristics: (a) surveillance is a public good which
left to market forces would be underprovided; (b) the control of endemic diseases yields
positive externalities: a pure market approach would lead to sub-optimal supply and
demand; (c) there is no private sector solution to indigenous health concerns; and (d)
endemic diseases disproportionately affect the poor, so that the project is equity-
improving.
(e)   Are the project components separable?
Yes. They are (a) an endemic disease control component in the Amazon Region; (b) a
national surveillance system; (c) an indigenous health component.
(f)   If so, is each component justified?
Yes. They accomplish important public health functions in three distinct areas.
(g)   Who are the winners and losers?
No losers. Winners: the Brazilian population; the indigenous population; the inhabitants
of the Amazon Region; the poor.



(h)   What is the project's fiscal impact?
The project will create an additional recurrent burden of about R$26 million per year on
the Federal budget. No immediate substantial burden on State and Municipal treasuries.
(i)   Is the project financially sustainable?
Yes. The Government is expected to find a viable alternative to the CPMF (tax on
financial transactions). The Brazilian Congress is currently examining a tax reform bill
that would earmark 30 percent of revenues to the health sector. The recent introduction
by the MOH of the Piso da Atencao Basica (PAB), a system of financial transfers from
the federal level to the state and municipal health funds, indicates the government's
strong commitment to public health, including epidemiological and environmental health
surveillance.
(j)   Is this a risky project?
There are medium risks associated with the project: (a) the changes in the surveillance
system can become process-oriented (i.e. the focus is on the diseases notification system
per se), and not result-oriented (i.e. to increase timeliness of response and sensitivity of
reporting); (b) should the Government not find a plausible alternative to the CPMF, the
burden of the incremental recurrent costs would be put upon States and Municipalities.
Those States and Municipalities that are financially strapped might not be able to finance
the recurrent costs.
(k)   What are the techniques for assessing whether the project is worthwhile?
The disease control component will borrow from previous approaches that use well-
established health protocols and that have proved cost-effective and successful in Brazil
and in other public health programs worldwide. The surveillance component has been
analyzed and shown to exhibit economic rates of return between 11 and 43 percent under
conservative assumptions.



4.    BIBLIOGRAPHY
Akhavan D., "Cost-effectiveness analysis of malaria control and treatment in the Brazilian
Amazon: lessons in strategy", Final report submitted to OED, World Bank, August 1997.
Arredondo A., Lejeune L.Y., de Izaca E., Cost of diseases in Brazil: breast cancer, enteritis,
cardiac valve disease and bronchopneumonia," Rev. Sauide Pu'blica, Vol. 29, No. 5, 1995, pp.
349-354.
Choi K., Thacker S.B., "An evaluation of influenza mortality surveillance, 1962-1979, American
Journal of Epidemiology, Vol. 113, No. 3, 1981, pp. 227-235.
Dean A.G., West D.J., Weir W.M., "Measuring loss of life, health, and income due to disease
and injury," Public Health Reports, Vol. 97, No. 1, 1982, pp. 38-47.
Drumond M.F., Stoddart G.L., "Principles of economic evaluation of health programmes", Rapp.
trimest. statist. sanit. mond., Vol. 38, 1985, pp. 355-367.
Graitcer P.L., Burton A.H., "The epidemiologic surveillance project: a computer-based system
for disease surveillance," American Journal of Preventive Medicine, Vol. 3, No. 3, 1987, pp.
123-127.
Hinds W.M., Skaggs J.W., Bergeisen G.H., "Benefit-cost analysis of active surveillance of
primary care physicians for hepatitis A", American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 75, No. 2.,
1985, pp. 176-177.
Marier R., "The reporting of communicable diseases," American Journal of Epidemiology, Vol.
105, No. X, 1977, pp. 5 87-590.
Mills A., "Economic evaluation of health programmes: application of the principles in
developing countries", Rapp. trimest. statist. sanit. mond., Vol. 38, 1985, pp. 368-382.
Murray C.J.L., "Quantifying the burden of disease: the technical basis for disability-adjusted life
years", Bulletin of the World Health Organization, Vol. 72, No. 3, 1994, pp. 429-445.
Murray C.J.L., Kreuser J., Whang W., "Cost-effectiveness analysis and policy choices: investing
in health systems," Bulletin of the World Health Organization, Vol. 72, No. 4, 1994, pp. 663-
674.
Ostroff S., Hamilton D., "Review of the Brazilian Epidemiologic Surveillance System, Final
report of CDC mission, Nov. 1997.
Thacker S.B., Choi K., Brachman P.S., "The surveillance of infectious diseases," JAMA, Vol.
249, No. 9, 1983, pp. 1181-1185.



Thacker S.B., Redmond S., Rothenberg R.B., Spitz S.B., Choi K, & White M.C., "A controlled
trial of disease surveillance strategies", American Journal of Preventive Medicine, Vol. 2, No. 6,
1986, pp. 345-350.
Thacker S.B., Parrish R.G., Trowbridge F.L. & Surveillance Coordination Group, "A method for
evaluating systems of epidemiological surveillance, " World Health Statistical Quarterly, No. 41,
1988, pp. 11-18.
Vogt R.L., LaRue D., Klaucke D., Jillson D.A., "Comparison of an active and passive
surveillance system of primary care providers for hepatitis, measles, rubella, and salmonellosis in
Vermont," American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 73, No. 7, 1983, pp. 795-797.



Annex 6.1:   Hospitalizations by Disease
Cholera                                            Poliomyelitis
50,000                                               1,400
1,200
400001                                               1.000
30,000                                                S 8o00 -1
20,000                                                6 600
1                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~400 -
10,000                                                200
U'Wt  0  )Q    0    0)                               riO riO riO d
oo co)c) coco0) 0) 0)0)0D00)0)0) 
Meningitis                                       Hansen's Disease
35,000                                               15,000
30,000 
25,000 -                                             10,000
20,000                                                5
15,000   l    l.                                                                               .
10,000                    /                             0
<9oi~~~~~~ ~  69ofi  9o   9s  9 92,>;;<,l  al      n0i0figE
5,000 6
Tuberculosis                                            Rabies
20,000                                               120
15,000                                               100
10,000 -                                              60
5,000                                               -40
1   ,        I     I     , , , 9 9 9999               O    g     9       9    9920
Diphtheria, Whooping Cough & Tetanus                          Neonatal Tetanus
5,000                                                80
4,000-                                               50 i
3,040 40
30
2,000                                                20 
1,000 -10
N41  Cbl b" 4P   S



Leptospirose                                       Vlral Hepatitis
5,000                                              25,000
4,000                                              20,000
3,000                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~15,000
2,000                                               10,000
5,000 -
1,000                                                        _     _     _     _     _      _
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997              ,00 10           qb   .e Ik
Measles                                             Malaria
14,000                                             60,000
12000 ooo      .    .    . .50,000   .
10'000                                             40,000                                \
84000                                             30,000       _
Leishmanilasis                                         Dengue
6,000                                               2500
5,000                                               2000
4,000                                               1500
3,000                                              10,000
21000                                               2500 -
1,000                                                    _  _____ _____99___  __ ____  _ ___
___    ___  ___   ___  ___  ___   ___  _                        .0 I    01



Annex 6.2: Mortality by Disease
Cholera                                            Tuberculosis
500                                                   8,ooo
400                                                   8,000
3001                                                  4,000|
1001                                                  2,0001
Viral Hepatitis                                           Rabies
1,000                                                 200
800                                                  150
400                                                  100-
200 ___________________                                     50                01, 
LaeismniasDisMeaseletsioes
400
200                                                  20
200 -4,000
150                          ....---...3,000 -
100                                                 , , 2,000 -  ,   c-  _c,c
50   9OK      9Ob    9O   s99   699  6995 8            9S9      9OD6N 1,000
q~~~~q;b~~~~~~~%~~~~  ~~q



Neonatal Tetanus                            Diphthena, Whooping Cough &
Tetanus
800                                                                               +oDitt
60      72,000                                                          l     ~Coqhe
1,5000
200                                                 500s                            D^
Acute Poliomyelitis                                   Meningitis
400                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,00
4,00
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-100                                             1,000
CO____________'A__I__________                    0, 1Zj,   *i. *o.   
,q   c   N.),   f,       , .'bl                      , ,l ,P ,P ,bI  ,q  I       ,,
Malaria
1,500
1,000
500



19W ~    ~       ~       ~       98 
1980~~~~~~~~~~1801W18
1982                                       1982                                       1982                                       1982
1984                                                            1984                                        198498
1986 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~18
1961986                                                                               1986
1988                                       1988 4-                                    1988                                       1988
1990                               1990                                       19W 1W990 
192                   1992N                                                           1990                                       1992
1994                                       1994                                       1994                                       1994
1996                                       1996                                       1996                                       1996
19W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.J
19W                            ~~~~~~198                                   1980
1982498
1986    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1921984
1986                                                                                  19844                                                                     t-
1988                                                                                                                                 9
1988                                       19018618
1990  1                                                                                                                         a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18
19W                                                            m           1986 C992                       ,                                          '
1992                                       1                                          i4  !  9~88                                 1988
1994                           rn                                                                                                                                -
IL    1996                                                                                                                  w
0                                        ~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~1990  w1990
1996
1992                           -1992
p                  ~~~~~~~1996                                  1996
0     0                                       m



Leptospirods
6000                                                                                            Meases
400                                                                  1400 0    _       _        _       ___
120000
3000                                                                 100000,
1000                                                                  6000.
0.                                                                 4000
20000
0
Malaria
Tetanus
600000D
50ODO             A o-                                                 so
40000DO.                                                              3000
30000W -                                                              2500
200000                                                                2000.            _                             UT UMno Ac2dermt
100ODO                                                                15  00                                        T6tu,o Neonata
0  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _1000
O   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .               500  ,
Meningits
Tuberculods
30000
20000                          /0000.
100DO
5400DO
20                                                                 2000
0     g     i     |     |     g     g     ffi    |                   O    i,,,,    I  I I  I I  I  I I  I I  I
PollomyoltlsWPFA
1200
1000
400
200 -ISI1  ,
Human Rabies 
150fx                            
100                 --   
50 ..
I                                              f   



Annex 7
Brazil - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Control of Endemic Diseases in the Amazon Region
VIGISUS will provide technical, human and material support to help expand the
surveillance and control of endemic diseases in the Amazon Region. This is justified
because of (i) the high incidence of endemic diseases; (ii)the large size of the
geographical extension of the region; (iii) the limited development of its health services
infrastructure; and (iv) the effect of frequent population migrations on disease incidence
in an environment which is ecologically propitious for disease transmission.
Five diseases -- malaria, hepatitis B, tuberculosis, leprosy, and leishmaniosis (both
American and Visceral) -- will be targeted by the VIGISUS program. Their selection is
based on: (i) their epidemic potential; (ii) their high case-fatality rate; and (iii) the
availability of low cost control measures.
Definitions. An endemic disease is a disease which is habitually present (frequent) within
a specified area and/or population group, over time. An epidemic is an unexpected
increase of the presence (frequency) of a disease within a specified area/population,
during a given period of time. An emerging disease is a disease whose incidence in
humans has significantly increased within a specified area/population, over the past two
decades. A re-emerging disease is a disease that has reappeared after a significant decline
in its incidence, within a specified area/population group, over a long period of time.
Malaria
Malaria is caused by the infection of any of the four species of Plasmodium which infect
humans. These are P. falciparum, P. Vivax, P. malariae and P. Ovale. All circulate in the
Americas, except the last one. Infection is commonly transmitted by the bite of a female
Anopheles mosquito, which in most species bite at dusk and during the early evening
hours.
Despite considerable efforts to control malaria, it is still the most common disease in the
tropics. It threatens about 40 percent of the world's population, undermining the health
and welfare of families, endangering the survival of children, debilitating the active
population and straining both countries' and people's scarce resources by excessive
public health costs, low productivity and impaired growth. Despite Brazil's successful
efforts to curb the incidence of the disease, there were still 400,000 cases in 1996. The
great majority of those are concentrated in Amazon Region.



Contemporary approach to malaria control. The goal of most countries where malaria is
endemic is to prevent mortality and reduce morbidity and social and economic losses
through the improvement and strengthening of national capabilities. The four elements of
control are: (i) disease management through early diagnosis and prompt treatment; (ii)
implementation of selective and sustainable preventive measures, including vector
control; (iii) malaria mapping and disease surveillance to permit a selective approach, to
identify epidemic risk, and to monitor program progress; and (iv) strengthening of local
capacities in basic and applied research to permit regular assessment of malaria situation
in the country.
Activities to achieve quality control measures. The main activities are: (i) human
resources development and management; (ii) adequate pharmaceuticals policy to assure
supply of diagnostic and treatment services as well insecticide spraying;(iii) effective
information systems; (iv) promotion and development of operational research; (v)
effective managerial capability and logistical support and; (vi) social participation and
intersectoral and community interaction.
Specific Strategies for stratified areas of risk. In high risk areas, the strategy consists of:
(i) expansion of the diagnosis and treatment capability, in remote health posts and
antimalarials supply; (ii) prevention of transmission through protective and preventive
measures for individuals, families and communities; and (iii) motivation and involvement
of the population at risk in the decision-making process at the local level.
Moderate and low risk areas. In moderate and low-risk areas, the strategy consists of: (i)
assuring that all health service units are capable of early diagnosis and treatment of all
malaria cases; (ii) reducing and eliminating vector breeding sites by means of
environmental sanitation by community action; (iii) undertaking selective vector control;
and (iv) providing social education and health promotion for the affected communities.
In areas of frontier development, such as the Amazon, traditional control activities are
extremely difficult, and case management, i.e. early diagnosis and immediate treatment,
becomes the priority. It has proven to be a cost-effective intervention for reducing the
burden of malaria and is now considered the center-piece of any malaria control strategy.
The aim is to ensure access to health services in order to eliminate death from malaria and
to reduce the severity and duration of illness associated with it.
Vector control still has an important role, but it is now based on the epidemiological
stratification by municipalities and by community, according to levels of risk of malaria
transmission should the common practice.
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis in the World. The magnitude of the global tuberculosis (TB) epidemic is
staggering -- its reemergence led WHO to declare a Global Health Emergency in 1993.
With an estimated 3 million deaths each year, it is the most deadly communicable



disease, although it is preventable and curable. Tuberculosis afflicts all age groups and
populations in all regions -- although most affected are persons in their productive adult
years. Ninety five percent of the global TB burden is shouldered by developing nations.
Without treatment, 50 percent of persons ill with the disease will die within 2-5 years.
TB kills more girls and women worldwide than all maternal causes.
TB is caused by the mycobacterium M. Tuberculosis, which in most cases attacks the
lungs. Infection is transmitted from persons with active pulmonary disease to other
persons usually via coughing and sneezing. One infectious case is likely to transmit the
infection to 10-15 persons, usually close contacts, within one year alone. Over one third
of the world's population is infected by M Tuberculosis. Only 10 percent of infected
persons will go on to develop active and debilitating disease. The figure is far higher in
persons whose immune systems are compromised. HIV+ persons are over 30 percent
more likely than their HIV- counterparts to develop disease once infected. TB is the
principal cause of death arnong HIV-infected persons in Africa and will likely become so
in Asia and high TB-prevalence areas of Latin America and Europe as the HIV/AIDS
epidemic becomes more generalized. 50-80 percent of cases of active disease occur
during the first two years after infection, but disease can develop decades after initial
infection. The Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine is recommended for all newborns
to serious forms of tuberculosis in children, but has shown little efficacy is preventing
transmission and infectious disease. In TB control, treatment of infectious cases is the
most effective prevention tool.
TB symptoms are varied, but principally consist of productive chronic cough, weight
loss, fever, and night sweats. Microscopic examination of TB bacilli in sputum is the
most important diagnostic tool. Additional tools such as sputum culture and X-ray are
utilized in detecting less infectious cases. In moderate and high TB prevalence countries,
sputum-smear positive cases represent over 60 percent of the TB burden. Sputum-smear
negative pulmonary cases are less infectious but still pose a public health threat. Extra-
pulmonary cases represent 10-20 percent of the burden.
Treatment of detected cases consists of 6-8 months of therapy with 4-6 drugs (isoniazid,
rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, streptomycin, thiacetazone). This treatment can be
provided on an ambulatory basis within primary health services or in the community.
The treatment is over 98 percent effective in persons not harboring drug-resistant disease
-- and leads to the swift elimination of infection. The critical challenge is to ensure that
patients complete the long treatment although symptoms disappear within several weeks.
Retreatment regimens are generally of 8 months duration. However, for persons
prescribed insufficient drug regimens or who take them inconsistently or fail to complete,
drug resistance can develop. This poses a significant worldwide threat to TB control and
to patient survival -- as treatment for multi-drug resistant disease is prohibitively
expensive in most countries and is less efficacious. Direct-observation of treatment by a
health worker or volunteer has proven highly effective in increasing smear-conversion
and treatment completion.



Less than 60 percent of tuberculosis cases are detected and treated worldwide each year --
of those treated most do not receive treatment to cure -- although this situation is
beginning to change. WHO now recommends worldwide application of a proven cost-
effective public health strategy, DOTS (Directly-observed Treatment Short-course) to
control the disease. It consists of political commitment to a national control program,
case detection principally through smear microscopy of persons presenting at health
services, standardized and directly-observed treatment for infectious cases, a secure
system of drug supply, and a recording and reporting system which documents patient
progress and program effectiveness.
Nearly 100 countries have adopted the strategy, and within each Region there are
countries achieving treatment success rates over 80 percent and rapidly improving case
detection.
Cost-effectiveness studies in high-prevalence countries have shown that the DOTS
strategy is among the most cost-effective health interventions available: costing $20-25
per death averted when provided on an amnbulatory basis -- or US$ 1-4 per Disability-
adjusted Life Year saved. In middle-income countries, these costs will increase
principally due to greater labor costs but remain among the most cost-effective
interventions available.
Tuberculosis in Brazil. Tuberculosis is a major public health threat in Brazil. In 19951,
91,013 new tuberculosis cases were notified (58.6/100,000). The smear-positive case rate
(infectious cases) is higher in the Amazon Region than in any other region, but 39 percent
of all cases are reported by Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Reported incidence has surged
after a declining trend in the 1980s. Registered TB deaths have also increased with 5,977
deaths registered in 1994. The Ministry of Health and WHO/PAHO estimate that true
incidence is approximately 120,000, signifying 25 percent under-reporting. The
HI V/AIDS epidemic is estimated to have increased tuberculosis incidence by 10 percent a
year. Other factors, including economic factors and obstacles in public health service
delivery may also contribute to rising incidence.
Brazil has a long history of tuberculosis control and research during this century. It was
among the first countries in Latin America to adopt rifampicin-based short-course
chemotherapy in the 1970s. Smear-microscopy is the predominant diagnostic tool
although still too many patients are diagnosed without smear examination, and too few
health centers are pursuing case detection and treatment. The network of laboratories
performing these exams and ensuring quality control urgently requires strengthening.
This will be undertaken under the VIGISUS project.
Treatment is ambulatory and drug supplies have been secured by the Ministry of Health
for all detected cases. Direct observation of treatrnent (DOT) is not pursued except in a
few local services. DOT is recommended by WHO and other international agencies as a
' fnal data not yet available for 1996



cost-effective treatment to improve cure rates and thereby reduce disease transmission
and mortality. The reported treatment completion/cure rate in Brazil of approx. 70
percent (for cases detected in 1995) is well below the year 2000 global target of 85
percent, and below many neighboring countries (Bolivia, Chile, Peru, Uruguay,
Venezuela). Drug-resistant disease is limited, as documented by a recent national anti-
TB drug resistance survey.  This is likely attributable to the use of fixed-dose
combination antibiotics.
States and municipalities have long played the central role in case detection and
treatment, and are now receiving funds, via contracts with the MOH, to pursue an
emergency plan for intensified TB control activities in priority municipalities including
surveillance, training and supervision. Additional funds will be provided under the
VIGISUS project. In 1998, the MOH will pursue a new plan to demonstrate innovative
practices to increase the number of health centers, posts and community health workers in
case detection and in directly-observed treatment in the states of the Center-West This
work should help demonstrate the feasibility of improving TB control rapidly in Brazil
and the utility of simple treatment and lab registers in improving reporting and local
analysis of service quality.
It will be the first time in Brazil that tuberculosis control will be significantly supported
by Bank financing.
Project Objectives. The project objectives are to: (i) develop technical capability of local
health services to identify, detect, diagnose and supervise the treatment of tuberculosis
patients; (ii) implement case-finding programming at all levels of the health services
facilities; (iii) identify at least 90 percent of existing hidden prevalent cases of
tuberculosis; (iv) ensure the complete treatment of at least 85 percent of all detected cases
of tuberculosis-infected individuals; and (v) develop a health promotion program to
gather political, economic and community support for the tuberculosis program.
Activities to be developed. The project will help: (i) rebuild the capacity of the public
health laboratory system to diagnose tuberculosis; (ii) train community health workers to
improve the quality and efficiency of the tuberculosis control activities; (iii) review and
improve establishment of priorities at the municipal level of Amazon Region; and (iv)
implement the supervised treatment to high risk groups.
Hepatitis B
Hepatitis B is a viral infection caused by a DNA virus, VHB, which is estimated to have a
human circulation based on 300 million carriers world-wide, two billion people infected
and 1-2 million deaths per year.
Clinical symptoms. Around two-thirds of the cases do not show symptoms at adult age or
look like a flu syndrome. The disease is transmitted at acute stage, with or without
symptoms. Around 90 percent are cured, one percent die at the acute phase, and the



difference become chronic carriers. Some of the carriers do not have symptoms, others
evolve to the chronic stage. All of the carriers can transmit the disease, which can also to
evolve to cirrhosis or cancer. More than 80 percent of primitive liver cancers are related
with VHB that, after tobacco, is the most important human carcinogen.
In Brazil, hepatitis B prevalence varies greatly from region to region. The western part of
the Northern region has prevalence rates which are very high, ranging from 5.1 to 16.7
percent of the general population. By 1991, it was estimated that somewhere between
300,000 to 500,000 HBV carriers were circulating in the Amazon Region of Brazil. The
incidence rate for acute hepatitis in the Amazon ranges from 65.7 to 131.1 per 100,000
population. Recently, the treatment of this disease and its consequences have been costing
around US$31 million to the SUS per year. In 1990, despite Brazil's 7.4 percent of deaths
efforts in the state of Amazonas were attributed to hepatitis-related causes, exceeding by
far the proportion for malaria (3.3 percent) which used to be the most important disease in
the Amazon Region.
Treatment. There is no specific treatment. At an acute phase support treatment should be
provided and at a chronic stage, the alfa interferon helps strengthen the immunity system.
Prevention. In countries with high endemicity, universal immunization should be
provided to all newborns. In countries with moderate or low endemicity, immunization
should be provided to high risk groups (such as health professionals, homosexuals, sexual
workers, immunodepressed, drug users and mental disorders patients). Universal
immunization for newborns and or adolescents should also be provided.
Prevention after virus contact includes: (i) blood testing; (ii) direct administration of
IgHB as soon as possible, never after 48 hours; and (iii) a first dose of the vaccine (the
total immunization process will be based on results of blood tests).
Activities to be developed by the project. The project will help: (i) develop and launch a
large scale immunization program for hepatitis B vaccine; (ii) finance all three
(management/program operation/health education) human resources programs; (iii) train
mid level managers technical personnel and health workers, applied epidemiology; and
(iv) undertake a mass media campaign for immunization acceptability.
Leprosy (Hansen's Disease)
One of the oldest diseases known to humankind, leprosy is an infectious disease caused
by Mycobacterium leprae. The host response to this infectious agent depends on the
cellular immune mechanism. The clinical spectrum of leprosy varies from a single benign
hypopigmented skin patch that may heal spontaneously to widespread damage to nerves,
bones, eyes, muscles, and kidneys. The onset of leprosy is usually gradual, and the first
signs may not be apparent for quite some time after infection. The average incubation
period is estimated to be two to four years. Patients rarely die of leprosy. The mode of
transmission is not known with certainty. Two widely-accepted modes are direct skin-to-



skin contact and droplet dispersion, but there is still no clear-cut evidence to support their
role. As no specific primary preventive measure has been devised, the main strategy must
be early diagnosis and adequate and regular treatment.
The Amazon Region accounts for 35 percent of the total cases of Hansen's disease in
Brazil. i.e. three times the national prevalence rate. Historical and cultural aspects of the
wild colonization of the Amazon Region are the main causes for this high prevalence of
the disease. In the Amazonas state, the prevalence is 31,16/100,000 inhabitants. However,
there are states such as Amapa, Roraima and Tocantins with a low disease coverage rate
The case management strategy includes: (i) treatment of leprosy with multidrug regimens
(rifampicin, dapsone, and clofazimine, doses depending if paucibacillary or multibacillary
leprosy); (ii) treatment of complications of leprosy (nerve damage, ulcers); (iii)
reconstructive surgery; and (iv) psychological therapy and rehabilitation. Early diagnosis
is crucial, thus early case-finding activity must be promoted by leprosy control program.
Passive case finding is greatly improved by increasing accessibility of health care and
health education. Active case finding usually involves screening of school children,
contact surveillance, and mass population screening activities. Because often control
programs employ paramedical workers for leprosy diagnosis at the village level, simple
diagnostic criteria are needed. Specific diagnosis reduces waste in drugs. Two types of
delivery are in-house treatment and stationary clinic treatment. In-house treatment results
in high coverage, but is very costly, especially when supervised, because treatment with
rifampicin and clofazimin must be given at least once a month. Because of the social
stigma attached to leprosy, primary health care workers are often not highly motivated to
work with leprosy patients. Thus training of primary health care workers is important.
Project Specific Objectives. The project objectives are to: (i) decrease the percentage of
cases not reported; (ii) increase the effectiveness of the treatment; and (iii) improve the
technical and management training of all professionals working on this disease.
Activities to be developed. The project will help: (i) train health professionals about
recognition of diagnosis and treatment; (ii) improve coverage and quality of diagnostic
and treatment services; (iii) promote and develop operational research; (iv) develop a
monitoring system for all patients under treatment; and (v) promote social participation
and intersectoral and community interaction.
Leishmaniosis.
Leishmaniosis, a dreadful protozoal2 disease, is transmitted through the biting of infected
sand flies (phlebotomies). Main reservoirs include dogs and rodents. The main
manifestations are ulcerating lesions which may be single or multiple, involving the
whole skin and mucocutaneous3 tissues (cutaneous leishmaniosis - LTA). Visceral
2minute animals, often parasites of man and animals
involving both typical skin and mucous membrane



involvement, especially of the liver and the spleen, if untreated, is usually fatal (visceral
leishmaniosis or Kala-azar).
Both forms of the disease exist in vast areas of Brazil, and in all the Northeast Region. In
the last decade 27,855 new cases of LTA were reported in Brazil, from which 60 percent
were in Amazon Region. Para, Roraima, Maranhao, and Tocantins were considered
priority states to conduct LV control activities.
Activities to be developed. The project will help: (i) develop human resources; (ii) assure
an adequate supply of diagnostic and treatment services; (iii) improve the information
system so as to devise control strategies based on risk by specific geographical area; (iv)
develop operational research; (v) undertake health promotion activities; (vi) increase
periodic screening of dogs; and (vii) improve insecticides spraying.



Annex 8
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Organization and Legal Framework of the FNS
Legal History. The Brazilian epidemiological surveillance system is more than 20 years
old. It was created by law 6259 of October 1975 that gave the power to the Ministry of
Health to organize an epidemiological surveillance system, a national immunization
program, and establish norms relative to compulsory notification of diseases. In May
1976, Portaria (ministerial resolution) 161 created the Superintendence of Public Health
Campaigns (SUCAM), a semi-autonomous agency, in charge of disease surveillance and
control. In August 1976, decree 78.231 provided the operating principles of the
epidemiological surveillance and control system, defining four hierarchical levels: (i) the
federal level; (ii) the regional level (groups of states); (iii) the state level; and (iv) the
health unit (i.e. the epidemiological surveillance unit).
The federal role is defined as that of: (i) establishing norms; (ii) supervising execution by
lower levels; (iii) analyzing and disseminating epidemiological surveillance data to be
used for disease control; and (iv) providing technical assistance to lower levels. As one
goes down from the federal to the local level, the function of execution increases, while
that of supervision decreases. Two observations can be made. First, these roles were well
defined in the law and are valid today as can be seen in Annex 9. The problem that
occurred over the years is that SUCAM, and later the FNS, increasingly took on an
executive function which would have better been left to the local levels. Second, there is
no mention of the role of municipalities in the 1975 law and in the 1976 decree. That
would come twelve years later in the 1988 Constitution that states that all public health
services are to be provided by the municipalities with the technical and financial help of
the federal government and the states.
On April 16, 1991, Decree 100 created the National Health Foundation (FNS), a public
foundation linked to the Ministry of Health (MOH). It took over SUCAM's functions.
Organizational Structure. The present organizational structure of the FNS is shown at
the end of this annex. Disease surveillance is performed by the CENEPI (National Center
for Epidemiology) and disease control is conducted by the DEOPE (Operations
Department). CENEPI includes a unit that coordinates the national epidemiological
surveillance system, and one that is in charge of the national system of public health
laboratories (COLAB). The DEOPE comprises several units responsible for the control of
vector-borne diseases such as malaria, Chagas, dengue, leishmaniasis, and others; for the
provision of health care to Indian communities; and for sanitation. The FNS has offices in
each of the 26 states and in the Federal District, which are responsible for the
implementation of surveillance and control activities at the state and municipal levels.



As of April 1997, the FNS had a staff of 42, 415. Most of the staff (i.e. about 98 percent)
are located in the field and report to the Regional Coordinating Offices (Coordenav5es
Regionais), while 900 work in Brasilia. The great majority of the professionals (about
33,000) are assigned to the control of vector-borne diseases (e.g. malaria in the Amazon
region, schistosomiosis and dengue in the Northeast, Chagas disease in the West Central
region). About 400 professionals provide health care to the Indian communities, and
about 200 are assigned to the Institute Evandro Chagas, a research facility focusing on the
study of tropical diseases prevalent in the Amazon Region, and the Primate Center.
Performance of the FNS. The FNS (as its predecessor, SUCAM) has a positive track
record. It has created and implemented a disease surveillance and control system and has
had significant success in the prevention and control of disease transmission. It has been
characterized by the strong loyalty and dedication of its staff, and its remarkable field
experience and work discipline. It has been successful in implementing two Bank-
financed projects: (i) the Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project (loan of US$99 million);
and (ii) the Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project (loan of US$109 million). The
Implementation Completion Report of the Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project states
that: "with better-trained health care providers and a more efficient management structure
in place, future health operations in Brazil should be implemented with fewer obstacles
and also more quickly." This is certainly a positive track record; and yet the government
has started to reform the FNS. Why is that?
Reasons for Reforming the FNS. The decentralization of the FNS is part of the
restructuring of the MOH, which is itself part of a broader reform whereby the
Government, through the Ministry of Administration and State Reform (MARE), has
undertaken to restructure public institutions and make them more efficient. A technical
group (Grupo Tecnico de Restruturaqdo e Qualidade) composed of representatives of the
MARE, the MOH, and the University of Sao Paulo is helping the MOH implement a
Program of Restructuring and Efficiency of the MOH. The plan for the decentralization
of the FNS is laid out in an October 1997 MOH document entitled Fundavao Nacional
da Saude - 0 Ministerio da Sauide em movimento de transformaado (FNS - The Ministry
of Health in transformation). The main reason ifor decentralizing the FNS is that, in
principle, health services (in this particular case, disease surveillance, prevention, and
control) may be provided more efficiently by the local level which is in direct contact
with the needs of the population. Over the years, the FNS has taken too much of an
executive role, whereas it should be a normative and supervising agency. Its staff has
become too large and is difficult to manage. It owns buildings and facilities that would be
better managed at the state and municipal level. As a result the government has already
started to decentralize: (i) staff, (ii) facilities; and (iii) financing.
Decentralization of Staff. The staff of the FNS working in the Coordenaqtoes Regionais
is being transferred to municipalities (and states) through agreements between the FNS
and the respective municipality. The FNS will continue paying the staff, thus avoiding an
immediate fiscal burden for the municipality. Upon retirement, the staff will not be
replaced by the FNS, and it would then be the responsibility of the municipality to hire a



replacement. This strategy which has already started to be implemented. This transfer
will be gradual and is expected to take about 7-10 years. It is a prudent strategy which
does not burden the municipalities financially, and which allows them to gradually
strengthen their institutional capacity. At the end of this process, it is expected that the
FNS staff would be reduced to about 3,000, responsible for the financing, regulation,
monitoring and supervision of the disease surveillance and control system implemented
by the states. The FNS would also retain the direct management of catastrophic
outbreaks, and the provision of health to indigenous communities, as the latter is a federal
responsibility under the Constitution.
Decentralization of Facilities. The FNS used to own 823 health facilities (health posts,
health centers, and unidades mistas, which are small regional hospitals with 10-20 beds
each). Of these it has already transferred 53 percent to municipalities and plans to transfer
the rest over the next few years. The FNS still owns facilities in 246 municipalities,
which represents less than 5 percent of all municipalities in Brazil. Before each transfer,
the FNS assesses the receiving municipality's capacity to operate and maintain the
facility. Some other facilities and departments have also been transferred during 1996 and
1997. These include the Manaus Nursing School (transferred to the Federal University of
the Amazon state), and the DATASUS, which processes all the country's hospital
discharge and ambulatory consultation forms used for payment of health services
(transferred to the MOH).
Decentralization of Financing. To accompany the transfer of responsibility to the
municipalities, the federal government has designed a financial transfer system under the
Norma Operativa Basica (Basic Operational Norm) No. 96. This norm has created a table
of prices to be paid to municipalities for each surveillance or control procedure
undertaken. For example, the collection of blood from a domestic or stray animal for the
diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis is worth US$0.03; the control of the Aedes aegypti
(the vector mosquito for dengue) is worth US$4.00 per insecticide application. Under this
system, disease surveillance and control actions will be financed through the normal SUS
system, just like the rest of health procedures. Municipalities will bill the MOH for each
procedure and will be paid up to a monthly ceiling. During 1998, the MOH plans to
transfer US$1.7 billion for basic health care, including epidemiological and
environmental surveillance.
Legal Framework of Decentralization. The fundamental principles of decentralization
were instituted by the Constitution (article 198) and by law 8080 of September 19, 1990.
The legal instruments to implement decentralization consists in agreements (Termos de
Convenio) between the FNS and municipalities. As mentioned earlier, specific
agreements for the transfer of health facilities and staff have already been entered into
between the FNS and a number of municipalities. Agreements will also be developed for
the transfer of Coordenag6es Regionais to the states.
Legal Status of FNS. There are three scenarios regarding the future of the legal status of
the FNS. The first is that the FNS would maintain its present status of Foundation. It is a



possible, but unlikely scenario. The second scenario is a radical one that would involve
the closure of the FNS. Should that happen, the field staff would be transferred to
municipalities and states as is already contemplated under whichever scenario, and the
central staff would be transferred to the MOH. The functions of regulation, monitoring,
and supervision carried out by the FNS central staff today are essential in any system and
would have to continue to be carried out, whatever the legal figure. Finally, the third
scenario is the transformation of the FNS into an "Executive Agency". In that case, it
would achieve greater administrative and financial autonomy, and would enter into
management contracts with the MOH linking financing with expected results. In March
1998, the third scenario appeared to be the likeliest, but no decision is likely to be taken
during the present election year. That does not affect the processing of the proposed
VIGISUS project as there is clear consensus in the government and the MOH on the
overall decentralization strategy and on the roles of the federal, state, and municipal
levels regarding epidemiological surveillance and control.



Annex 9
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
The Brazilian Epidemiological Surveillance System
Definition. An epidemiological surveillance system is a system that collects,
analyzes, and disseminates information and recommendations to help prevent and
control public health epidemics and problems. Sources of data for epiderniological
surveillance generally include:
* compulsory notification of cases
* diagnoses from doctors
*   death certificates
*   laboratory results
*   blood bank registers
* investigations of cases and epidemics
* location of vectors and reservoirs
*   use of biological products (e.g. drugs, vaccines, insecticides)
*   newspaper articles
The Brazilian System. The Brazilian disease surveillance system' is designed to
operate in a similar fashion to that of the United States. There is a list of nationally
notifiable conditions which are all infectious diseases; states and municipalities may
choose to supplement the list of conditions based on local needs.  Disease
notifications are made to municipal health departments by physicians, hospitals, or
laboratories. Many municipalities have devised their own notification mechanisms
(i.e. cards, telephone, etc.). The municipalities have primary responsibility for
completing case notification cards, investigating reported cases and completing case
investigation forms, and investigating and controlling disease outbreaks. The
municipalities may also collate and analyze surveillance data.
Municipalities forward case notifications/investigation forms to the state health
department. Some states use regional offices which act as a layer between the
municipality and the central state surveillance unit. In these instances surveillance
data are submitted to the regional unit, which then may collate the data and forward
to the central state unit. These regional units may function as a resource to the
municipalities. The state health department collates and analyzes the data, and may
1 This annex is based upon a report prepared by Steve Ostroff and Douglas Hamilton of the Centers for
Disease Control after a mission to Brazil in November 1997



perforn analytic epidemiological studies. The states collate the data and then
forwards it to the appropriate national agency.
There are three principal national health data collection systems which work
through these channels2. These are:
(i) Live birth data - known as SINASC
(ii) Notifiable disease data - known as SINAN; and
(iii) Mortality data - known as SIM
Each system has standardized forms (death certificates, birth certificates, and
disease notification forms) which have been incorporated into computer-based
systems. Most of the state health departments use the SIM and SINASC systems,
although some have not yet fully implemented them. SIM and SINASC data are
submitted to DATASUS in Rio de Janeiro; SINAN data go to CENEPI in Brasilia.
Very few jurisdictions are able to transmit data electronically. Municipalities send
data to the regional or state health department by paper forms or on computer disks.
Most states send data to the national agencies on computer disks. SINAN contains
standardized investigation forms for each of the 41 nationally reportable diseases'.
These data are all eventually submitted to the national level. The data for each of
these diseases is submitted to the SINAN coordinator in Brasilia, but the states are
also required to submit the data separately to each of the 41 programs that have
responsibility to manage the disease.
There are additional data systems managed by FNS. These systems include hospital
discharge databases (SIH/SUS) and ambulatory care databases (SIA/SUS). These
are primarily designed for reimbursement purposes to the municipalities, but have
been viewed as supplemental surveillance data sources; substantial energy has gone
into looking at them for such purposes.
There are between 5,000-6,000 municipalities in Brazil. They vary in size from
several thousand persons to the major population centers of Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo. They also vary greatly in their data collection, disease investigation, and
outbreak response capacity, and in trained personnel.  Due to these factors,
municipalities may of necessity cede some of these responsibilities to their regional
2 in addition, two other systems (SIH-SUS and SIA-SUS) provide data on hospital discharges and
ambulatory care, respectively.
3 The World Health Organization (WHO) proposes two criteria for the inclusion of a disease in the
surveillance list: (i) the existence of an active programn to control the disease, if possible with
established objectives in terms of incidence and prevalence; and (ii) the assurance that the notification
of a case or an epidemic will result in investigations to find out the cause



or state counterparts. The states vary in size from less than 300,000 persons to more
than 34 million and also have considerable differences in capacity.
Access to laboratory diagnostics is highly variable in Brazil. In some areas, most
notifiable disease case reports are based on clinical impression or non-specific
laboratory findings, such as gram stains of cerebrospinal fluid for meningitis cases.
Major municipalities may have access to more sophisticated laboratory diagnostics.
But even in the major population centers, the bulk of diagnostic work in municipal
and state public health laboratories is for clinical purposes (i.e. clinical chemistries,
blood counts, urinalysis) and not for reference or public health diagnoses. Despite
this, many state public health laboratories are able to diagnose diseases such as
dengue, perform food-borne pathogen subtyping, isolate M tuberculosis, and
perform antimicrobial susceptibility. These laboratories may also forward materials
to the national reference laboratories when necessary. The national labs also
perform quality control and provide diagnostic reagents to the state and municipal
facilities. The Brazilian system of public health laboratories is described in Annex
10.
There is currently no national system for recording laboratory findings similar to the
role of SINAN in disease reporting. The laboratories at the various layers of
government either have developed their own computer systems, or they continue to
record results by hand. Computer systems currently in use are incompatible with
the SINAN system, and laboratory data must be manually reentered for
incorporation into SINAN.
Outbreak investigation and initiation of control measures require special expertise.
The municipalities have primary responsibility in this area, but may draw upon
resources from other levels of the system when* necessary. Municipalities
questioned about their experience with outbreak response during visits to a number
of locations showed highly-variable levels of satisfaction with regard to state
support. Similar sentiments were expressed by states with respect to the national
level.
Health facilities produce summary reports of collected data. These reports are often
very detailed, but in many instances lack critical information to properly interpret
the findings (i.e. population data, maps, etc). It is not clear who the target audience
is for these reports, or how they are disseminated. This will be clarified under the
VIGISUS project. The same is true for periodic newsletters and bulletins which are
produced. Few of the data summaries provided critical interpretations of the data.
DATASUS produces CD-ROMs of mortality and birth data and makes simplified
data sets available on the Internet. The CD-ROMs are distributed to the state health
departments.
Training is considered a high priority by the FNS (National Health Foundation). A
number of excellent programs have been created at the state and federal level to



attempt to meet the need for training in disease surveillance and case investigation.
These programs have generally been limited in size or duration. In addition,
because of high staff turnover, many of the individuals trained have left the public
health system. Although one recent training activity developed at the FNS has
attempted to harness computer technology, most rely on face-to-face, on-site
programs. The AIDS program has attempted to utilize distance-based learning
methods. Due to external forces (specifically the telecommunications
infrastructure), the public health network has not extensively upgraded
communications capacity. Few personnel at the state and municipal level have e-
mail access or teleconferencing capability.
The Challenge of Decentralization. Decentralization of health activities offers
both opportunities and challenges for disease surveillance. It allows redefinition of
roles and needs at each level of the surveillance infrastructure, and brings
responsibility for decision-making to all the stakeholders. The major challenge is to
assure quality and consistency in data collected at the local level. Even within an
autonomous, decentralized system, standards must be maintained so that data
collected in one jurisdiction can be compared to data collected in another
jurisdiction. Otherwise a statewide picture of health status and disease occurrence
cannot emerge, nor can a national picture emerge if results are not comparable
between states. In such circumstances, this can lead to misidentification of health
priorities, and possible maldistribution of health resources to address priority areas.
The larger municipalities already appear to function in an autonomously fashion,
and have built a high degree of self-reliance. However, the vast majority of smaller
municipalities currently have difficulties taking on added responsibilities for
surveillance because of resource limitations and inadequate training. Thus, they will
need strong support from their state health departments and from regional state
offices. Similarly, some state health departments have developed strong capacity,
but others will need assistance from their federal counterparts.
The roles of the municipal, state, and federal levels have been redefined as follows:
(i) the role of the municipal level would be:
*   primary data collection and reporting of cases;
*   case interview and investigation;
* implementation of public health intervention;
* limited data analysis; and
* outbreak investigation
(ii) the role of the state level would be:
*   data collation;



*  provision of technical assistance to municipalities;
*  primary data collection/investigation for municipalities which cannot
perform this function themselves;
* data analysis/analytic epidemiological studies; assistance with outbreak
investigations, particularly ones that are multi-
jurisdictional;
* feedback of information to the municipal level; and
* reporting of data and of suspected or confirmed outbreaks to the control level
(iii) the role of the federal level would be:
*  data analysis;
*  provision of technical expertise to states and large
municipalities;
* support for states with weaker infrastructures to perform their functions;
* analytic epidemiological studies;
*  support for outbreak investigations, especially those that are multistate;
systems design/investigation and control guidelines/support; feedback to the
state level; and
*  enhancement of communication with other departments of the MOH that
operate disease control programs, at the federal, state, and local levels.
There is the need to simplify data needs and collection methods to maximize
performance at the municipal level. efforts should be directed in maximizing
performance in these areas.  Also, efforts must be directed in maximizing
performance in the three current national surveillance systems (SINAN, SINASC,
and SIM). However, there are many other data needs which are not now being
systematically addressed.  Under the project, alternative methods could be
considered to meet these needs, such as sentinel networks, epidemiological centers
of excellence, and periodic surveys. Some examples for alternate surveillance
methods would include behavioral risk factor surveys, nosocomial infections,
chronic disease burden, and injuries.
Public health personnel are strongly motivated to improve their skills in order to do
their job as well as possible. They feel that additional resources and training are
essentlial to meet their increasingly complex tasks. An important training program
has been included in the project to that effect and is presented in Annex 12.
There is also a need to enhance the data management telecommunications system.
This issue is analyzed in Annex 11.



Annex 10
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
The System of Public Health Laboratories
Introduction. l The Brazilian system of public health laboratories consists of: (i) national
reference centers; (ii) macro-regional reference laboratories; (iii) state central laboratories; (iv)
biocontainment laboratories; (v) zoonoses centers; entomology centers; (vii) blood banks; and
(viii) border laboratories. The network already exits and will be rehabilitated and upgraded
under the project. The only exceptions are the border laboratories, and some additional
zoonoses centers that will involve new construction. A detailed list of laboratories and their
location is available in the project File.
National Reference Centers. The network of national reference centers has been defined.
These are existing centers of excellence located primarily at major institutes such as the
Adolfo Lutz Institute in Sao Paulo, the Evandro Chagas Institute in Belem, the Oswaldo Cruz
Institute in Rio de Janeiro, and others. A total of 19 national reference centers has been
established and serve to provide technical assistance for specific infectious diseases such as
cholera, yellow fever, and measles. The FNS (National Health Foundation) is conducting an
evaluation to determine the basic infrastructure and equipment needs of these laboratories,
measuring such things as the presence or absence of air conditioning, basic safety devices like
eyewash stations, and many other fundamental requirements. The project will help correct the
shortfalls identified.
Public Health Laboratories. Two categories of public health laboratories are proposed:
macro-regional reference laboratories (LRMR), and state central laboratories (LACEN). There
are five LRMR, and these are also the major institutions that house the National Reference
Centers described above. These are the Evandro Chagas Institute in Belem; the Otavio
Magalhaes Institute in Belo Horizonte; the Adolfo Lutz Institute in Sao Paulo; the Central
Laboratory of Pemambuco in Recife; and the Institute of Health for the Federal District of
Brasilia. Each of these laboratories provides diagnostic and technical assistance not only to the
state in which they are located, but also to several adjacent states, typically totaling about five
or six states each. There is a total of 27 central laboratories, with at least one located in each
state and the Federal District. The central laboratories have already been surveyed by the FNS
to identify critical infrastructure and equipment needs. The FNS is conducting an effort to
coordinate these laboratories in terms of basic laboratory procedures, laboratory safety, and
systematic generation of surveillance data.
This annex is based on a report by James W. Leduc of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
after a mission to Brazil during February 1-7, 1998



Biocontainment Laboratories. A network of 12 BSL-3 laboratories is being proposed. These
will result from renovations of existing BSL-2 facilities. The construction of these laboratories
is justified, especially at the major research centers such as FIOCRUZ, the Evandro Chagas
Institute, and the Adolfo Lutz Institute.
Zoonoses Centers. A large and well-developed network of zoonoses centers has been
established by the FNS. These centers focus on four areas: (i) rabies; (ii) leptospirosis; (iii)
snake bites; and (iv) human diseases associated with animals such as brucellosis and
toxoplasmosis. In addition, they provide other services depending upon the local demands and
enzootic diseases. Typical zoonoses centers have professional staff that deal with vector
control, insecticide and rodenticide applications, and laboratory analysis of enzootic diseases.
They also provide stray dog control and limited analysis of other zoonoses. At present, 93
zoonoses centers are in existence, with an additional 26 in preparation, and about 80 still to be
established. Thus, when completed, the zoonoses center network will be comprised of
approximately 200 centers. Fundamental requirements for space and personnel has been well
defined. In addition, these centers collaborate freely with a network of 32 agricultural
laboratories that concentrate on rabies in domestic animals.
A CDC visit to the zoonoses center in Brasilia showed that the facility is housed in a large and
well-maintained series of buildings first built in 1960. The center's activities focus on rabies
prevention, including control of stray dogs, vaccination of animals, and limited diagnosis
testing. The facility also provides testing for leptospirosis and visceral leishmaniasis, and is
currently involved in a project to examine serums from all the dogs sacrificed during 1998 for
evidence of leishmaniasis infection. Should positive-testing dogs be identified, the staff will
return to the owners of the dog, or to the area in which the animal was captured if it was a
stray, and evaluate the risk of visceral leishmaniasis for the resident population. The
laboratory also operates a large vector control operation, including proposed routine
assessment of insecticide susceptibility for mosquitoes. They also control domestic rats, and
offer services for control of scorpions. The professional staff is composed primarily of
veterinarians, but includes a few biologists and entomologists, but no epidemiologists. The
program has computer support. In case of human illness with one of the diseases for which the
center has responsibility, notification goes from the hospital to the epidemiology coordinator
for Brasilia, and from there to the zoonoses center. Center staff then respond as appropriate
with on-site investigations and control measures if warranted.
Entomology Centers. The entomology centers provide basic investigative services into the
biology and distribution of local vector insects, assess and supervise plans of action for vector
control, and evaluate vector control operations. Historically, these centers were associated
primarily with malaria control activities. They provide local risk assessment of vector-borne
diseases, indicate the best methods of vector control, evaluate the impact of control
interventions, monitor insecticide susceptibility of local vector species, and conduct limited
applied research activities about methods of control and evaluation. At present, there are a
total of 47 supervisory medical entomologists or sanitarians, and a staff of over 600 technical
assistants. These individuals work in 96 districts within all states (except Amapa and Acre),
and 4 locations in the Federal District. Entomology centers are not located within the zoonoses



centers, although their functions are closely linked. Under the project, this activity will be
merged with the zoonoses centers. They will also be reorganized to better define their
responsibilities and utilize their unique services more efficiently.
Blood Banks. In Brazil, blood supply is provided both by the private sector (about 30 percent)
and the public sector (70 percent). A total of 60 public centers currently exist in Brazil, with at
least one in every state and the Federal District. In terms of serving as a source for
surveillance information, the centers test all the donated blood for common blood-borne
pathogens, including HIV, Chagas diseases, hepatitis B and C, syphilis, and HTLV I/II.
Approximately 70 percent of the budget of the centers is spent on serological testing of
donated blood. Blood is also tested for hemoglobin content and other hematological
conditions, and in many areas information on the clinical conditions of donors is also
obtained. Careful analysis of the results of serological testing serves to define research topics,
such as determining the reason for extremely high prevalence of hepatitis in the Amazon
Region, and could contribute as one source of information for a comprehensive surveillance
system. Under the project, the national blood banks will be linked to more efficiently share the
relevant information and transfer technology.
Border Laboratories. A network of 12 laboratories located along the Brazilian border will be
constructed under the project. Brazil has borders with nine countries and there is a significant
risk of diseases crossing the border in both directions. These laboratories will have minimal
equipment, but will serve to quickly recognize disease threats on both sides of the border,
obtain clinical material for laboratory diagnosis, and forward these samples to a reference
facility for definitive diagnosis.
Financing of Laboratories under the Project. The project will finance: (i) the rehabilitation
and equipment of about 105 level-I laboratories; (ii) the construction and equipment of 12
border laboratories; (iii) the transformation of 12 level-II into level-III laboratories through
rehabilitation and equipment. The project will finance laboratory and computer equipment.
Training of Laboratory Personnel. There is aL critical need for training of laboratory
personnel in many areas. This will be addressed under the Project. The most significant is a
major need for formal training in epidemiology. To take an example, if one assumes that each
zoonoses center should have at least one individual with additional formal training in
epidemiology, then approximately 200 trained individuals will be required just for the
zoonoses centers. Training is especially important since VIGISUS will decentralize
surveillance activities to the state and municipal levels, yet a significant proportion of the
epidemiological expertise resides at the federal level, or within the most developed states and
major cities such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Training will be undertaken under the form
of several regional or state programs rather than a single, centralized effort. This will have the
added benefit of training staff on regional problems, and offer a structure whereby students
could rotate through the various areas to experience the different endemic disease challenges.



Specialized training will also be provided to staff in existing laboratories handling infectious
agents and newly-created biosafety laboratories. These individuals will then conduct a series
of short courses within the major laboratories on safe laboratory practices and procedures.
Finally, there will be a continuing need of ongoing technical training of staff to ensure that
they maintain competence in the fast-changing field of biomedical sciences. Each laboratory
need not utilize the most sophisticated procedures available, but they should be provided the
opportunity for formal and informal information exchange, technology transfer, and effective
collaboration. This will be attained through attendance of workshops, congresses, and study
tours, to be financed under the project. Details of the training program are provided in Annex
12.



Annex 11
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Data Management Telecommunications System
The Current System. 'The FNS (National Health Foundation) has developed five
major data management systems that are used for public health purposes. All of
these systems are in use at each of the Federal, state and municipal levels. They are:
(i) live birth certificates and natality reporting (SINASC);
(ii) notifiable diseases reporting (SINAN);
(iii) death certificates and mortality reporting (SIM);
(iv) hospital discharges (SIH-SUS); and
(v) ambulatory care data (SIA-SUS)
The first three (SINASC, SINAN, and SIM) work similarly to their counterparts in
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States. That is,
information is collected on birth certificates, notifiable disease report forms and
death certificates, respectively.  Those data are then keyed into the various
information systems at the municipal or state level and then reported electronically
from he municipalities to the state governments and then from the states to the
federal government.
Other organizations within the FNS have created additional "disease specific"
systems, such as those for leprosy, malaria, and tuberculosis (TB). The disease-
specific systems differ from the main five listed above in that they are used to follow
patients longitudinally rather than to report individual events.  Also they collect
more detailed data which are very targeted to the individual disease program areas.
Even for those health events where longitudinal follow up of patients is not
important, other systems of notifiable disease reporting continue to be used within
specific disease program areas. These may be paper-based and involve nothing more
'this annex is based on a report by Meade Morgan, Assistant Director for the Science Division of Public
Health Surveillance and Informatics, Epidemiology Program Office, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, Georgia, USA



than the reporting of summary case totals for a given municipality and time period.
This has led to the problem where the disease counts from the different systems do
not agree. One of the important goals of the new surveillance systems being
supported by the VIGISUS project is to eliminate these dual surveillance systems.
Currently AIDS is the sole program that relies only on the SINAN system for all
case reporting.
Data analysis and dissemination are important components of these systems. The
SIM, SIH-SUS,  SIA-SUS systems currently produce at least yearly public
information data sets which are distributed on CD-ROM and are available for real-
time interactive analysis on the Internet. The timeliness of the data varies somewhat
depending on the system. For example, a public versions of the SIH and SIA data
reported through the end of 1997 had already been released in March 1998 while the
latest available version of the SIM data is for deaths through 1996. Data from the
other two systems, SINASC and SINAN, are released through published reports and
statistical summaries.
Not only are data from each of the systems made available for analysis, but summary
information from various data systems that can be linked at the municipality and
higher geographic areas. This allows, for example, infectious disease rates from the
mortality system to be compared with those from the notifiable diseases system.
Occasionally these systems can also be linked down to the health care provider level.
However, they do not currently allow information for individual patients to be linked
together.
New Systems. In addition to the systems that have been discussed, there are yet
other information systems and projects that have either been created or are planned.
They include the following:
(i) an immunization system (SIPNI) which serves as both an immunization
registry and for generating information on vaccine coverage or other statistics
useful for program planning and policy development;
(ii) a national public health telecommunications network known as the Rede
Nacional de Informacoes em Sauide (RNIS)2. The RNIS is being supported under
the Bank-financed REFORSUS project. Currently, all state and municipal health
agencies located in capital cities have full Internet access -- including e-mail
capability. The RNIS project is continuing to expand the information network to
even more health department and hopes eventually to provide Internet service to
all municipal health departments and public health laboratories. The VIGISUS
supported surveillance systems will utilize the RNIS rather than create a separate
surveillance telecommunications network. The RNIS plan states that the
2For more infornation on the RNIS system, see http://www.datasus.gov.br/rnis



telecommunications network will specifically support the five systems listed
earlier: SINASC, SINAN, SIM, SIH-SUS, and SIA-SUS. This is appropriate in
that: (i) it reduces duplication of effort; and (ii) using the Internet for data
transmission will save VIGISUS considerable development and support costs
over the long run;
(iii) a new data system (not yet named) summarizing all research data relevant to
public health is being planned by the FNS.   The data system  will be
comprehensive and will contain abstracts of information from medical and public
health publications, as well as summary data from the public health surveillance
systems currently managed by the FNS. It will cover all aspects of public health
including the general health status of the population, infectious diseases, chronic
diseases, and environmental health at each of the federal, state and municipal
levels. The medical research community in Brazil will find this data set
especially useful in that it will allow for formal meta-analysis3 of research related
to a health condition or disease;
(iv) a new public health laboratory information system (also not yet named) is
being planned by the FNS. The uses of the system are still being discussed, but at
a minimum it will provide for the tracking of individual specimens and the
automated collection of laboratory test results; and
(v) two environmental health information systems are being planned by the FNS.
The first, Sistema de Vigilancia Ambiental (SIVA), will assist primarily in the
financial management of control activities. The second, Sistema de Vectores e
Reservat6rios (SIVER), will manage information related to the control of vectors
and reservoirs for disease transmission.
Issues in the Collection and Management of ]Public Health Data. There are a
number of issues that relate to the collection and management of public health data.
They include:
(i) Developing standardized protocols for conducting health assessments of the
population at the state and municipal levels. These are undertaken through
studies conducted in collaboration between private universities, research
institutions, and the FNS. The actual surveys would be conducted by either the
states or municipalities through contracts with various universities. The use of a
standardized protocol will allow results to be compared across areas and an
overall national health assessment to be developed.
3Meta-analysis is a statistical technique that allows information to be combined from a variety of different sources, including
raw data such as those produced by the surveillance systems and data from published data summaries. The method allows
these different pieces of (possibly conflicting) information to be combined in a meaningful way to investigate issues of
interest, including those in public health.



(ii) Defining data standards for health information systems. These standards,
pertaining to the definition and coding of individual demographic, clinical, and
laboratory data elements, will allow the linking of information by health event,
by time (for example month and year), and geographic area (for example
institution, municipality, and state.) Of particular interest is recent legislation
that has been passed at the federal level calling for a new unique patient health
services identifier number. If it is indeed implemented, then that number could
be used to link individual patient records from multiple sources and collected at
different times. It would apply to all health data systems in both the government
and private sectors. Currently the FNS is involved in the overall standards setting
process.
(iii) Redesigning all of the FNS epidemiological surveillance systems so that
they will be easier to u-se and will provide more timely, complete and accurate
data. New versions of the SINASC and SIM systems, written in Borland Delphi
for the 32-bit Microsoft Windows operating systems (Windows '95 and
Windows NT) are expected to be released by June 1998. A new version of the
SINAN system is being planned for release in January 1, 1999, though mid-
summer of that year might be more realistic. In order to meet the deadline, the
first version of the system will only be used for a few rather than all 41 diseases.
Neither the diseases nor the computer language in which the new SINAN will be
developed have yet been deterrnined.
(iv) Getting states and municipalities involved. FNS has adopted a formal policy
of joint application design (JAD) for all new versions of its data systems, most
importantly the new SINAN. Using JAD, the resulting systems are more likely
to meet the true needs of the users and all of the stake-holders at all levels of the
government (federal, state and municipal). The FNS will include in the process
not only representatives from high-capacity areas that have considerable system
design and data management expertise, but also those from low-capacity areas
that must rely totally on the federal or state governments for providing and
supporting their data management solutions. A questionnaire is being developed
to ask the states and municipal areas for their ideas and recommendations for the
new system. A series of meetings is also planned with as-yet-to-be-selected state
and municipal governments to discuss requirements with FNS staff. An
important issue being addressed is the need to train states to support the current
SINAN while the new system is under development, to involve all levels of
government and researchers from disease-specific program areas in the design
process, and adopting standards that will apply not only to SINAN but to other
data systems within the MOH as well.
All disease-specific systems will be eliminated in favor of the new SINAN
system. This will be a drastic and important change in the way that the
surveillance data system works. With so radical a change in the reporting system
being planned, it is very important that experts in each of the disease areas be



involved in the design of the surveillance forms and the development of the new
SINAN software. This is indeed being planned as part of the JAD process.
(v) Connecting additional municipalities to the RNIS network. The REFORSUS-
financed RNIS intends to provide Internet access to all State health departments,
regional health agencies, and municipal health agencies within three years. This
is an ambitious timetable given the lack of infrastructure in some remote areas of
Brazil. It amounts to about 6,000 connections, and supporting hardware, software
and training (at least) that will need to be provided. To date, only four states
(Maranhao, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Parana) and the Distrito Federal have had
their plans for the RNIS approved -- and these are as pilot projects. Should there
be delays in the RNIS implementation, it is perfectly acceptable that diskettes
continue to be used to transmit data through SINAN and the various other
VIGISUS supported data systems. However, the system would be less efficient.
The proposed VIGISUS project will include a provision by which VIGISUS
would undertake to finance the implementation of the RNIS should there be
undue delays under the REFORSUS project.
Financing of the Data Management Telecommunications System. The future
telecommunication system is being built on top of the public Internet which should
provide the necessary flexibility and capacity to meet both the current and future
needs of the system. To complement the support to be provided by the REFORSUS
project, under VIGISUS, financing will be provided to: (i) provide micro-computers,
printers, telephone links, and vehicles to eligible municipalities; (ii) develop and
implement new modules for the public health information system; (iii) provide
technical assistance to help the states and municipalities resolve practical issues in
implementing the improved and standardized surveillance programs envisioned by
VIGISUS; and (iv) improve the data telecommunications system at the central level.



Data Management Telecommunications System
Implementation Schedule
Task                              Current Status       Phase I Objective       Phase        II  Phasn III Objective
Objectve
Inventory the current health data                                              Maintain    the  Maintain the Inventory.
systems with FNS.                                                              inventory.
Train States to take over current Training sessions are  Dates for "shutdown" of Not applicable.    Not applicable.
DOS-based SINAN system.           underway -  to be  the   current   SINAN
completed by April  system should be set so
30,1998.             that users can be prepared
to switch to the newer
system. At least a one
year overlap between the
systems  is  desirable,
especially since the new
system requires better
computers.
Develop  standard  data  element The standards setting  Continue the standards  Continue    the  Continue  the  standards  setting
definitions and coding rules for process as begun and  setting process as new  standards setting  process as new data elements and
information throughout the Ministry  should be completed  data elements and issues  process as new  issues are identified.
of Health, including those supported  before the VIGISUS  are identified.      data   elements
by the VIGISUS project.          project    formally                           and  issues  are
begins.      These                           identified.
standards are needed
for the new version of
the SINAN system
which is currently
being designed.
Develop  Internet  data  security                      Should be completed by  Maintain    the  Maintain the Interet standards to
standards to  be applied  to  all                      the time the new version  Internet standards  reflect   new   and   emerging
sensifive  information  transmitted                    of SINAN is sent into the  to  reflect new  technologies.
though  the  VIGISUS  supported                        field.  This would be  and    emerging
systems.                                               sometime in late 1998.    technologies.
Develop and implement new SIM   Prototype  expected  Maintain  and  enhance  Maintain   and  Maintain  and  enhance  these
and SINASC systems.               by late March 1998; these systems, possibly  enhance   these  systems.
full  implementation  providing  the  option  systems.
by June 1, 1998      allow    providers   to
directly enter birth and
death records via the
Internet.
Develop   and  implement  new  Full implementation  A more realistic estimate  Maintain    and  Maintain and enhance the system.
notifiable diseases (SINAN) system.   expected    by  for design, development enhance       the
December 31, 1998.  and      implementation  system.
Note: this is overly  would be mid-year 1999.
optimistic, especially  Implement the full system
if forms are to be re-  with   all  reportable
designed,      data  diseases  in  place  by
definitions    and  December 30, 1999.
coding standards are
to be set, and a JAD
process is to be used
for   the   system
development.
However, THE FNS
staff feel that this
deadline can be met
by  restricting  the
I system to a few (not I



yet chosen) diseases
in the initial software
release.
Develop and implement new                            Develop   system   by  Maintain   and  Maintain and enhance the system.
public  health  laboratory  data                     December  30,  1999; enhance    the
management system.                                   implement system  in 5  system.
State reference labs by
June 30, 2000.  Fully
implement the system in
all   public    health
laboratories by December
30, 2002.
Develop  and  implement  new                         Develop  systems  by  Maintain   and  Maintain and enhance the system.
environmental surveillance systems                   December  31,  1999;  enhance    the
(SIVA and SIVER).                                    implement in State health  system.
departments by March 31,
2000.
Create a data base for tracking                      Design and development Maintain   and  Maintain and enhance the system.
publicly funded health interventions                 could  reasonably  be  enhance    the
at the State, local and municipal                    completed by October 31, system.
levels.                                              1999.  However, since
this is a new proposal not
yet a priority or even
agreed to by the FNS, it
may take considerably
longer if it is done at all.
Establish         Intemet-based  Full       Intemet  Provide  all municipal,  Upgrade Intemet Upgrade Intemet connections in at
telecommunications network.      connections available  regional and State health  connections  to  least 500 areas.
in all 27 State health  agencies  with  Intemet  faster lines in at
departments and in  access (and the necessary  least 1000 areas.
municipal    health  computer hardware and
departments for all  software) by
State capitals.     December 30,2002
Conduct  surveillance  evaluation                    Develop study protocols  Repeat    data  Continue 5 additional completeness
studies for data quality and under-                  by  March  31,  1999. quality study by  of reporting studies by December
reporting.                                           Conduct  data  quality  June 30, 2002. 31, 2004.
study by June 30, 1999. Conduct     10
Implement completeness  additional
of reporting studies for at completeness of
least one health condition  reporting studies
in 10 States by December  in   an    by
31, 2001.              December   31,
2003.



VIGISUS Project Implementation Schedule
The following table lists specific items that will be checked at the end of Phase-I
to help determine if the VIGISUS project is on-track.
Item                                 Current Status                                       End of Phase-I Goal
Develop and implement data definition  Discussions ofstandards arejust beginning.         Standards are clearly defined and all
and coding standards.                                                                     THE FNS supported systems use those
standards.
Develop and fully implement the new  Design of the new SINAN system is just beginning. The  The old SINAN system is completely
SINAN system for notifiable diseases.    first version of the system, supporting "a few" diseases, phased out and all notifiable diseases are
will be implemented in all States by January 1, 1999.  supported by the new SINAN system.
Develop and fully implement the public  Design  of the new  public  health  laboratory  data  The new  system  should be in full
health  laboratory  data  management management system has not formally begun. It should  operation   in  all  public  health
system.                              include the ability to electronically transfer patient level laboratories.
data into the new SINAN system.
Implement the RNIS Intemet network.    Currently 5 State-level pilot projects have been fully  All municipal, regional, and State health
funded.                                             departments have full Internet access.
Implement   surveillance   validation  No surveillance evaluation studies have been done.  Ongoing studies of the accuracy of
studies                                                                                   reported surveillance data are underway.
Further, at least  10  State  health
departments     have      conducted
completeness studies for at least one
disease each.
Create  data  system   for  tracking  No system for currently tracking interventions currently  This is still under discussion with the
interventions                        exists.                                              FNS. Should agreement be reached by
June 1999, the data system should be
fully operational by the end of phase 1.



Annex 12
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Training Program
--Description--         Targeted-       ridr         cost (US$)
, --- - f | ~~~Pernel-- 
Field Epidemiology Training    Doctoral level  FNS in           1,500,000
Program (FETP)' This program of  trainees. 10    collaboration
applied epidemiology training is    graduates over  with CDC
designed to foster the professional  the first three
development of field-trained   years.
epidemiologists who are
competent in the practical
application of epidemiological
methods to a wide range of public
health problems. The trainees will
themselves become trainers later.
Basic Principles of Outbreak    200           States            200,000
Investigations. This consists of a 2-  participants
week course, followed by a 6-   from
month field project, and a one-  municipalities
week follow-up course.         trained
Participants would be public health
specialists, masters in
epidemiology.
Data for Decision-Making        Train-the-    FNS and CDC       300,000
(DDM). The objective is to train    trainer course
state and municipal public health   in single state
workers in the rational collection,   with 25
analysis, and use of data. The  participants
course consists of 3 two-week  from several
courses with structured projects    states. Two
between courses. Total time: one    rounds: 50
year.                          people trained
Public Health Fellowships. Short-  Laboratory  Consultancies    750,000
term training (2 weeks to six  and other      arranged
months) in other countries.     health workers  between FNS
Since 1980, the CDC has helped in the establishment of FETPs by ministries of health and universities in
over 15 countries, including France, Indonesia, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan (China), and
Thailand. The program is considered highly successful. Approximately 95 percent of all FETP
graduates have remained in government service as epidemiologists and program managers at local,
district, provincial, and national levels. Trainees have conducted investigations encompassing
virtually every area of public health including vaccine-preventable diseases, diarrheal diseases,
malaria and other vector-borne diseases, human immunodeficiency virus, occupational and
environmental health, chronic diseases, cancer, and injury prevention. The program will produce 50
graduates over the course of 7 years. It takes about a year to set up the program, thus raising the
apparent unit cost of a graduate for the first APL.



chosen by the   and CDC
MOH. 75
fellowships
Laboratory Biosafety Training.  "New"          States and FNS    1,043,000
Curriculum development by CDC   trainers to
with FIOCRUZ (Brazil). Target    train 600
are 60 state and central FNS staff   superior and
who will serve as trainers in   300 mid-level
subsequent training cycles (3   laboratory
courses of 1-2 weeks producing 20  personnel
trainers each.
Computer Training - Laboratory    100 trainers to  States        280,000
Reporting. Instruction in use of  be trained
new computerized laboratory
reporting system. Three courses of
33 trainees each.
Management Training. To improve  90 public     FNS with          720,000
management skills at the state  health and     ABRASCO
level. Ten one-week per month   administrators  and states
courses over a one-year period.  from states
Training at 2-3 sites per year.  and
Curriculum development by       municipalities
ABRASCO and FNS.
Environment Surveillance Courses.
(to be completed)
Communicable Disease Control.    90 high-level   FNS and state   476,000
One course per year for 30      staff trained    universities in
trainees. Total of 120 days2.                  the Amazon
Region         __ __
Training of Community Health    540 agents     FNS, PACS         403,000
Agents. Two 7-day courses per   trained        program,
state                                         states, and
municipalities
Training of Indigenous Health   1000 agents                     1,000,000
Agents.                         trained
2 Over 3-4 periods to avoid taking senior staff away from their operational functions for an extensive time



Annex 13
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Project Management and Operational Manual
The Project Coordinating Unit
The project would be coordinated by the FNS, which would establish a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), that would be directly linked to the Planning Department of the
FNS. The PCU will be the continuation of the present Project Preparation Unit, whose
Director and part of its management team are former members of the PCU that was
successful in turning around the implementation of the two Bank-financed Amazon Basin
Malaria and Northeast Endemic Diseases projects.
The PCU would have the following responsibilities:
(i) promote the project in states and municipalities;
(ii) ensure the project's management, including maintaining project records and preparing
regular implementation reports;
(iii) ensure, with the collaboration of the states and municipalities, and the Bipartite
Commissions (CIB)', the execution of the pre-designed part of the project components
(infrastructure, training, etc.);
(iv) prepare terms of reference, for the hiring of consultants who will assist in
implementing the project components, and supervise their work;
(v) coordinate the processing (identification, preparation, appraisal, approval by the CIB,
and supervision) of subprojects presented by municipalities and states, ensuring
compliance with the Operational Manual;
(vi) ensure that states, municipalities, and other executing agencies comply
with Bank procurement guidelines;
(vi) ensure the provision of technical assistance to weaker states and municipalities for
the preparation of subprojects, and for procurement;
(vii) undertake the financial management of the project;
(viii) operate a management information system to track project processing;
(ix) ensure the auditing of project accounts and other audits required by the Bank;
(x) coordinate Bank supervision missions, and carry out the mid-term review of the
project; and
(xi) organize the evaluation of the project's impact using monitoring indicators, analysis,
and other appropriate methodology.
iBipartite Commissions are commissions, at the state level, with equal representation from the State
Secretariats of Health and from the Council of State Municipal Secretariats



Project Implementation
Each project component will be implemented in two ways: (i) activities that are already
pre-designed (e.g. rehabilitation and equipment of state laboratories, epidemiological
surveillance training programs, etc.) will be executed according to an implementation
schedule by the central FNS, the states, municipalities or NGOs; these activities and
schedules are included in an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)
subprojects that will be presented by municipalities, states, and NGOs, which are not pre-
designed, but are prepared by subproject sponsors and evaluated according to eligibility
and evaluation criteria included in the Operational Manual.
Operational Manual
Size and Targeting of Funds. For each component, the Operational Manual allocates
funds between pre-designed activities and between subprojects. For pre-designed
activities, funds are allocated on the basis of cost estimates. For subprojects, funds are
allocated to states (and municipalities) using a transparent allocation formula based upon
population and incidence of disease criteria. The detailed allocation tables are part of the
Operational Manual. The objective is to reach the financing targets presented in these
tables, and technical assistance would be provided to help attain this objective. However,
if despite reasonable support from the project management, some states (and
municipalities) continue to perform poorly, part of their funds could be reallocated to
better performers. This methodology has already been successfully implemented in the
Bank-financed Second Northeast Basic Health Services Project and has helped improve
the efficiency of implementation of this project while maintaining fairness and equity.
Direct Beneficiaries Direct beneficiaries would be health providers at all three levels of
government, health sector professionals, and ultimately the whole population as improved
surveillance would result in better prevention and control of diseases.
Sponsors. Sponsors (or presenters) of subprojects would consist of municipalities, states,
other public institutions (e.g. universities, foundations) and NGOs.
Cofinancing. On average, subprojects would be financed as follows: 50 percent by the
Bank, 35 percent by the FNS; 10 percent by states; and 5 percent by municipalities and
others.
Subproject Cycle. The subproject cycle and eligibility and appraisal criteria would be
included in the Operational Manual. They are summarized below.
Promotion. The Coordination Unit (PCU) would invite sponsors to identify subprojects
for financing under the project. Representatives from the PCU would visit states and
municipalities to transmit and explain subproject eligibility and appraisal criteria.
Technical assistance would be provided to weaker municipalities and states in the areas
of project preparation and procurement, notably.



Preparation. Subprojects would be prepared by sponsors using: (i) the eligibility and
appraisal criteria included in the Operational Manual; and (ii) the guidelines for
subproject preparation and appraisal.
Appraisal and Approval. Subprojects would be appraised and approved as follows:
Size;of Subprojects (US$)  Appraised by                  by
<350,000             State's Bipartite          CIB
Commission (CIB)
350,000 - 3,000,000            CIB                PCU/FNS
> 3,000,000                PCU                 FNS/Bank
Signing of Subproject Agreement. An agreement would be signed between the FNS and
the sponsor, delineating the obligations and rights in undertaking subprojects, assigning
responsibilities to the respective parties, and specifying criteria for the sustainability of
the subproject.
Implementation. For each subproject, contracting would be undertaken for civil works,
goods, and consultants, using procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Within 30
days of the end of each month, the sponsors would remit a subproject statement of
expenditures to the PCU.
Supervision would be undertaken by the PCU and the states. Part of the supervision may
be contracted out to private consultants.
Eligibility Criteria Eligibility criteria are necessary but not sufficient conditions that
must be met by the subprojects. These include: (i) a preliminary supply and demand
study taking into consideration the population to be covered, its epidemiological profile,
and the existing supply of services; (ii) the integration of the proposal within Brazil's
disease surveillance and control system; (iii) an implementation plan with start-up and
completion dates and phases of implementation. Subprojects that do not fulfill the
eligibility criteria would be immediately returned to the sponsor. Those that qualify
would be analyzed using the appraisal criteria.
Type of Subprojects. Subprojects would include one or more of the following elements:
rehabilitation, expansion or construction of facilities, equipment, training and technical
assistance, drugs (in some particular cases for subprojects in the Amazon Region) and
operating costs (also in particular cases in the Amazon Region and for indigenous health,
on a declining basis).
Appraisal Criteria The subprojects presented would be appraised using the following
criteria.
Economic Evaluation. Analysis of supply and demand, taking into consideration: (i) the
population's epidemiological profile; (ii) existing capacity within the municipality, the



state, or the region, and possible modifications in capacity through changes in operating
methods (organization, working hours, etc.); and (iii) coherence with municipal and state
health plans.
Technical Evaluation. This would include the review of: (i) compliance with MOH and
FNS norms and other technical criteria in the Operational Manual; (ii) sponsor's proposal
to improve the quality of services; and (iii) architectural plans and engineering drawings,
when applicable.
Institutional Evaluation. Analysis of availability of specialized staff to operate and
maintain the facilities and equipment.
Financial Evaluation. The sponsor should have the fiscal and management capability to
carry out the subproject as demonstrated in the analysis undertaken as part of subproject
preparation. The capacity of a sponsor to implement the subproject would be based on an
analysis of the following: (i) availability of counterpart funds to finance the investment
cost of the subproject; (ii) availability of funds to finance trained personnel to operate the
rehabilitated or new unit and the new equipment; (iii) availability of funds to finance
recurrent costs (based on historical budgets and new financing mechanisms under the
Unified health System (SUS); and (iv) an operation and maintenance plan.
Environmental Evaluation. Analysis of possible negative environmental impact (solid,
liquid, and gaseous wastes, or other risks) and of proposed measures to mitigate the
negative effects.
Impact Evaluation. Each subproject would present a set of indicators (e.g., of efficiency
or quality) that would be used to measure the impact of the subproject.
Ranking. Subprojects would be ranked using objective criteria and a points system.
Higher-ranking subprojects would be approved first. To ensure fairness, technical
assistance would be provided to municipalities and states whose proposals consistently
rank lower.
Mid-Term Review
Timing. The VIGISUS mid-term review mission will take place in September 2000. The
Bank mission will be composed of Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (Team Leader), Anabela
Abreu (Health Specialist), Christian Hurtado (consultant), as well as specialists in the
areas of laboratories, data telecommunications, environmental surveillance, and
indigenous populations.
Background. The purpose of the mid-termn review is to evaluate project performance
during implementation, to provide project management with immediate feedback on
project achievements as well as on areas needing improvement, to justify and orient
eventual changes in project design, and to document the status of project execution
thoroughly for the benefit of the client. The mid-term review procedure consists of an



initial period of approximately two weeks when a team designated by VIGISUS collects
and reviews information assembled by the project since the beginning of project
implementation, focusing on technical, administrative, and financial aspects of the
project. Following this fact-finding period, the review team analyzes the information
collected, reviews progress against original targets, and prepares a brief report
highlighting strengths and weaknesses, and makes recommendations for management
action. It would need to cover the whole project period from the beginning of
implementation and cover areas described below in the terms of reference. The Bank
mission will review that report and undertake field visits to subproject sites at the
beginning of the mission. Then it will join the VIGISUS management team to discuss its
findings and recommendations, and arrive at concrete agreements regarding targets to be
reached and changes to be made in project management and implementation.
Objectives. The main objectives of the mid-term review are to: (i) verify compliance
with actions previously agreed; (ii) undertake a technical review of subprojects; (iii)
undertake an administrative and financial review of VIGISUS; (iv) carry out an impact
analysis; (v) assess innovations introduced by the project; (vi) verify progress in research
and studies; and (vii) agree on follow-up actions.
Specific Aspects to be Reviewed in each Area. The review of compliance of actions
previously agreed will consist in checking the progress on actions agreed during last
supervision mission.
The review of progress in decentralization of the FNS will include an assessment of
the extent to which the FNS is being transformed from a federal vertical program
organization toward a mostly regulatory agency. The review will also analyze to what
extent states and municipalities are assuming the roles expected from them as described
in Annex 9.
The technical review of project activities will include an assessment of progress in: (i)
rehabilitation of laboratories; (ii) rehabilitation of cold chains and other health facilities;
(iii) data telecommunications system; (iv) environmental surveillance; (v) training; (vi)
studies and research; (vii) disease control in the Amazon; and (viii) indigenous health.
The technical review of subprojects will include an assessment of: (i) progress made in
the implementation of an integrated disease surveillance model; (ii) the quality of
subprojects; (iii) the sustainability of subprojects; (iv) the procedures for processing
subprojects from identification to supervision; (v) the efficiency of subproject execution,
procurement, and contractual practices; and (vi) the institutional capacity of executing
agencies.
The administrative and fmancial review will focus on: (i) overall performance of the
PCU of VIGISUS and its link to the FNS; (ii) personnel administration, recruitment, and
retention of quality staff, (iii) accounting procedures and results of financial audits; (iv)
efficiency of management information systems; (v) analysis of overhead costs to



determine whether VIGISUS is achieving its objectives in a cost-effective way; (vi)
financial projections; (vii) procurement administration; and (viii) disbursement of funds
for subprojects.
The review of the project's innovative aspects will review innovations introduced by
the project in terms of new concepts in disease surveillance and control, or in the
processes used to implement subprojects, and will assess the extent to which further
innovations can be introduced during the rest of the project life or in VIGISUS II.
Detailed terms of reference for the evaluation of the disease surveillance and control
system will be presented by the MOH to the Bank. The evaluation of the system at the
end of the project will be based on objective factors such as the capacity of the system to
monitor each health event taking into consideration sensitivity and specificity, the
efficiency, representativeness, timeliness, and flexibility of the system, the feedback
provided, the level of training of the personnel, the use of data for decision-making, and
the speed of response to outbreaks.
Finally, the review will assess VIGISUS performance compared to indicators and will
conclude with agreements for actions to be taken by VIGISUS or by the Bank that will
help improve the implementation of the project or serve as lessons learned for the
implementation of VIGISUS II.
Overall Monitoring and Evaluation Study
A study will be undertaken during year 3 of the project to assess: (i) compliance with
performance indicators; (ii) economic impact of the project and sustainability; and (iii)
overall evaluation of the disease surveillance system as a whole.
Compliance with monitoring indicators will be assessed by using the indicators presented
in Annex lb as well as data presented by the PCU.
The analysis of the economic impact of the project and its sustainability will use the
framework presented in Annex 6 and data presented by the PCU and collected in the
field. Assumptions originally used will be verified through data analysis (e.g. average
cost of hospital stay) and field visits.
The overall evaluation of the disease surveillance system will use objective factors such
as capacity of the system to monitor each health event taking into consideration validity
and reliability of data, sensitivity2 and specificity3, the efficiency, representativeness,
2 sensitivity is the proportion of persons with a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance
system



timeliness, and flexibility of the system, the feedback provided, the level of training of
the personnel, the use of data for decision-making, and the speed of response to
outbreaks. It will also evaluate the usefulness and cost of the system.
Detailed TORs for the monitoring and evaluation study will be presented by the PCU no
later than September 30, 2000.
3 specificity is the proportion of persons without a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance
system



Annex 14
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Indigenous Health Development
Background. Although VIGIGISUS would benefit the entire Brazilian population,
particularly the poor who are affected disproportional by communicable diseases, its main
stakeholders are institutions (local and state governments, research institution, universities,
laboratories.) However, by adding a specific component to address indigenous peoples
health, notoriously the most vulnerable of all groups in Brazil, in addition to the institutional
actors, the indigenous are recognized as an identifiable stakeholder/beneficiary of VIGISUS.
By conducting preparatory missions in the field, and through other formal consultation
processes, the key institutional stakeholders of VIGISUS took an important role in the design
of the project. The challenge faced by the social assessment was how to incorporate the
views and aspirations of the indigenous groups, traditionally invisible in the Brazilian
scenario. To face this challenge, an indigenous health development plan was agreed with the
Coordena9co de Sauide Indigena, in FNS (COSAI/FNS). This plan was designed through
participatory tools, and discussed in a workshop with representatives of indigenous peoples,
indigenous NGOs and community groups, and main civil and governmental institutions
concerned with indigenous rights and indigenous health, included FUNAI.
The design of the subcomponent on indigenous health consolidates results and
recommendations produced during project preparation by a series of diagnosis on indigenous
peoples health in Brazil, particularly in the Amazonian region. In addition, it incorporates
results from several consultations with indigenous people representatives, indigenous NGOs,
universities, and other governmental organizations that participate in indigenous policies and
programs in Brazil. COSAI/FNS as the counterpart of the Bank responsible for designing and
implementing the subcomponent, was the institution responsible for designing the plan that
resulted in the programmed activities of the indigenous health subcomponent. The indigenous
health subcomponent should be read as the indigenous health development plan for the
proposed project.
Among others, the following institutions were consulted and collaborated through their
recommendations to the proposed design of the indigenous health subcomponent: Associacao
dos Professores e Monitores Indigenas Surud, Associacao Indigena Pankararil, Associa9ao
dos Povos Indigenas de Minas Gerais e do Espirito Santo, Protecao Ambiental Cocoalense,
Documentacao Indigena e Ambiental, Comissao pela Criacao dos Povos Yanomami, Uniao
das Nacoes Indigenas, Federacao das Nacoes Indigenas do Rio Negro, Diocese de Sao
Gabriel do Amazonas, Conselho Indigena de Roraima, Agentes Indigenas de Sauide Satere,
Conselho de Saiide de Guarapuava, Distrito SanitarioYanomami, Amerindio Coperaci6,
Coordenacao das Nac6es Indigenas da Amaz6nia, Representa9&o das Mulheres Indigenas,
Conselho Indigenista Missionario, Medecins sans Frontieres, Fundacao Nacional do Indio,
Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Universidade Federal do Estado de Sao Paulo, Universidade



Federal do Amazonas, Associaqqo Brasileira de Antropologia, Secretaria Municipal de
Saude, Secretaria Estadual de Sauide do Mato Grosso.
Prevalent Diseases. There is not an information system with reliable health indicators for the
indigenous population (one is proposed by VIGISUS that will be integrated into the
surveillance information system.) According to what is available, the main diseases affecting
indigenous peoples are: (a) those provoked by unsafe water: cholera, diarrhea, and hepatitis
A; (b) those that are transmissible: tuberculosis, and hepatitis B; (c) acute respiratory
infections; and (d) diseases provoked by malnutrition. In the Amazon Region, there is also a
high prevalence of malaria, leishmaniosis smallpox, dengue and measles. Suicide is high
among some ethnic groups. AIDS and cancer are beginning to be prevalent, and alcoholism
is also increasing among many groups.
Population. The indigenous population account for less than 0.3 percent of the entire
Brazilian population. An estimated 310,000 indigenous people are spread across 24 states
(out of 27 states), with about 70 percent of them living in the states comprising the Legal
Amazonian ( Acre, Mato Grosso, Amapa, Para, Amazonas, Rondonia, Goias, Roraima,
Maranhao, and Tocantins.) VIGISUS will benefit indigenous peoples living in 18 states,
targeted by the greatest number of indigenous and by their epidemiological profile.
Indigenous living in 257 municipalities will be covered by the project. The states of Alagoas,
Espirito Santo, Goias, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, whose indigenous population totals less
than 10,000, will continue to be covered through other regular programs of FNS.
Institutional Responsibilities. The responsibilities for the health status of indigenous
peoples health are split between Ministry of Health/FNS/COSAI and FUNAI. The former
holds the responsibilities for prevention, whereas FUNAI holds responsibilities for primary
and secondary health care. Currently, a new law is being discussed in Congress that attributes
integral attention to indigenous health to the Ministry of Health, relating this care to some of
the SUS decentralized mechanisms of health care provision. The VIGISUS project will help
prepare FNS to assume its upcoming legal responsibilities. At the same time VIGISUS
supports activities presently being undertaken by both the Ministry of Health/FNS/COSAI
and FUNAI. Therefore, until the new Law is approved, FUNAI should be considered as a
beneficiary of the project that will be in charge of some of the key proposed investments,
including training for indigenous health agents.
Although health care for indigenous groups is considered a federal responsibility, according
to the Norma Operacional Basica do Sistema Unico de Sauide (NOB/SUS/96), this should be
shared with states and municipalities. Financial transfers from SUS to municipalities are
based on the number of residents in each of them. Thus, transfers take into account the
number of indigenous residents. However, the fact that the latter live in the most remote
areas make health services provided by SUS through municipal governments almost
inaccessible to them.
Both FUNAI and COSAI/FNS have a weak capacity to respond efficiently to the demand of
providing decent health care and access to reliable health services to the indigenous
population. The project will face this challenge by: (a) strengthening and training the staff of
institutions involved in indigenous health, at the federal, state, and municipal levels,



including universities, research centers and NGOs; (b) supporting an information on
indigenous health that will allow a rational plan of investments and monitoring of results; (c)
training of indigenous health agents and training of new ones; (d) building and rehabilitating
safe water system in indigenous localities; (e) building and rehabilitating health posts in
indigenous localities; (f) building and rehabilitating Casas do Indiol, in state capitals; (g)
supporting the creation of indigenous sanitary districts (distritos sanitarios indigenas); and (h)
supporting and empowering indigenous groups organizations to participate of VIGISUS. All
these activities were recommended by two National Health Conferences and by one National
Indigenous Health Conference and by the consultation activities undertaken during
preparation.
Non-traditional health services: health posts and indigenous health agents. Living far
away from municipal centers where health services are available, health posts are frequently
the only place where indigenous individuals can get access to health care. Most often, this
care is provided by the indigenous health agents, whose training is FUNAI's responsibility.
The surveillance system supported by VIGISUS would also rely on those agents for
notification of communicable diseases. FUINAI also holds the responsibility for building and
maintaining these posts. Nonetheless, not adequately funded, FUNAI has been unable to
maintain them as well as to train new and retrain the existent indigenous health agents.
Increasingly this responsibility has been informally taken over by FNS/COSAI, working
collaboratively with FUNAI at the local level. As recommended by the workshop, both the
infrastructure and training activities would be supported by the project.
I Facilities designed to receive indigenous patients and relatives before referring them to the nearest health
service available, and host convalescent patients before they return home.



Annex 15
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget(US$)            Planned                    Actual
(At PCD Stage)
200,000                  204,000
B. Project Schedule               Planned                   Actual
(At PCD Stage)
Time taken to prepare the        12 months                 10 months
project (months)
First Bank mission             September 1997           September 1997
(identification)
Appraisal mission departure      May 1998                  April 1998
Negotiations                     June 1998                 July 1998
Planned date of                 January 1999
effectiveness
Prepared by:                       Brazil's National Health Foundation
Preparation assistance:              Bank, CDC, WHO, and PAHO
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project include:
Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (Task Manager), Anabela Abreu, Roque Ardon, Girindre
Beeharry, Orville Grimes, Renato Gusmao, Robert. Hahn, Douglas Hamilton, Christian
Hurtado, Juan David Quintero, James Le Duc, Jay Mc Auliffe, Bernard Montaville, Sarah
Menezes, Alberto Ninio, Thomas Novotny, Valeria Junho Pena, Carol Pertowsky,
Francisco Pinheiro, Richard Skolnik, Morag van Praag, and Diana Weil.



Annex 16
BRAZIL - Disease Surveillance andl Control Project (VIGISUS)
Documents in the Project File
Projeto VIGISUS - "Missao de Preparacao e Negociacao (9tO3/98-13/03/98)".
Procurement Arrangements, Memo to Files, June 4, 1998
Guia para o Manejo Interno de Residuos Solidos em Estabelecimentos de Sau~de.
Health Surveillance and Public Health Laboratories in Brazil - the Final Report of 2 CDC
Missions.
Leduc James W., Communicable Diseases Project (VIGISUS) 1-7 February, 1998.
"Estudo de Impacto na Area de Vigila.ncia Ambiental", Fundacaio Nacional da Sauide.
"A^nalise de Capacidade Institucional de Estados e Municipios para assumirem o
V\IGISUS", Fundacao Nacional da Sauide.
"Regimento Interno", Fundacao Nacional da Saude.
"0 Ministerio da Sauide em Movimento de Transformacao", Fundacao Nacional da
Saude.
"Estrutura Regimental (Decreto No. 2477, de 28.01.98)", Ministerio da Sauide.
"Field Epidemiology Training Programs (FETP)", CDC, October 1994.
"NOB - SUS 01/96", Brasilia 1997.
"NOB No. 1/96" Recife Setembro 1997.
"Mensagem ao Congresso Nacional", Presidente Fernando Henrique Cardoso, 1998.
"Tuberculosis Program Review", World Health Organization, Brazil, July 1994.
"Fact Book FY 1995", Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
"Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project (Report
6837-BR)", World Bank, January 19, 1988.



"Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project, (Report 7535-
BR)", World Bank, April 21, 1989.
"Implementation Completion Report - Brazil - Northeast Endemic Disease Control
Project (Report No. 16694)", World Bank, June 6, 1997.
"Implementation Completion Report - Brazil - Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project
(Report No. 16482)", World Bank, April 10, 1997.
Marier R., "The Reporting of Communicable Diseases", American Journal of
Epidemiology, Vol. 105, 1977.
Thacker Stephen B., Redmond S., Rothenberg R., Spitz S., Choi K., and White M., "A
Controlled Trial of Disease Surveillance Strategies", American Journal of Preventive
Medicine, volume 2, number 6, 1986.
Teutsch S., Thacker S., "Planificaci6n de un sistema de vigilancia en la salud",
Organizaci6n Panamericana de la Salud, Boletin Epidemiol6gico, Vol. 16, No. 1, marzo
1995.
Thacker S., Gibson Parrish R., Trowbridge F., & Surveillance Coordination Group, "A
method for evaluating systems of epidemiological surveillance", World Health Statistics
Quarterly, 1988.
Fleming D.M., Cohen J.M., "Experience of European collaboration in influenza
surveillance in the winter of 1993-1994", Journal of Public Health Medicine, Vol. 18 NO.
2, 1996.
Graitcer P.L., Burton A.H., "The Epidemiologic Surveillance Project: Computer-Based
System for Disease Surveillance", American Journal of Preventive Medicine, volume 3,
number 3, 1987.
Thacker S.B., Choi K., Brachman, P.S., "The surveillance of Infectious Diseases", JAMA,
Vol. 249 No. 9, March 4, 1983.
"WHO Recommended Surveillance Standards", World Health Organization, October
1997.
"Protocol for the Evaluation of Epidemiological Surveillance Systems", World Health
Organization, 1997.



Annex 17
CS:' 1. 074 G.M/MS
Brudlis(DF), July 30, 1998.
Mr. Go"  T. Na laI
Suhseginml of the Wold Bik
SCN Q2 Bloco A, Conj. 303/304 -Ed. Corporate Financial Center
13OliaWDF
Dwr Mr. Nankani:
Tho Government of Brazil has roquested the World Bank's financial suppont
for the Disease Surveillance and Control (ViGISUS) program which is
expected to bc implcmented over a period of about 8 ycars. The objective of
tho progm is to improvo and strengthen  razil's national disease surveillance
and control mystem (NSS) to contribute to reduce mortality and morbidity
reulting from communicable diseases.'The program will consist in three
projects phased over seven yoars that will seek to strengthen the surveillance
system nationally through: (i) the improvement of the data management
telecommunications system; (ii) the rehabilitation of the laboratory inetwork;
Nd (iii) the training of staff. In addition, tho progam would support disease
prevention and control in the Amazon Region and for indigenous populations.
The pro&= will bc imnplemented in thrce phases, the first of which will take
plae from 1999 to 2002. To monitor the implementati6n of the first phase, we
have agreed that the following indicators would be used to moasure progress
towards the establishment of a viable and efficient national surveillance



(i)  at least 50 candiddes would have been trained under the "Basic
Priciples of Outbreak Invstiption" coure;
(hi)  at Iat 200 superior-level and 100 mid-level staff would have
been tmined in laboratory biomfety;
(in) 9 natiosl refortec laboratories would have been rehabilitated
uad equipped;
(iv)  don qad coding standards for the NSS would have been properly
defined; 
(v)  th new notifiable diseases reporting system (SINAN) would be
flly opertonal in at los 20 national or macroregional public
health laboratoies (i.e. that thesc laboratoies have each
establishod a systemn to monitor the timeliness of reporting and
compliance with tarSets set by the ENS for the key notifiable
(vi)  300 indigpnous community health agents would have boen
tained; sa
(vfi) the number of cases of tuberculosis cured in the Amazon Region
would have increaed by at los 10 percent.
The Govemment of Brazil, through this Ministry, clarifies and understands
tha the accoptanmc of support for this phaus of the VIGISUS program does
not nocessarily represent a commitment from the Government nor from the
Bank to contract additional loans towards the aforementioned progam.
Yours shiccrcly,
Ministcr of Hoth, a. i.



Annex 18
Statement of Loans and Credits
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit    Year                Borrower                     -Purpose
No.                                 __                                        IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orne   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 206
Active Loans
BR-PE-35728   IBRD42320   1998   STATE OF BANIA                   BANIA WTR RESOURCES             51.00       0.00           0.00         51.00        0.00      0.00
BR-PE-38895  IBRD43100   1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              FED.WTR MGT                    198.00       0.00           0.00        198.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-38947   IBRD42660   1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             SC. & TECH 3                   155.00       0.00           0.00        155.00       5.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD42110   1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ ST.PRIV.                    250.00       0.00           0.00        125.00      50.00       0.00
BR-PE-40033   IBRD43180   1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS        MG STATE PRIV.                 170.00       0.00           0.00        170.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-42565   IBRD42510   1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                 PARAIBA R.POVERTY               60.00       0.00           0.00         60.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43420  IBRD42920   1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL           WATER S.MOD.2                  150.00       0.00           0.00        150.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43421   IBRD42910   1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.              186.00       0.00           0.00        186.00      10.00       0.00
BR-PE-48357  IBRD42450   1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                CEN.BANK TAL                    20.00       0.00           0.00         20.00         .50      0.00
BR-PE-50162  IBR043110   199e   GOV. OF BRAZIL                    FUNDESCOLAl                     62.50       0.00           0.00         62.50       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-51701 . IBRD42S20   1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                MARANHAO R.POVERTY              80.00       0.00           0.00         80.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6474    IBRD42380   1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO               LAND MGT 3(SP)                  55.00       0.00           0.00         55.00         .67      0.00
BR-PE-6549   IBRD42650   1998   TOG                               GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT           130.00       0.00           0.00        130.00       0.00       0.00
8R-PE-6559    IBRD43120   1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO           (BF-R)SP.TSP                   45.00        0.00           0.00         45.00       2.67       0.00
BR-PE-34578   IBRD41650   1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                RGS HWY MGT                     70.00       0.00           0.00         70.00       7.34       0.00
BR-PE-38896  IBRD41200   1997   STATE OF RGN                      R.POVERTY(RGN)                  24.00       0.00           0.00         21.24       4.14       0.00
BR-PE-39196   IBRD41390   1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU        RGS ST.REFORH                  125.00       0.00           0.00         50.02      20.02       0.00
8R-PE-42566   IBRD41220   1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO              R.POVERTY(PE)                   39.00       0.00           0.00         28.99       3.44       0.00
BR-PE-43868   IBRD41480   1997   STATE OF RGS                     RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY           100.00       0.00           0.00         97.00       11.10      0.00
BR-PE-43871   IBRD41210   1997   STATE OF PIAUI                   (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                30.00       0.00           0.00         24.98        4.28      0.00
BR-PE-43873   IBRD41690   1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                AG TECH DEV.                    60.00       0.00           0.00         55.51       8.83       0.00
BR-PE-46052   IBRD41900   1997                                    CEARA WTR PILOT                  9.60       0.00           0.00          8.92       -.68       0.00
BR-PE-48870  IBRD41890   1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          MT STATE PRIV.                 45.00        0.00           0.00         45.00      16.68       0.00
BR-PE-6475   IBRD41470   1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL               LAND RFM PILOT                 90.00        0.00           0.00         75.05         .89      0.00
BR-PE-6532    IBRD41880   1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               FED HWY DECENTR               300.00        0.00           0.00       285.00       11.67       0.00
BR-PE-6562    IBRD41400   1997   STATE OF BAIIA                   BAHIA MUN.DV                   100.00       0.00           0.00         98.98       8.65       0.00
BR-PE-37828  IBRD40600   1996   STATE OF PARANA                   (PR)R.POVERTY                  175.00      0.00            0.00       158.64       66.07       0.00
BR-PE-40028  IBRD4046A   1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR         RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG          151.48       0.00            0.00       142.62       25.95       0.00
BR-PE-6512   IBRD39240   1996   CVRD                              ENV/CONS(CVRD)                  50.00       0.00           0.00        30.13        7.56       0.00
BR-PE-6547   IBRD3633A   1996   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 METRO TRANSP. RIO               47.48       0.00           0.00        27.02       27.32       0.00
BR-PE-6554    IBRD40470   1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              HLTH SCTR REFORM              300.00        0.00           0.00       261.09       88.58       0.00
BR-PE-35717  IBRD39170   1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BANIA)             105.00       0.00           0.00        61.37        9.39       0.00
BR-PE-38882  IBRD3915A   1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL            RECIFE M.TSP                    98.72       0.00           0.00         98.72      49.05       0.00
BR-PE-38884  IBRD39180   1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.- CEARA               70.00       0.00           0.00        46.81        9.15       0.00
BR-PE-38885   IBRD39190   1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE             36.00        0.00           0.00        20.21        2.00       0.00
BR-PE-6436   IBRD37890   1995   STATE OF CEARA         ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO          140.00        0.00           0.00       103.61       70.27      -5.40
BR-PE-6564   IBRD3916A   1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL               BELO H M.TSP                   83.32        0.00           0.00        78.65       44.36       0.00
BR-PE-6564   IBRD39160   1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL               BELO H M.TSP                    15.68       0.00           0.00           .36      44.36       0.00
BR-PE-6452    IBRD36630   1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION            NE BASIC EDUC III             206.60        0.00           0.00        80.52       60.88       0.00
BR-PE-6522    IBRD37670   1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO             ESP.SANTO WATER               154.00       0.00            0.00        86.36       62.22       0.00
BR-PE-6524   IBRD36390   1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT           150.00       0.00            5.00        34.82       33.13     -2-53
BR-PE-6543   IBRD37330   1994   GOVERNMENT                        M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC          150.00       0.00            0.00        50.41       17.74      0.00
BR-PE-6546   lBRD36S90   1994   GOVERNMENT                        AIDS CONTROL                  160.00       0.00            0.00         5.89        -.03      0.00
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37130   1994   STATE GOVTS                      STE HWY MGT II                 54.00       0.00          18.00         16.30       12.49    -10.00
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37150   1994   STATE GOVTS                      STE HWY MGT II                 79.00       0.00          18.00          7.52       12.49    -10.00
BR-PE-6558    IORD37660   1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               PARANA BASIC EDUC              96.00       0.00           0.00         29.01        1.83      0.00



Difference Between
expected
Origioal Amount in USS Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35470   1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                  STATE HWY MGMT                   50.00       0.00            0.00          3.73       24.02      -2.45
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35480   1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                  STATE HWY MGMT                   38.00       0.00           18.00          3.63       24.02      -2.45
BR-PE-6427    IBRD36040   1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION  -N              NE BASIC EDUC II                212.00       0.00            0.00         53.91       40.58       0.00
BR-PE-6540    IBRD35540   1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                   WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA            145.00       0.00            5.00         20.28       25.27      -7.93
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35030   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)              9.00       0.00            0.00          5.26       77.25       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35040   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            119.00       0.00            0.00         34.02       77.25       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35050   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            117.00       0.00            8.00         29.99       77.25       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD36330   1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                  METRO TRANSP. RIO                81.02       0.00            0.00           .29       27.32       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD3442A   1992   GOVERNMENT                         WATER SECTOR MODERNI             69.62       0.00            0.00         43.23       43.68       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD34425   1992   GOVERNMENT                         WATER SECTOR MODERNI            167.88       0.00            0.00           .46       43.68       0.00
BR-PE-6454    IBRD34440   1992   GOB                                RONDONIA NTRL RES. M            167.00       0.00            0.00         37.01       37.00       0.00
BR-PE-6505    IBRD34920   1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               MATO GROSSO NAT RES             205.00       0.00            0.00         82.02       82.02       0.00
BR-PE-6364    IBRD33750   1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO                  INNOV BASIC ED                 245.00       0.00            0.00         26.63       26.63       0.00
BR-PE-6492    IBRD33760   1991   PETROBRAS               BRAZI      HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO            260.00       0.00            0.00          3.22        3.22       0.00
BR-PE-6446    IBRD31730   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NAT ENVIRONMT                   117.00       0.00            0.00         23.53       23.55       0.00
BR-PE-6453    IBRD31700   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE IRRIG I                      210.00       0.00           69.00         28.67       97.69      28.69
BR-PE-6473    IBRD31600   1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA             LND MQGT II-S. CATAR            33.00       0.00            0.00         .4.05        4.04      -1.94
BR-PE-6370    IBRD30130   1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE IRRI JAIBA                    71.00       0.00            0.00          3.91        3.92       0.00
BR-PE-6414    IBRD30430   1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                  NTRL GAS DIST                    94.00       0.00            0.00          2.66        2.64       0.00
Total                                                                                             7,337.90       0.00          141.00      4,094.75   1,551.04    -14.01
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,116.95          15,767.01           18,883.96
of which has been repaid:               291.92           12,535.05          12,826.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,945.87           3,236,01           10,181.88.
Amount sold                     :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00              45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            4,094.75                4.05           4,098.80
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see 00 13.05. Annex D2. Preparatlon of Implementation Summary IForm 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (NS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Brazfil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                  Disbursed
IFC                        IFC
FY Approval      Company      Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic
y                          y
1973/78/83      CODEMIN          0.00   4.34   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.34   0.00   0.00
1975/96         Oxiteno NE       30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1980/87/97      Ipiranga        40.00   6.32   0.00 150.0   0.00   6.32   0.00   0.00
0
1980/88         OPP               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1980/92         DENPASA            .15   1.00   .12   0.00    .15   1.03   .05   0.00
1981            Brasilpar         0.00   .04   0.00   0.00   0.00   .04   0.00   0.00
1982/84/86      PISA              0.00   3.90   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.90   0.00   0.00
1982/86         Cimento Caue      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1983            SOCOCO            0.00   0.00   2.50   0.00  - 0.00   0.00   2.50   0.00
1984            ALQUIM           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1987/92/96      MBR              10.78   0.00  10.00  11.97  10.78   0.00  10.00  11.97
1987/96         Perdigao         32.81  10.00   0.00  18.00  32.81  10.00   0.00  18.00
1987/96/97      Duratex          22.00   0.00   0.00  78.00  22.00   0.00   0.00  78.00
1987/97         SP Alpargatas    25.00   0.00   5.00   0.00  20.70   0.00   5.00   0.00
1989            ELUMA             0.00   0.00   3.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.00   0.00
1989            Politeno Linear    1.70   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.70   0.00   0.00   0.00
1990            ENGEPOL           1.31   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.31   0.00   0.00   0.00
1990            Ripasa            5.71   5.00   0.00   0.00   5.71   5.00   0.00   0.00
1990/91/92      Bahia Sul        16.43  20.97   0.00   5.00  16.43  20.97   0.00   5.00
1991            Bradesco-AL      26.03   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1991            Bradesco-Bahia    5.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.25   0.00   0.00   0.00
1991            Bradesco-         7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
Eucatex
1991            Bradesco-Petrofl   7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1991            Bradesco-Romi    2.38    .40   0.00   0.00   2.38   .40   0.00   0.00
1991            Rhodia-Ster       8.57   5.95   0.00   0.00   8.57   5.95   0.00   0.00
1992            CRP-Caderi        0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   .75   0.00   0.00
1992/93         TRIKEM            0.00  12.86   0.00   0.00   0.00  12.86   0.00   0.00
1993            BACELL           12.50  10.70   0.00  25.20  12.50  10.70   0.00  25.20
1993            Coteminas         0.00   4.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.00   0.00   0.00
1993            CEBRACTEX         1.80   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.80   0.00   0.00   0.00
1993            Macedo           16.08   0.00   0.00   0.00  16.08   0.00   0.00   0.00
Alimentos
1993            Votorantim       14.29   0.00   0.00   1.14  14.29   0.00   0.00   1.14
1993/96         CEVAL            53.86  20.00   0.00 118.1  53.86  20.00   0.00 118.14
4
1994            GAVEA            10.00   0.00   5.50   0.00  10.00   0.00   5.50   0.00
1994            GP Capital        0.00  16.36   0.00   0.00   0.00  16.32   0.00   0.00
1994            Para Pigmentos    30.00   9.00   0.00  35.00  25.50   9.00   0.00  29.75
1994            Portobello       15.79   5.00   0.00   0.00  15.79   5.00   0.00   0.00



Committed                   Disbursed
IFC                         IFC
FY Approval       Company      Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic
y                           y
1994/95/97       Sadia           50.00  10.00  10.00 200.8   50.00  10.00  10.00 200.88
8
1994/96          CHAPECO         25.00   0.00   0.00   5.00  25.00   0.00   0.00   5.00
1994/96          S.A.I.C.C.       0.00   7.85   6.87   0.00   0.00   7.70   6.87   0.00
1995             Bradesco-Hering    7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995             Brahma - BRA    32.50   0.00   0.00  86.10  32.50   0.00   0.00  86.10
1995             Cambuhy/MC      22.50   0.00   0.00   0.00  22.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995             Lojas Americana   28.00   0.00   5.00  18.00  28.00   0.00   5.00  18.00
1995             LATASA-         15.67   0.00   0.00   3.00  15.67   0.00   0.00   3.00
Brazil
1995             Politeno Ind.   17.54   0.00   0.00   0.00  17.54   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995            Rhodiaco/PTA     25.00   0.00   0.00  24.00  25.00   0.00   0.00  24.00
1995/96/98       Globocabo       35.00  27.97   0.00 118.0  35.00  27.97   0.00 118.00
0
1996             Banco Bradesco   40.00   0.00   0.00  60.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996             Banco Liberal   10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996             Mallory          8.00   3.96   0.00   0.00   8.00   3.96   0.00   0.00
1996             TIGRE           25.00   0.00   5.00  21.36  25.00   0.00   5.00  21.36
1996/97          Lightel         25.00  18.17   0.00   0.00  25.00  18.17   0.00   0.00
1997             Bompreco        25.00   0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             Copesul         40.00   0.00   0.00 180.0  32.00   0.00   0.00 144.00
0
1997             Rodovia         35.00   0.00   0.00  79.50  16.81   0.00   0.00  37.83
1997             Samarco         18.00   0.00   0.00  16.00  18.00   0.00   0.00  16.00
1997             Sucorrico       15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             Wembley          0.00  10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.00   0.00   0.00
1997             Wentex          15.00   0.00   0.00  20.00  15.00   0.00   0.00  20.00
1998             BSC              14.00   0.00   0.00   7.50  14.00   0.00   0.00   7.50
1998             Empesca         25.00   0.00  10.00   0.00   5.00   0.00  10.00   0.00
1998             Saraiva          15.00   3.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   3.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:        966.1  218.7   67.99 1,281. 770.1  217.3   62.92 988.87
5      9            79      3      8
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Eguit  Quasi Partic
1996             AGUAS            17.00  100   0.00  23.00
LIMEIRA
1998             ARTEB           20.00   7.00   0.00  20.00
1998             BANCO ICATU   30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             COPESUL          0.00   0.00   0.00  45.00
BLINC.
1997             CTBC            35.00   0.00   0.00 150.0
0
1996             GLOBOCABO        0.00   0.00   0.00  38.00
II
1997             GUILMAN-        30.00   0.00   0.00  90.00



Committed                    Disbursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval       Company       Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic
y                            y
AMORIM
1998             ICATU EQUlITY    0.00  30.00   0.00   0.00
1997             IPIRANGA          0.00   0.00   5.00   0.00
EXPANS.
1997             IPIRANGA RI       0.00    .32   0.00   0.00
1998             LOJAS            16.00   4.00   0.00   0.00
RENNER
1997             NOVA DUTRA        0.00   0.00   0.00  10.00
BLINC
1996             OXITENO/ETH       0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00
YLO
1998             SANTHER          25.00   0.00  10.00  45.00
1997             SP                0.00   0.00   0.00  30.00
ALPARGATAS
1998             TRIKEM II        25.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998             UNIBANCO         40.00   0.00   0.00 250.0
0
1997             UNIBANCO         50.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
LIVESTO
1998             VARGA            20.00   0.00   3.00  15.00
Total Pending           308.0   47.32  18.00 716.0
Commitment:                           0                     0



Annex 19
Brazil at a glance                                                             ,
Lain   Uppe
POVERTY N  SOCIAL                                           Amolde
razil  & Ct    Ineomn         Development diamod
Popon mid-1996 (muons)                              1612        485      479
GNP per apIt 19 (O.1S8)                             4.380      3,710    4.540               1.
GNP  1906 (9    1$)                                 70.9       1.799    2,173
Ave        annual rowth, 139646
Popa N (If)                                           IA         1.7      1.5     G                                G
Labofra)                                              1.5        2.3      1.8      GNP                             Gross
Mostuuoentesnate (b ytevra 1b9Ml9)                                                 aenml\et
Poverty: hbeednt he (W Of,Wd*DnJ                       17
UMan popodtn (% IOf11lpoPe111n)                        78        74       73
nl *mlexpecksicy at ,OOD & )                           67        60       69
Cbat m I tafty ue 1,00 he ..)                                    3.              to   so _
CI'JdmWrA*bn (%fof divwumdr 4                         Is
ces b s  wakr   % dpepullon                            92        30       66
1Uls ra      dopopiSbnp el.)                           17        13       13
Grmss ptrln enimnen "W d ofl.ege pape*bon)            114       110      107
F_-                                                  -. ..pNud.~cm ..
Femmle                                                                         __________________
KEY ECONOMC RATIOS ad LONG-TERN TRENDS
1376    1#5        ION      13
EconkomIc ratios
GDP (bns USt)                              121.0   22Z9       716.9    74.7
G3nSS dome_H. invehOinenWDP                 26.8     19.2       20.1     19.5
Esof  of goods and swviceWGoP                7.5     12.2        6.7      66             Opnns of 
Groes doesc savlWgaIDP                      22.9    24.4        19.2     16.2
Gres natonal sNgelGtP                       21.1     19.3       17.6     16.3
Current ac.unt blanoeGDP                     .6.6    .02        -2.5     -3.2
Intet peymWetlGOP                             1.7     3.3        1.2      1.7     Sa^s 7g                     Investment
Tol debJGDP                                  22.4    46.6       22.2     23.5
Totl debt evloacta                          43.6 '   39.1       43.1     46.7
Pren vWlue of debtlGDP                         ..      ..       22.1
Present value of dbepot                        ..              270.7                          I
17545  1            1         1      131746
(averg anua rWth)                                                                     -B     Srazi
GOP                                  3.1     1.2      4.1        2.0      4.6
GNP per capla                        0.2      0.4      2.8       1.6      4.0               Uwerm      nrd
Export of goods and svis            10.6     8.5      -1.4       6.1      7.0    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975    138         I338     am       Owth19  16U  f 1outputa nd _nvestu )
Agriculture                                  12.1     1 1.5     14.4     14.4    is
Industry                                     40.2    45.3       36.5     36.4    to
Manufachtn                                 30.3    33.7       23.6        ..      *
Services                                     47.7    43.1       49.1     49.2      e
Private consumpton                           86.5    65.6       64.9     65.7    .10 I
Genrl govemnm consumption                    10.6      9.9      15.9      16.1
Import of goods and sevIcs                   11.5      7.1       7.8      7.9                                  O
137646  1384          1335     133
(Average annual I                                                                 Growi ras of expoGtn and bImpou  (%)
Agrlciture                                    4.3      28        4.9      3.1    0o
Industry                                      3.0    -1.1        2.1      2.3
Manufacturing                               2.6    -1.5        2.1        ..        .
Servke                                        2.9      2.8       5.3      3,3
Prtate consumption                            3.0     1.8       11; 0     4.1 o
General govemment onsumption                  1.2      0.7       2.4      0.8 63    94 "                                a
Gro  domestic ivstmnt                        -2.9    -0.8        9.4      0.0    40
Import of goods and services                  4.0     8.9       36.8      5.9                   Ev"
Gross national product                        2.5      1.1       4.2      2.9                   E
Note: 1996 dat are preeieninary estimates. Figure in lWlics ar for yers other thn toe speqfled.
* The dwsmonds show four key inditors in the country (in bold) compared with It inome-group avere. If data am mesing, the diamrond wi
be incomplee



Brazil
IUCES nd VW   VE6 JaN  FNOE
1978     1I        100      lo
Coewe pIa63.0   226.9                                           7A       15.5    ,
Imptc GDP dekaw                             33.9   231.7       74.0      11.1    ___
CumaIevJS                                      .        -      315       32A                                     s         so
PM" vhmMdwbk                                   ..      ..        0.4     -0.1
OPIloe1 _uame                                  ..       -       .4.0     43.9
TRADE
U78t  INS         100   tU...N
(Ian USS                                                                            a"d hip kw"s (mI USS
To et oris (fob)                               ..  25.63     46,606   47,746
Coffee                                       ..   2607       1,1170    2060
Owfood                                      ..   2.45       3.86    4.665
am*cu                        ,          ,         1336    25,6    21.247   *_
Ttl Nd )                                       ..  13.153    40,663   63.*66
Fd                                           ..      ..    3.535    6.044       um        L
Fue and    gy                                ..   6,176      4.64     5.752
Capi goodt                                        2.480    10.66    19i4104
E:vputptsWu.17m100)                            *       07       123      126            s       1    Is    03  0     3 " 
lnowt P401bidm(1067u100)                       .      7         124      125                   *ft    *Nte
T em of   (1& 67 u10                                  123      *103      101
SALANCE oFPA_Y__E
(,, S L1Io                                                w               C     t account banc *t GDP n   %)
EX    D goo    d erdvis                    9.41S   27.713    47.060   49.56 S
Impors of good  nd ervIs                  14.2      62       14,306   50.355
Rpiue   boe                               -4.S00    10.785    4.346   4,797
Not' m                                     . -2.106  -11.213   -15,410  -17.402  *
Hot acrt  tavs                               -10      1i      3.973    2,309   
before dfficial capiw henelers           -7,021    -412   -17?.702  -24.300
F    hwk  MM (nrz -m                                IANf      3 0,7711   32.f3   4 
C4ange hi not ress                         1,065   -1A414   -12.007   4.638    .4
Ree        dudigPMd(MR USS                 4.166   11i.13    51.460   509.66
Comion ret fhoeM/8)                       3.0E-12  2.3E50        0.0      1.0
EXTERNAL OE8T an RESOURCE FLOWN
(nVlon USS)                                                                       Cpmobun of tta ddeK 103 (mKL USit
Total deb ouw t       an dbued             V7.32   103.601   159.130  178.131                      A       C
IBRD                                     1,045    5.24       6.036    5,676              a                D42
IDA                                          0        0         0        0                                   1
TotCa dewt deqee 4n320   11.470    22l328
lBOR                                        St      706      1,866    1.638                                  9
IDA                                          0        0         0        0
Foreig                                   1.0      1.48       485         ..              > 1          4 5
Copalnof neot re.ourwc fine
Oftllciagunts                                I       24        64
Officreditors         *                   1.059     9s5    -1,378
PMae coddbs                              4,213      149      0.927
Fmin d00inwthmn                          1,302    1,345      4,859       .
PorVtio oqulty                               0        0      4,411       ..                       F
Wodd Bank prgm
Corfmn1ents                                538    1.525       404       so       A.-IRD                     E-Bla"
OWburwnwnta                                249      765       636     1,500        .        - O a w  n_d pp F-P
pricpa rpayenlt                             26      406      1,377    1,222      C-IMF                      G - Srdoen
Netave                                     224      359       -530     278
Inbtt psyment                               72      391       491      416
N0t tukfer                                 152       32     -1.031     -138
oe'eo_it Ec4mios                                                                                                   L)28R7



