                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30536

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-37870)

                                           ON A

                           STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                         BOLIVIA

                                          FOR A

                                  BO Social Safety Net SAC




                                      December 16, 2004




Human Development Department
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Perú - LC6
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                        100 Bs. = US$ 12.5
                      US$ 1.00 = Bs. 8.01

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   David de Ferranti
             Country Director:     Marcelo Giugale
               Sector Director:     Ana-María Arriagada
               Sector Manager:     Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Manuel Salazar

                                           BOLIVIA
                                 BO Social Safety Net SAC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8 Borrowers Comments (Original)                                            36

Project ID: P082700                                                  Project Name: BO Social Safety Net SAC
Team Leader: Manuel Salazar                                          TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BO Social Safety Net SAC                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-37870
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (50%); Health (30%); General education sector
                            (20%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Child health (P);
                            Population and reproductive health (P); Education for all (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/21/2003                                     Effective:                           06/26/2003
     Appraisal: 05/05/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/17/2003                                      Closing:                            06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF ECONOMY/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Chris Chamberlin                               Chris Chamberlin
Team Leader at ICR:             Manuel Salazar
ICR Primary Author:             Manuel Salazar


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1        Original Objective:

Background

In the mid 1980s, Bolivia implemented an effective stabilization program to control hyperinflation. Since
then, Bolivia has carried out major structural reforms that opened and liberalized the economy,
transferred state-owned enterprises to the private sector, improved education and health services,
reformed the pension system, and promoted the administrative decentralization of the Government. In
1987, Bolivia created the first social investment fund in a developing country to promote the generation
of temporary employment in public transportation and social infrastructure investments. Bolivia was one
of the first countries to qualify for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC), a
pioneer in the application of the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF)1 , and one of the first
countries to prepare a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

During most of the 1990s, Bolivia sustained solid economic performance primarily as a result of these
structural reforms and important capital inflows. Between 1990-98, annual GDP growth reached an
average of 4.4 percent and inflation was reduced to less than 4 percent.

After 1998, severe adverse external and internal shocks affected the country, causing a strong downturn
in economic activity. Average annual GDP growth declined to less than 2 percent between 1999-2002,
leading to an increase in: (i) the fiscal deficit (from 3.4 percent of the GDP in 1999 to 9 percent of the
GDP in 2002), (ii) unemployment (from 5 percent in 1997 to 9 percent in 2002) and underemployment
(which affects half the work force), and (iii) inequality in income distribution (the latest estimation of the
Gini coefficient was 0.62 social exclusion, and social unrest. The external shocks included: (a) the
economic crisis in Russia and in the Southeast Asian countries that led to a reduction of capital inflows
and deterioration in the terms of trade, (b) recession in the Bolivian regional trading partner countries,
which reduced both the demand for its exports and the remittances of its citizens living abroad,
particularly in Argentina, (c) exchange rate devaluations in Argentina, Brazil, and Chile that affected the
competitiveness of Bolivian tradable production, and (d) climatic shocks and natural disasters associated
with El Niño and La Niña, which affected crop production and transportation infrastructure. The internal
factors that affected the economy included: (a) implementation of Government programs to eradicate
coca production and reform the customs administration, which reduced income in the informal sector of
the economy, (b) application of tighter and prudent financial standards that diminished banks' loan
portfolios, and (c) conclusion of capitalization programs that led to the reduction of direct foreign
investment. Beyond these external and internal shocks, electoral uncertainty during the first semester of
2002 led to the withdrawal of bank deposits and increased social conflict surrounding the "water war,"                                        3


blockades in the Altiplano in 2000 and coca blockades in 2001 and 20024.
_______________________
1The Comprehensive Development Framework advocates a holistic long-term strategy; the country in the lead, both "owning" and
directing the development agenda, with the Bank and other partners each defining their support in their respective business plans;
stronger partnerships among governments, donors, civil society, the private sector, and other development stakeholders in implementing
the country strategy; and a transparent focus on development outcomes to ensure better practical success in reducing poverty.

2 De Ferranti, et alia, 2004.

 Civil strikes and riots in Cochabamba against private operation of water supply systems and tariff adjustments, resulting in the
3


Government's decision to reverse the process.

4
   Blockades in the Altiplano in 2000: Blockades of roads made by the CSUTCB that paralyzed the department of La Paz, demanding the
attention of local necessities: capital assets for the production (tractors), infrastructure of irrigation, schools and hospitals, (blockades of
roads conducted by the Federations of Coca growers of Chapare in Cochabamba, against the eradication Government policies of the
cocaine and the limitation of commercialization of cocaine leaves.




                                                                     - 2 -

Finally, the implementation of pension reform since late 1990s was also a factor in increasing the fiscal
deficit since the fiscal costs were higher than anticipated. While the estimated retirement Pay As You
Go system expenditure as a share of the GDP was expected to decrease from 2.9 percent in 1997 to 2.6
percent in 2002, the actual value rose from 3.1 to 4.5 percent, respectively. The main reasons for this
increase, among others, were (i) specific agreements with key groups (e.g., Military, Police, Judicial); (ii)
an under-estimation of new retirees from the old system; and (iii) other factors including excess
expenditures and poor institutional arrangements.

The decline in economic activity that started in 1999 affected progress in poverty reduction and
addressing social inequality while putting pressure on the fiscal accounts. On social issues, frustration
and impatience about the high levels of poverty and inequality in income distribution grew, generating
opposition to the Government's structural reforms. Politically, there was growing dissatisfaction about
the coalitions of political parties, lack of transparency, corruption, and perceived inefficiency in
Government administration.

By early 2003, both the fiscal situation and the level of liquidity in the National Treasury (Tesoro General
de la Nación) had become critical. The fiscal deficit had increased from 6.5 percent of the GDP in 2001
to 9 percent of the GDP in 2002, as a result of the high costs of the pension reform and unplanned public
sector salary increases, the reduction of fiscal revenues, and lower revenues from the policy of freezing
domestic hydrocarbon prices. In an attempt to stabilize the situation, the GOB tried to reduce the fiscal
deficit in its draft 2003 national budget to Congress, the PGN (Presupuesto General de la Nación), which
included measures to increase taxes (creation of personal income tax) and reduce public expenditures
(affecting current expenditures, including those of the police and the armed forces). The proposal led to
serious social conflicts in February 2003, resulting in more than 30 deaths.

Until this crisis, Bolivia had sustained improvements in its social indicators. For example, the illiteracy
rate fell from 20 percent in 1992 to 13 percent in 2001; nearly complete universal primary education was
achieved, reaching a net enrollment of 97 percent in 2001 (an increase of 23 percentage points since
1992); elementary school (8th grade) completion rates increased from 55.4 percent in 1992 to 71.5
percent in 2001; the infant mortality rate declined from 89 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1989 to 54 in
2002; the professional care of deliveries increased from 25 percent in 1994 to 54 percent in 2002; and
health care coverage of pneumonia in children under age 5 rose from 25 percent to almost 100 percent
in the same period. These and other improvements in Bolivia's social indicators were accompanied by
increases in social public spending from 12.4 percent of the GDP in 1995 to 20.3 percent of the GDP in
2002.

The protection of these improvements in social indicators became one of the Government's highest
priorities after the crisis. In April 2003, the Government agreed to a Stand-By Agreement with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) that would last through July 2004 and provide a framework to
guarantee macroeconomic stability, give continuity to the reforms, and promote international support.
The Government's IMF-supported program aimed to reduce the fiscal deficit to 6.5 percent of the GDP
through a new tax code, tax regularization, and increased prices for hydrocarbons. These measures
would be accompanied by a 10 percent reduction of overall public spending and increased external
financing and grants. These actions were incorporated into the 2003 PGN, which was approved in April
2003.

Original Objectives:

In June 2003, the International Development Association (IDA) responded to the Government of Bolivia's
(GOB) request for support to respond to this crisis through a two-tranche Social Safety Net Structural
Adjustment Credit (SSNSAC) for SDR 25.4 million (US$35.0 million equivalent).                 This Structural
Adjustment Credit aimed to support the Government's near-term program of fiscal adjustment and
provision of vital social safety net services. Its objectives were to help the Government to close a
financing gap in 2003; expand the provision of social services during the period of fiscal adjustment;
contain erosion in social outcomes for the poor; and address the economic underpinnings of rising social
tensions.




                                                    - 3 -

The SSNSAC was structured to sustain and, where appropriate, advance the major reform initiatives of
the Government in the specific areas of: (i) emergency employment (workfare), (ii) decentralization and
municipal development, (iii) mother and child insurance, and health program decentralization, (iv)
education reform and the expansion of primary education, and (v) national budget management for
increasing social sector expenditures and their counter-cyclical content.

The credit established three specific operational objectives: (i) protect the budgets of nine important
social protection programs (workfare, health, and education programs), that were subject to high volatility
in investment budgets and were key to maintaining social outcomes and achieving counter-cyclical
goals; (ii) sustain and, in some areas, strengthen key social sector reforms that were pro-poor and
provide safety net services; (iii) provide technical support to protected social safety net programs over
the bridging period (June 2003 to March 2004)5

Assessment:

The objectives of this credit were clear, important, and timely. They were considered essential for the
country to maintain the continuity of its social reform programs while undertaking the necessary fiscal
adjustment outlined in the 2003 national budget, in a delicate economic, social, and political
environment. The credit provided an opportunity to mitigate the negative impact of the short-term fiscal
adjustment and make it more gradual, so it could be more politically and socially acceptable.

The SSNSAC was consistent with Bolivia's June 2001 PRSP, which included the following goals among
its strategic components: (i) improve the quality of primary education and preventive health services, (ii)
increase the security and protection and reduce social and economic risks of the poor through improved
management of health care, access to education and income transfers, and (iii) promote equity for
indigenous peoples and women.                Thus, the SSNSAC coincided with the Government's strategy to
mitigate social tensions and strengthen its capacity to respond to crisis through social safety nets, such
as the national workfare program (Programa Nacional de Empleo de Emergencia, PLANE) and
reestablish payment of the BONOSOL6 to people over age 65.

At that time in 2003, the Government intended to review the PRSP, based on the inputs from the third
National Dialogue (a process of broad dialogue between government and representatives of different
actors from civil society around key policy issues, including those related to the poverty reduction
strategy), and present a pro-poor, medium-term growth strategy to the international community at the
Consultative Group scheduled for October 2003. The revised PRSP was expected to prioritize further
improvement of social services in areas related to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), such as
the reduction in maternal and child mortality, and primary education. Most of these planned events were
delayed by the political crisis in October 2003.

This structural adjustment credit was not specifically mentioned in the May 1998 Country Assistance
Strategy, yet its objectives were fully consistent with the 2001 PRSP and it contributed to the following
two CAS pillars: (i) "equity" through promoting the continuity of improvements in health and education
services and reorienting the assignment of public spending toward pro-poor activities, and (ii)
"opportunity" through promoting the creation of jobs and income generation, especially for the poorest.
The objectives were also consistent with IDA's strategy for supporting Bolivia in managing the 2003
crisis. First, as established in the CAS Progress Report to the Executive Directors (May 2003), which
anticipated the inclusion of fast disbursing policy-based adjustment operations, the SSNSAC would
provide a "bridge" to 2004 by helping the Government to maintain economic and social stability until it
could set in motion a medium-term development strategy. Second, it would support the GOB to pursue
medium-term development objectives, including the completion of the review of its PRSP and the
preparation of the Public Expenditure Review (PER). The strategy supporting the SSNSAC was also
included in the new 2004 CAS.

_____________________



5 The bridging period was 9 to10 months during which stability, both social and fiscal, was expected to be restored, and the foundations
for medium term reform put in place.

6 The BONOSOL (Bono Solidario) program was created in 1996 to pay a life annuity to all Bolivians over age 21 on December 31, 1995,
when they reach the age of 65. BONOSOL coverage is universal. Resources from the privatization processes fund the program.




                                                                 - 4 -

Other multilateral and bilateral development agencies also planned to accelerate disbursements for
budgetary support in 2003 to support the Government's adjustment program and to promote priority
social protection programs and the review of the PRSP. The SSNSAC was an integral part of the
international community's larger effort.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during implementation. However, in order to close the 2003 financial
gap, the Government requested and IDA agreed to disburse the second tranche of the credit sooner than
anticipated. A waiver of some of the conditions was required, allowing for additional time to complete
the conditions. The assessment supporting this decision showed solid evidence that the actions needed
to meet these conditions were part of the Government's agenda and in the process of being implemented
(see Section 4.1).

3.3 Original Components:
The credit consisted of four components:

A. Budget Protection

This component provided for the approval of the 2003 PGN, consistent with the macroeconomic
stabilization program, and included specific amounts needed to protect the operation of nine key social
safety net programs. Table 1 in Section 4.2 presents the programs to be protected and the amounts
budgeted. As a condition for credit effectiveness, it was agreed that before the second tranche release,
the Government would implement the 2003 budgets at agreed levels: meeting 85 percent of the planned
overall social protected budget and target levels for implementing at least seven of the nine programs in
the package. These targets are also provided in Table 1.

B. Social Protection ­ Workfare

The Social Protection component provided for the implementation of the Government's program to
create large-scale temporary employment through community-based projects in urban and rural areas
(second phase of the workfare program, PLANE II). As a condition of effectiveness, the central agency
responsible for the social funds and the workfare program (Directorio Unico de Fondos, DUF) would
contract an administrator for PLANE II, and other job recruitment intermediaries for implementing about
2,500 projects. Before the second tranche release, PLANE II was to create at least 300,000 temporary
jobs of one-month in duration.

The component also provided for actions to enhance the quality and effectiveness of employment
programs. The DUF was to revise, by credit effectiveness, technical guides for program operation,
outlining: (i) environmental safeguards and monitoring measures; (ii) prioritization criteria for the
selection of subprojects; and (iii) the agreed wage rate. Before the second tranche release, the DUF was
to: (i) sign a contract for the audit of the financial operations of PLANE II; and (ii) issue terms of
reference for and the first progress report of the evaluation of the impact of the program.

Finally, the component called for the National Fund for Productive and Social Investment (FPS - Fondo
Nacional para Productividad e Inversión Social) to adjust selected conditions of the matching grants to
local governments and promote municipal projects that would be implemented during periods of crisis.
The conditions of credit effectiveness were: (i) the National Council of Economic and Social Policies
(CONAPES ­ Consejo Nacional de Políticas Económicas y Sociales) planned to issue a resolution
containing new and reduced rates of municipal counterpart financing, and (ii) the FPS planned to
implement regulations on these new rates. Before the second tranche release, the FPS planned to
complete a study on additional options for increased financing of labor-intensive projects.

C. Health Sector Reform

This component would contribute to enhancing management of the health sector, improving equity in
critical services and opening access to traditionally deprived segments of the population. The Ministry of



                                                    - 5 -

Health would sign performance agreements with nine health services at departmental level (SEDES -
Servicios Departamentales de Salud) in 2003 as an initial step to improving results. In addition, the
following actions were required to ensure that the benefits of the mother/child insurance program (Seguro
Unico Materno Infantil, SUMI) would reach the poorest: (i) issuance of a law creating the SUMI program,
and (ii) issuance of the implementing regulations, establishing operational procedures on service fees (
costos de prestación) and transfers to municipalities. Before release of the second tranche, the Ministry
of Health would issue further regulations specifying procedures allowing SUMI to reimburse
transportation costs incurred by the rural poor in accessing secondary and tertiary health care.

In addition, to protect the rights of pregnant women and empower indigenous groups in this regard, the
Ministry of Health would issue a Bill of Rights (Carta de Derechos de la Mujer Embarazada) as a
condition of credit effectiveness.

D. Education Sector Reform

This component sought to consolidate a decade of reforms by supporting the Ministry of Education in
elaborating and adopting the Sectoral Strategic Plan (PES - Plan Estratégico Sectorial), with an
emphasis on a policy response to declining school enrollments and increasing the attendance of children
from the poorest income quintile. As a condition of credit effectiveness, it was anticipated that the
Ministry of Education would issue a technical proposal describing the timetable for consultations with the
National Congress for Education on the long-term PES, which would include the terms of reference for
an empirical analysis of school attendance and enrollment, establishing objectives, scope, and expected
outputs. Before second tranche release, the draft PES, incorporating recommendations for addressing
any adverse trends in enrollment and attendance of poor children, would be presented by the Ministry of
Education for consideration by the National Congress for Education.

Assessment

The four components were consistent with and supported the achievement of the SSNSAC's objectives.
The budgetary protection for nine social programs (Component A) was justified since their funding was
very volatile, subject to budgetary constraints during periods of low fiscal revenues, and tended toward
pro-cyclic performance. The following criteria were used in the selection of the nine protected programs:
(i) the potential for counter cyclical performance, (ii) the potential for promoting direct benefits to the
poor, with sufficient coverage for a significant number of beneficiaries, (iii) program implementation that
was verifiable and included in the national budget, (iv) the potential to promote income generation for the
poor and protect them from possible losses in health and education, (v) programs in which the provision
of basic social services would not be interrupted during crisis periods, and (vi) consistency with criteria
outlined in the PRSP.

The Social Protection Component (Component B) sought to implement the PLANE program (workfare)
by providing continuity, improving both efficiency and the operational procedures in the selection of
projects, and establishing transparency. The PLANE program, established in 2001 and implemented in
2002, was conceived as a counter cyclical policy to reduce the impact of income reduction and loss of
employment for the most vulnerable populations. PLANE financed unskilled labor in projects related to
community development, maintenance of tertiary local roads, and improvement of streets. The program
targeted its impact toward the poor population by remunerating workers at levels comparable to the
minimum wage (Bs. 480 per month, equivalent to US$60 at that time). During its first phase, more than
half of PLANE's beneficiaries were women. However, at the beginning of 2003, the Government had
decided to discontinue the PLANE program due to lack of financial resources. Thus, the preparation of
the SSNSAC played an important role in ensuring the program's continued operation during a critical
period.

In addition, the Social Protection Component intended to expand the potential for income generation of
the poorest population and promote short-term alternatives to PLANE by supporting improvements in the
social funds (Fondo de Inversión Productiva y Social, FPS). This strategy, included in the National




                                                    - 6 -

Compensation Policy (PNC)7 sought to adjust the matching grant scheme for financing local sub-projects,
by reducing matching funds from municipalities and promoting more labor-intensive programs at the
local level. The idea was to seek an increase in the flow of investment funds to municipalities, based on
the National Compensation Policy, requiring fewer matching funds from the municipalities in the FPS
projects. Furthermore, the FPS would study the viability of financing more labor-intensive investment
projects.

The Health Sector Reform Component sought to bring continuity and strength to the sector reforms. In
particular, it intended to consolidate the use of performance agreements signed between the department
level health services (SEDES) and the Ministry of Health, reconcile departmental and national priorities,
improve performance evaluation of health services, and improve planning of health services at local
level. It also sought to support the mother/child insurance program (SUMI) and improve access of poor
families to health services, especially to the secondary and tertiary levels, by financing transport costs.
As mentioned above, the reform also included the Bill of Rights for pregnant women, issued by the
Ministry of Health.

With the conclusion of the Educational Reform Program (PRE - Programa de Reforma Educativa)
launched in 1994, the Education Sector Reform Component of the SSNSAC intended to promote the
preparation and discussion of the new medium-term PES for education. The PES was considered
fundamental to maintaining the PRE's educational and institutional achievements in primary education
and expanding the reform to other sub-sectors, such as secondary education. The new plan would be
based on the guidelines of the PRSP and the Education for All Initiative and would address: (i) coverage
goals in secondary education "the new reform priority" and identification of risk groups, in addition to
goals for tertiary, technical, and non-formal education, (ii) guidelines to develop the sector's capacity in
training and administration, and (iii) actions to respond to the reduction in school enrollment rates and
drop-out rates, especially of the poorest children during the economic crisis.                             The PES would be
presented to the National Education Congress, for discussion within the sector and with representatives
from civil society, and would become the basic instrument for mobilizing financing for the sector from the
international community in the coming years.

Collectively, the four components were supportive of the program's overall objective.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not substantially revised during implementation. However, as mentioned above
and described in greater detail in Section 4.1, there were delays in compliance with some of the actions
due to the change in Government, following social disturbances in October 2003. Due to these delays
and the 2003 financial gap, the second tranche was rescheduled and released with a waiver for some
conditions.      Nevertheless, the components remained and the Government agenda, still under
implementation, addresses the completion of all those pending actions and conditions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The credit was well conceived and its objectives and components were consistent with the
GOB's priorities, the PRSP, and IDA's interim assistance strategy for Bolivia, in response to the 2003
crisis, as outlined in the May 2003 CAS Progress Report. The operation was also based on extensive
knowledge of Bolivia's social sectors developed over several years of cooperation between the
Government and IDA, both through lending and non lending assistance vehicles. The credit was not
overly complex in terms of implementation, especially considering the large experience of Bolivian
agencies in implementing IDA-financed operations.                       Its design also incorporated good technical
practices, including: (i) the introduction of budgetary protection goals, emphasizing results-oriented
approaches, (ii) follow-up on the signing of annual performance agreements in the health sector between
the Ministry of Health and the SEDES; and (iii) reliance on consultative processes with stakeholders in
the social sector.
_______________________
7
  The PNC is a matching grant system administered by the social fund (FPS), in which allocation of resources is based on unmeet basic
needs at the municipal level.




                                                               - 7 -

Project preparation and design required intense consultations with the various public sector entities
involved in the social protection programs, including: Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, DUF/FPS,
and the Ministry of Finance. The lessons learned from other projects were also incorporated, primarily
those derived from implementation of reforms of the health and education sectors, including: (i) the
Government's involvement and commitment is fundamental for the program's success, (ii) programs
should be simple to administer and supervise, (iii) the program's objectives should be well defined and
be clear to all the participants, (iv) there should be agreement on the outcome indicators that will be used
to evaluate performance, and (v) successful implementation requires a certain amount of administrative
flexibility.

IDA recognized the risk factors that could affect the implementation of the SSNSAC. The economic,
social, and political situation was identified as being unstable and a potential risk to the execution of the
social safety net programs.         The overall strategy, however, assumed that the costs of the crisis,
especially on the poorest, would be much higher if immediate actions were not adopted to promote social
protection, pro-poor counter cyclical social expenditure and investment, and generation of employment
opportunities, within a framework of concerted effort by donors from the international community. The
overall country risks would be addressed through flexibility and responsiveness during the "bridging"
transition period (June 2003 to March 2004), while the National Dialogue would be intensified and the
PRSP would be revised, to be able to implement medium-term objectives.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The SSNSAC supported the Government in its short-term fiscal program, helping to close
the fiscal "gap" in 2003.       The first US$25.0 million equivalent disbursement in June 2003 and the
advance of the second disbursement of US$10.0 million equivalent at the end of calendar year 2003
were essential to addressing this objective. Furthermore, the credit became a "bridge" to maintain and
promote the reforms and programs in social protection, education, and health during the extremely
difficult economic, political, and social context experienced by the country in 2003, which brought about
constitutional change of the Government administration.

In April 2003, the Government and the IMF reached a Stand-By Agreement, initially programmed
through July 2004, with budgetary support financing in the amount of US$123.0 million. At the beginning
of October 2003, the IMF completed the second review of the agreement and approved the programmed
disbursement of US$15.0 million, leading to a cumulative disbursement of nearly US$92.0 million, upon
satisfactory implementation of the agreed economic program.

A profound social and political crisis in October of that year led to confrontations that caused more than
50 deaths and forced the resignation of President Sánchez de Lozada. The subsequent constitutional
succession led Vice President Mesa to assume the Presidency, acquiring the fundamental task of
reestablishing social peace and responding to immediate challenges, such as the definition of the natural
gas export policy. The SSNSAC did not have the leverage to stop a huge political crisis that included the
resignation of the President, the change of most Ministries, and a full budgetary revision. However, this
credit had even a more relevant role under such circumstances, both to guarantee that the social
agenda, largely based on the commitments included in the credit, was kept, and to support the new
Government's political stability.

President Mesa's strategy was by necessity based on short- and medium-term considerations,
addressing factors that had spurred the unrest. In the short term, the Government's priorities addressed
three political objectives: (i) review of the Hydrocarbons Law (its discussion in the National Congress was
programmed for the last quarter of 2004), (ii) the Referendum on export of natural gas (carried out on
July 18, 2004, with positive results to export natural gas), and (iii) the Constitutional Assembly to modify
the Constitution (programmed for the first semester of 2005). In addition, the Government sought to
achieve the following economic objectives: (i) reestablish macroeconomic stability, (ii) redirect public



                                                      - 8 -

spending toward social programs that respond to the underlying factors of social conflicts, and (iii)
re-launch the institutional reform program and efforts against corruption.

The new Government prioritized IDA support to ensure economic stability, especially due to the strong
fiscal burdens at the end of the calendar year. Continuity in the delivery of basic social services and
strengthening its social protection network, both supported by the SSNSAC, became even more relevant
and needed. For the medium term, after the Constitutional Assembly in early 2005, the Government
would propose to: (i) strengthen social peace and focus on solving problems of inequity, exclusion, and
poverty, (ii) formulate a revised PRSP and, with the consensus of civil society through the National
Dialogue processes, emphasize the achievement of the MDGs, and (iii) establish a fiscal agreement. All
of these priorities were consistent with those of the credit.

In mid-October 2003, the Government presented its revised PRSP to the international community at the
Consultative Group Meeting. Among other aspects, the medium-term PRSP focused on the integration
of counter-cyclical policies and implementation of policies promoting universal coverage of health and
education services. Furthermore, the PRSP proposed to establish a national social safety net, defining
the responsibilities and functions of the institutions that provide services to social groups at risk. The
Government is currently preparing a new revised PRSP, which should be presented to the international
community at the Consultative Group in February 2005.

The SSNSAC helped to maintain a comprehensive social protection program, even under highly
unstable political circumstances generated by the increasing social unrest that precipitated the sudden
change of Government in October 2003, thus protecting the vulnerable population from further negative
impact. The credit also provided major support to the new Government's agenda, and aimed to increase
political stability and improve financial stability. The key social programs supported under the SSNSAC
were precisely those that were needed to improve the well being of the poorest groups and reduce social
unrest, including: (i) extending infant and maternal health services coverage through SUMI; (ii)
consolidating performance agreements between the Ministry of Health and nine SEDES; and (iii)
improving access to health services by promoting an intercultural approach, implementing of the Bill of
Rights for Pregnant Women, and reimbursing transportation costs to reach health units in some very
poor rural areas.

Budget protection for US$94.5 million, included in the credit, supported Government actions to improve
living conditions of those groups most affected by the prolonged crisis. Through this mechanism, key
protected programs in health, education, and social protection reached an average implementation rate
of 88 percent, well above the average of the total public spending (78 percent).          Thus, the credit
promoted counter-cyclical mechanisms for implementing the 2003 national budget, favoring pro-poor
spending and investments.

The implementation of the second stage of the workfare program (PLANE II), also supported by the
SSNSAC, mitigated the adverse effects of higher unemployment.               PLANE II, consolidated as a
counter-cyclical mechanism, created 341,000 temporary jobs, well above the goal of 300,000 set by the
Government, addressing some of the most critical underpinnings of rising social unrest.               The
implementation of PLANE demonstrated the need for a more structural counter-cyclical mechanism to
address the needs of vulnerable groups in a timely and adequate manner.               As a first step, the
Government created the Social Safety Network (Red de Protección Social, see below) in January 2004.

Because of the political and social tensions, Bolivia's fiscal burdens increased in 2002-03, largely as a
result of declining revenues and higher expenditures. The fiscal deficit was 8.1 percent of the GDP at
the end of 2003. External financing became fundamental to close the country's fiscal deficit and ensure
economic stability. During this crisis, IDA provided critical financial assistance to close the fiscal gap
with the following measures: (i) disbursement of US$35.0 million from the SSNSAC, (ii) disbursement of
US$25.0 million from the Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization (PSAC
II), (iii) disbursement of US$14.0 million under the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit, and (iv) the
restructuring of US$17.0 million from the existing IDA portfolio.




                                                      - 9 -

By Government request, IDA advanced the disbursement of the second tranche under the SSNSAC,
originally programmed for the first semester of 2004. This advance required approval of two waivers
(the first related to the execution of budgets for protected programs and the second the timing of the
presentation of the Strategic Education Plan, PES) and a partial waiver (the timing of the impact
assessment of the PLANE II). These activities were programmed to be carried out at the end of 2003 or
beginning of 2004, but had not been completed when the decision to seek the waivers needed to be
made. Subsequently, all but one of these condition were accomplished (presentation of the PES), yet
the Government is fully committed to the Second National Congress for Education, which is scheduled
for late January 2005.

The decision to advance the release of the second tranche was a recognition of Bolivia's efforts to return
political and social stability to the country and carry out the required actions to achieve the credit's
development objectives. IDA was also confident that the required measures continued to be priority and
would be carried out, albeit with a delay due to the October 2003 crisis.

The IMF Stand-By Agreement was also extended through December 2004 to achieve a reduction of the
fiscal deficit to 6.1 percent of the GDP. This would be achieved mainly through a package of tax
measures, based on reforms introduced at the end of 2003 (such as the implementation of the new tax
code and tax regularization), the introduction of taxes on financial transactions, and the reduction of
non-priority current expenditures. However, the reduction in expenditures also recognized the need to
protect pro-poor social investments and spending.

A new CAS, discussed by the Executive Directors in January 2004, was framed to continue supporting
objectives consistent with the SSNSAC.

In summary, major political, economic, and social events in 2003, including the resignation of the
President and the installation of a new Government in October, stalled public spending. Despite this,
progress on the reform agenda was sustained, albeit delayed, and accomplishment of one of the
project's objectives "closing the fiscal gap" was in jeopardy. These events led the new Government to
request an advance on the release of SSNSAC's second tranche. In order to meet one of the most
important objectives of the project (closing fiscal balance), IDA decided to release the second tranche
before the programmed date. Since implementation was delayed, the Government had not yet complied
with all the actions and conditions included in the policy matrix and a wavier for some conditions was
required.     After careful assessment, IDA decided that these waivers were justified since the
Government's agenda was on track and committed to completing the implementation of reforms,
particularly the pending conditions and activities.

As expected, most of the remaining conditions have since been met. As mentioned above, the only
pending action (the National Congress for Education) is scheduled for January 2005. This action
continues to be supported through dialogue under ongoing investment operations and a recent
assessment concluded that the action remains a high priority for the Government, including the Ministry
of Education and the National Congress. As a result, it is expected that the Government will meet all
conditions and actions agreed upon in January 2005.



4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Budget Protection. Satisfactory

A1: Approval of the 2003 National Budget. Due to the social problems facing Bolivia in 2003 when
the draft of the national budget was presented to the Congress, its discussion was postponed and a new
draft was prepared. The rapid approval of the budget was important to carry out the fiscal adjustment
program and execute pro-poor social investments and expenditures.            The 2003 national budget,
consistent with the Stand-By Agreement agreed with the IMF, was approved in April 2003. This budget
included the proposed reduction of the fiscal deficit to 6.5 percent of the GDP and the redirecting of
expenditures and investments toward pro-poor programs.



                                                   - 10 -

A2. Protection of key social safety net programs against budgetary reductions. The SSNSAC
supported the budgetary protection of pro-poor investments and expenditures under social programs for
US$106.8 million. For the second tranche release, a waiver was granted for the condition that minimum
average budgetary execution of at least 85 percent be reached and that at least seven of the nine
programs carried out reached at least this implementation level. Budgetary execution by October 2003,
two months before it was programmed, had achieved 60 percent and only one program (SUMI) had
achieved the annual goal. As a result, a waiver was granted to process the release of the second
tranche by December 31, 2003, however by then, the global execution of the protected programs had
reached US$94.5 million, or 88 percent (higher than the 85 percent level established in the Credit
Agreement). This increase was mainly due to the rapid execution of the program to create emergency
employment (PLANE), the Universal Mother-Child Health Insurance (SUMI), and the investments in
education made by FPS, in November and December. However, regarding the condition that seven of
the nine protected programs execute the minimum percentages, by then, only four programs had
execution equal to or higher than the stated minimum: FPS-Education, Chagas' Disease-Epidemiological
Surveillance, Universal Mother-Child Health Insurance (SUMI), and the PLANE. Implementation of the
other protected programs is described below.

Budget execution for the Educational Reform was not executed as agreed, primarily as a result of: (i) the
high turnover of authorities (three Ministers of Education, Vice Ministers and Directors) in addition to
administrative personnel, which delayed the bidding processes and contracting, (ii) the temporary
suspension of the bids in October 2003 with the change of Government, and (iii) delays in the
presentation of reports on project execution with external resources and the respective disbursements.

For the health sector reform, low budget execution was due to management problems associated with
the dispersion of activities, including weaknesses in the preparation of the terms of reference, the
management of the contracting processes and budgetary procedures (which delayed implementation of
projects and disbursements). As in education, the change of authorities (two Ministers of Health, Vice
Ministers and Directors) and administrative personnel, and the temporary suspension of the bids in
October 2003 affected budgetary execution.

The Malaria Epidemiological Shield Program depended entirely on domestic resources. As a result, the
economic situation that led to a reduction in fiscal revenues affected the flow of funds to the program.
Also, problems related to staff turnover and the temporary suspension of bids delayed the process of
acquiring pesticides, which was one of the most important activities.        The Expanded Program on
Immunization, because it was also financed with domestic resources, had similar problems. Finally, the
Tuberculosis Program was affected mainly by delays in education and training activities that prevented
the program from achieving an execution goal of 85 percent.

In summary, budgetary execution was affected by the following factors: (i) lower than projected fiscal
revenues, which resulted in reduced counterpart funds to execute the projects, (ii) the transition toward
the implementation of the Integrated Management and Administrative Modernization System (SIGMA -
Sistema Integrado de Gestión y Modernización Administrativa) and the Sole Treasury Account (Cuenta
Unica del Tesoro) led to delays in the execution of the projects, (iii) delay in the 2003 budget following
social conflicts in February (it was approved in April 2003), which reduced the time to call for bids for
contracting and execution of public investment, (iv) the change of Government administration in October
2003, which in addition to a high turnover of authorities and personnel, led to the temporary suspension
of the bidding and contracting of projects, goods, and works.

Despite these problems, the overall level of budgetary protection can be considered satisfactory since
the overall percentage of execution of the protected programs (88 percent) was considerably higher than
the execution of the total of public investment (78 percent), which also includes investments in
infrastructure and other sectors. Thus, the SSNSAC was successful in protecting the budget for social
programs and promoting a counter cyclical execution of the 2003 budget, which favored pro-poor
spending and investment.




                                                   - 11 -

Table 1: PROTECTED PROGRAMS - 2003
         PROGRAM                First Tranche  Second Tranche     EXECUTION        PERCENT
                                MINIMUM           MINIMUM          12/31/2003    EXECUTION
                                BUDGETED          PERCENT          (US$ ,000)     12/31/2003
                                 AMOUNT         EXECUTION
                                 (US$ ,000)       12/31/2003
EDUCATION
Educational Reform                      25,403             75%           14,481             57%
FPS/Education                           18,816            100%           20,273            108%
HEALTH
Healthcare Reform                       14,761             80%            8,846             60%
Epidemiological Shield
  Chagas/Surveillance                    5,855             80%            4,664             80%
  Malaria                                  743             75%              337             45%
  Tuberculosis                             645             85%              513             80%
Universal Mother - Child
Health Insurance (SUMI)                 11,604             75%           16,546            143%
Expanded Inmunization
Program (PAI)                            4,027             95%            1,894             47%
LABOR
National Emergency
Employment Plan (PLANE)                 25,000            100%           26,921            108%
GRAND TOTAL                            106,854             85%           94,475             88%
Source: Ministry of Finance - VIPFE.



B. Social Protection ­ Workfare

B1. PLANE II: Implementation of the Government's program of rapid response to the crisis, which
creates large-scale temporary employment through community-based projects in urban and rural areas.
Execution of the second phase of the emergency employment program (PLANE II) was guaranteed,
prompting the reconsideration of the initial Governmental decision in early 2003 to discontinue the
program. The PLANE Program was fundamental to mitigate the adverse effects of the high levels of
unemployment in the poorest population and the decline in their income as a result of the economic
crisis. The main objective of PLANE was the generation of income for the poorest segment of the
population through the contracting of unskilled workers in labor intensive local projects in communities
and poor urban areas of the country. PLANE II, which was launched in 2003 with support from the credit,
included the following: (i) Employment in Services Program (Programa de Empleo en Servicios, PES)
designed to create jobs in urban areas, (ii) Works with Employment Program (POE - Programa de Obras
con Empleo), previously called Rural Employment Program (PER - Programa de Empleo Rural), aimed
at creating jobs in rural areas, and (iii) Support to Municipal Governments Program (PAGM - Programa
de Apoyo a los Gobiernos Municipales), designed to hire unemployed professionals and technical
personnel to support projects in the municipalities and prefectures.

For the implementation of PLANE II, the DUF outsourced its operations by contracting agents to
administer, operate, and supervise the program. The Executing Entities were municipal governments,
departmental prefectures, or other government institutions that channeled sub-projects from communities
and other grassroots organizations. The beneficiaries were mainly unemployed workers, women and
men, between the ages of 25 and 55 years old, both for the Employment in Services Program (PES) and
for the Works with Jobs Program (POE). Unemployed professionals were also hired in technical areas
related to the project menu of PLANE II, such as in the Assistance to Municipal Governments Program
(PAGM).



                                                    - 12 -

PLANE II became a counter-cyclical mechanism that created over 341,000 one-month temporary jobs in
2003, easily exceeding the goal of 300,000 temporary jobs, and thus achieving the objective of
mitigating the adverse effects of the crisis on the income of the poorest. During the total execution of
PLANE II (15 months), more than 389,000 temporary jobs were created, 6,026 sub-projects were
approved, and 5,906 sub-projects were executed. This compared favorably with PLANE I in 2002, when
for US$26.0 million, about 370,000 jobs were created and about 4,400 sub-projects were started.

In December 2003, with Supreme Decree 27294, the PLANE Program was extended to December 2004
because of the persisting difficult economic and social situation in the country.           Thus, the new
Government guaranteed its continuity for a third phase, now as part of a more structured and coherent
program recently created within DUF, namely the Social Safety Network (Red de Protección Social
-RPS) (see below).

B2. Enhancement of program quality and effectiveness. The DUF prepared and disseminated the
following administrative manuals and procedures: (i) operational project cycle for the entities that
participate in the program, (ii) payment of commissions, (iii) terms of reference for professionals, and (iv)
performance table. The intermediary agents carried out the program in a decentralized manner through
its departmental offices, with the objective of guaranteeing the effective implementation of the program
in its operational areas.       In order to foster more transparent and effective financial resource
management, the administrative agent used various systems including: (i) UNDP Financial
System­project accounting, budgetary execution, financial statements and crossed control of payments,
(ii) PLANE II database­recording and control of authorization lists and of payment of workers by
sub-project, control of refunds to wholesale dealers and issuance of reports by project, and (iii) PLANE II
Internal Audit System, to control supervising agents and wholesalers as well as an information system for
closing completed projects accountably.

In December 2003, a consulting firm was contracted to undertake an impact assessment of the PLANE
II. The final report was delivered in February 2004 as agreed in the partial waiver of conditions for the
second tranche release.      Among its more important conclusions were that: (i) PLANE II effectively
reached a segment of the low-income population, (ii) opportunities for jobs and income were created
both in urban and rural areas, (iii) it was possible to generate new labor capacities, mainly for women,
and (iv) it is necessary to design an "Exit Strategy," to be able to absorb former workers of the program.
PLANE II improved its administrative aspects, especially with respect to the payment of wages and the
selection of people. It also increased the number of enrollees, the supply of people who wished to work
and made it possible for people to acquire skills. In PLANE I, 55 percent of the enrollees were women,
and in PLANE II this participation increased to 64 percent. In August 2004, the external financial audit
was delivered, and the program was judged satisfactory.

During the first phase of PLANE (15 months from the end of 2001 to the beginning of 2003) US$32.7
million was executed.      Of this amount, 86 percent went directly to beneficiaries and 14 percent
represented overhead costs of: administrative, wholesale, and supervising agents; assessments;
insurance; advertising; and audits. In PLANE II (April 2003 to May 2004) US$27.5 million was executed
(88 percent went directly to beneficiaries and 12 percent to overhead costs). In December 2003, through
Supreme Decree 27294, PLANE was extended to a third phase (PLANE III), which was launched in
2004, has an expected duration of 20 months, and an initial programmed amount of US$17.0 million.

The medium-term strategy for the PLANE program is based on: (i) generating a training program to
benefit the hired workers, (ii) creating micro-enterprises with former PLANE workers who have been
trained and certified, and (iii) arriving at agreements with municipalities, prefectures, the central
Government, and chambers of commerce so that the trained workers can be gradually absorbed in civil
works financed by public and private investment.

Based on the results of the PLANE II impact evaluation, which suggested that there was a need to
transform the program into a more comprehensive social protection intervention, the Government
created the Social Safety Network (Red de Protección SocialRPS) in January 2004 (Supreme Decree



                                                   - 13 -

27331). The Decree also includes adjustments to improve transparency, avoid politicization, allocate
resources in accordance with unemployment parameters, and promote local participation in
implementing and co-financing small-scale projects. The objective of the RPS is to carry out programs
that benefit the poorest population at the national level and contribute to the coordination and financing
of these programs. The DUF, through a Coordinating Unit, is responsible for implementing the RPS's
programs.

In the first phase, the RPS interventions will be based on two components: (i) labor-intensive projects,
where the RPS finances only labor costs (similar to PLANE), and (ii) small projects where the RPS
transfers resources to finance complete projects (Pobreza y Apoyo a la Inversión Social, PROPAÍS).
The goal is for these programs to make it possible to carry out counter cyclical interventions. In the
medium term, the RPS will try to develop a comprehensive social protection framework, coordinating its
activities with other Government entities implementing social protection programs. It will also seek to
reconcile national and municipal agendas aimed at achieving the Millennium Development Goals.

B3.    National Fund for Productive and Social Investment (FPS): Program adjustments in selected
conditions of municipal co-financing and in promotion of municipal projects easily implemented during
periods of crisis. At the end of 2002, the municipal governments expressed concern about the lack of
financial resources and their inability to meet the demand to match funds for projects promoted by the
FPS. The Government put forth its response in the CONAPES Resolution of November 7, 2002, which
reduced the amount of municipal matching funds. The FPS decided to implement the measure starting
in 2003, based on agreements with municipalities.         In addition, in May 2004, the DUF prepared
guidelines to adjust the National Compensation Policy, seeking to direct municipal investment in
accordance with sectoral policies, and reconcile national and local priorities for the achievement of the
MDGs, thereby contributing to mitigating poverty and vulnerability within the framework of the PRSP.

In November 2003 the FPS prepared alternatives to maximize the intensive use of temporary semi- and
unskilled labor and stimulate the creation of micro and small enterprises for labor-intensive maintenance
projects. FPS's activities supports the following actions: emergency programs, maintenance of roads,
paving of streets and roads, manufacture of tiles, cobbled pavement of tertiary local roads, construction
of channels and containment walls with gabions, construction and refurbishment of markets, schools and
health centers, and incentives for labor-intensive projects in the National Compensation Policy (basic
sanitation, support to the productive sector, and the education and health sectors). Likewise, based on
FPS's experience, one of the alternatives consisted of communities implementing projects, with the
support of local non-governmental organizations (NGOs).             This alternative reduced costs while
promoting the participation of beneficiaries and the use of local labor.

C. Health Sector Reform. Satisfactory

C1. SEDES: Signing of performance agreements with Departmental Health Services (SEDES). The
SSNSAC promoted the signing of performance agreements between the Ministry of Health and the nine
Departmental Health Services (SEDES) for 2003. These performance agreements aimed to improve
efficiency in the delivery of health services through the definition of performance indicators and
accountability, where goals could be established with regard to: (i) coverage in municipalities and
communities of the Mobile Health Teams (BRISAS) and of Community Health Assistants (ASISTES),
within the National Program for Coverage Expansion (EXTENSA), and (ii) control of communicable and
vaccine-preventable disease (Chagas' Disease, Malaria, Tuberculosis, Epidemiological Shield, PAI
(Programa Ampliado de Inmunización). Performance agreements, which have now been carried out
since 1999, are changing the interaction and planning logic in the health sector, between the national and
departmental Government levels. The emphasis on results-oriented evaluation is beginning to replace
the previous input-based approach.       The SEDES agreed with the Ministry of Health on the most
important objectives of their annual programs, measurement of key indicators related to sectoral results,
and monitoring progress.

The achievements from the performance agreements include the following: (i) 59 Health Brigades and
1,400 health assistants contracted to serve 2,500 communities (from a target of 59 Health Brigades and



                                                   - 14 -

contracted health assistants serving 1,400 communities); (ii) more than 426,000 households in
Chagas-affected areas sprayed, Malaria IPA(Indice Parasitario Anual.,) reduced to 5.5/1,000 habitants,
and more than 234,000 bacillus diagnoses completed (from a target of 316,000 households in
Chagas-affected areas sprayed, reduction of Malaria IPA (Indice Parasitario Annual). to 6/1,000
habitants, completion of 200,000 bacillus diagnoses with tests); and (iii) more than 206,000 children
under age one vaccinated with Pentavalent (from a target of 189,000 children under age one vaccinated
with Pentavalent).

Also in 2003, the Government introduced a new administration model, based on the Local Health
Directorates (DILOS), to further decentralize the health services. Each municipality has its own DILOS,
formed by representatives from the Ministry of Health (SEDES), the municipal government, and civil
society. The DILOS adopt strategic decisions on the expected results in the health network and on the
annual operation plan.        Currently, the health sector has advanced the most in results-based
management. The Government now intends to promote this model in other sectors and introduce it at
municipal levels, to better plan and follow-up on sectoral policies.

C2. SUMI: Ensuring that SUMI program benefits reach the poorest. The Universal Mother-Child Health
Insurance (SUMI) was created through Law 2426 dated November 2002. SUMI was effective throughout
the country since the beginning of 2003, and it is universal, comprehensive, and free of charge. SUMI
provides health services at all levels of care in the National Health System to pregnant women up to six
months after delivery and to children under age five.        In 2003, SUMI more than doubled the tax
co-participation resources reserved for the insurance, compared to the system in place until 2002. In
addition, the National Solidarity Fund (Fondo Solidario Nacional, FSN) was created with up to 10 percent
of the resources of the Special Account Dialogue 2000, after the deduction for the Solidarity Fund for
Education and Health.       These additional resources are granted to those municipalities that have
exhausted their co-participation resources in payment of SUMI benefits.          In addition to promoting
budgetary protection of SUMI, SSNSAC advocated for the benefits of the program to reach the poorest,
which led to the issuance of Ministerial Resolution No. 0244 of the Ministry of Health. This resolution
allows SUMI to reimburse travel expenses incurred by the poor living in rural areas, so that they can
have access to secondary and tertiary health services. Based on this legal standard, SUMI is already
disbursing the land and water travel expenses for emergencies in at least 61 municipalities.

The 2003 results include: (i) 55 percent coverage of institutional births (target of 58 percent); (ii)
treatment of about 140,000 cases of IRAS (Infecciones Respiratorias Agudas) and pneumonia among
children under age five (target of 127,000 cases); and (iii) SUMI reimbursement system in operation.

The new Government is evaluating SUMI and based on the results, it will seek to redesign the system to
improve its efficiency, effectiveness, and financial sustainability, seeking to expand basic health
coverage in rural and under-served areas, and to incorporate benefits such as: (i) health information,
education, and dissemination, (ii) transportation of high-risk patients to better equipped health centers,
and (iii) incorporation of nutrition activities.

Likewise, among its health policy priorities, the new Government is seeking to strengthen
results-oriented management at the municipal level, reducing the incidence of communicable diseases
(Chagas' disease, Malaria, and Tuberculosis), and increasing the coverage of the Expanded Program on
Immunization (PAI).

C3.    Rights of the pregnant woman: Empowering indigenous groups.             The cultural adaptation of
maternity health services was also considered to be a fundamentally important issue. Many indigenous
women do not use birth control methods or deliver babies with public health service assistance for
cultural reasons that are often not respected by the health centers (such as, delivery position, company
of family members or returning the placenta). Through a Ministerial Resolution of the Ministry of Health,
the Government adopted the Bill of Rights of Pregnant Women, which includes the rights to health care,
good treatment, and respect for traditional cultural practices. The Government is also implementing a
culturally-appropriate dissemination program through radio spots and television videos broadcast in
Spanish, Quechua, Aymara and other native languages. The campaign includes awareness initiatives



                                                    - 15 -

for health workers, including posters in the health centers. These actions are seeking to facilitate access
to health services for poor women, particularly indigenous women.

In the medium term, the Government will seek to expand its response to the need for greater
participation from indigenous peoples, establishing permanent dialogue mechanisms between the
Ministry of Health and the representative organizations of indigenous peoples (two bodies have already
been established, one with the CIDOB (Confederacion Indígena del Oriente Boliviano - Confederacion
de Pueblos Indígenas de Bolivia) and another with the CSUTCB (Confederacion Sindical Unica de
Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia). With the participation of these organizations, there is ongoing
work on: the accreditation of "traditional" indigenous and native physicians and the introduction of
intercultural and traditional medicine in the education of health professionals.

D. Education Sector Reform. As detailed below, given the imminent accomplishment of this condition,
achievement is rated as satisfactory.

D1.    Strategic Sector Plan: Adoption of the Strategic Plan for the Sector, with emphasis on policy
response to evidence of declining school enrollments and attendance of children from the poorest income
quintile. The first phase of the Educational Reform Program (PRE), which was initiated in 1994, sought
to strengthen the educational system by improving education quality and primary education and
developing human resources. In this context, a new Education Strategy was needed for the coming
years and its preparation required the involvement of civil society. The Government planned to achieve
this with the presentation of the Governmental sector strategy at the Second National Education
Congress.

In 2003, the preparation and discussion of the Sectoral Strategic Plan was delayed due to the economic
crisis and social and political instability, which resulted in frequent Minister changes (three different
Ministers in 2003 and a new Minister at the beginning of 2004) and high turnover of Ministry staff. An
initial draft of the Sectoral Strategic Plan was discussed with departmental level representatives, while
the Unit of Analysis of Economic and Social Policies (UDAPE) prepared a study on the causes of school
absence among children from the poorest quintiles. The results of this study were incorporated into the
Strategic Plan. However, the Ministry of Education could not convene the Second National Education
Congress to present the Strategic Plan due to the constant social conflicts and the change of
Government in 2003. As a result, a waiver if this condition was granted for disbursement of SSNSAC's
second tranche.

It should be noted that even under "normal" circumstances, calling the National Education Congress is
complex, mainly due to the enormous diversity of institutions that can participate in the Congress. The
Congress includes participation of representatives from: various Ministries, the confederations of urban
and rural teachers, retired teachers, school boards, organizations of educators, teaching and secondary
school students, public and private universities, private schools, the Academy of Sciences, neighborhood
councils, associations of municipalities, departmental councils, the Bolivian Central Union (COB),
individuals from the private sector, professional associations, church commissions, Colonizers (Colonos),
Media Workers, factory workers, mining workers, indigenous and rural peoples representatives, and a
women's coordinator, among the most important.

The presentation of the Strategic Plan to civil society is a priority policy of the new Government. In
December 2003, the Ministry of Education issued a Ministerial Resolution expanding the composition of
the National Board of Education (Consejo Nacional de Educación, CONED), which has representatives
from the above mentioned institutions. In January 2004, the first regular session of CONED was held.
The functions of CONED include: (i) formulating public policy proposals and strategic guidelines for
education based on conclusions reached at the National Education Congresses, (ii) promoting the
research and debate of educational proposals with social participation, (iii) establishing dialogue and
information mechanisms with citizens on ongoing education processes, and (iv) organizing the National
Education Congresses. In March 2004, the second regular session of CONED took place and the call
made by the Ministry of Education for the Second National Education Congress was approved. After
being rescheduled, the event is now planned for January 2005.



                                                    - 16 -

The Government also prepared the Multi­Annual Operation Plan (POMA): 2004-2008, which is the basis
of the Strategic Sector Plan and is already being analyzed within CONED, to be presented at the Second
National Education Congress.

The Ministry of Education made significant progress in harmonizing and coordinating international donors
to ensure their support for education through the framework provided by the Strategic Sector Plan, and in
the meantime, by the POMA. In doing so, the Ministry is fully committed to presenting the Plan to the
Second National Education Congress.           IDA endorsed these agreements and agreed with the
Government to include, as policy actions for the second SSPSAC (the second credit), a set of actions to
strengthen the process and create a consensus on educational priorities and policy guidelines.

The Government presented the POMA to civil society at the departmental level, strengthening
consensus for presentation of the Strategy to the Congress. Also, the Ministry of Education and civil
society representatives evaluated the Educational Reform Program (launched in 1994) to assess its
achievements and costs, as an additional input to the Congress. As part of the consensus process, a
mid-term educational strategy for Bolivia will be revised and validates. Even if this strategy is not
explicitly "approved" by the Congress (given the political and ideological environment within the
Congress), it is expected that debates and discussions will define guidelines on educational priorities.

In summary, there has been significant progress and efforts towards presenting a mid-term educational
strategy to the Second National Education Congress in January 2005. Discussions about the educational
strategy have been ongoing during recent months, and it must be stressed that there is a strong
Government commitment to reaching a validated educational strategy for Bolivia. These actions are key
parts of the Government's agenda, and the formal accomplishment of this condition is clearly a high
priority for the Ministry of Education.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable


4.5 Institutional development impact:
High. Even though SSNSAC was a short-term operation, it was comprehensive enough to trigger the
following institutional development results:

1)       The SSNSAC helped close the 2003 fiscal deficit, without substantially affecting the execution of
the protected programs. It guaranteed the operational continuity of the social protection programs
(PLANE), health (especially the new SUMI program), and education (in particular the project carried out
by the FPS).

2        The SSNSAC also supported the development of the new Social Safety Network (RPS) in
Bolivia in January 2004 (PLANE is one of its principal programs). The credit provided additional inputs
for discussion regarding the continuation of the program, and as a result PLANE II and PLANE III were
implemented.

3        In addition to consolidating and strengthening the operation of PLANE, the credit promoted the
GOB's decision to improve the National Compensation Policy and the operation of the FPS projects to
expand its pro-poor and labor-intensive orientation.

4        The credit promoted the use of Performance Agreements in the health sector (initiated in 1999),
which introduced a results-oriented approach to departmental health management.



                                                   - 17 -

5        As a result of the budgetary protection program, the Government implemented some structural
measures to reduce funding vulnerability, and improve institutionalization of several very important
social programs, particularly those financed only with domestic resources. For example, the Supreme
Decree 27488, 2004 regulates the Budgetary Administration Law 2042 of December 1999, seeking to
ensure the sustainability of the Expanded Program on Immunization, within the framework of the
National Health Policy. The Decree states that in 2004, 27 percent of the resources transferred by the
Health Funds will be used for the acquisition of vaccines, syringes, and exclusive operating expenses of
the PAI. This proportion will rise to 45 percent in 2005, 48 percent in 2006, and to 50 percent from 2007
on. Another example is the creation of the RPS within DUF, as a formal counter-cyclical intervention
designed to mitigate the impact of shocks and risks on the most vulnerable populations.

6        The credit fostered increased participation of municipalities in health care delivery by promoting
implementation of SUMI, which permanently earmarked significant inter-Governmental transfers to
municipalities and increased accountability at local levels.

7        The credit also promoted an intercultural approach to health service delivery, including
implementation of the Bill of Rights for Pregnant Women and agreements with two leading indigenous
organizations to facilitate their participation in the program.

8        The SSNSAC promoted the organization and operation of the National Board of Education
(CONED), consisting of Government and civil society delegates, to consolidate a dialogue on
educational proposals. Among its functions, CONED will organize the Second National Education
Congress.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
General economic slow-down within the region and with trading partners.                     Since 1999, the
following external shocks established an unfavorable environment for Bolivia: (a) an economic crisis in
Russia and Southeast Asian countries that led to the reduction of capital inflows and deterioration in the
terms of trade, (b) a recession in the trading partner countries of the region, which reduced both the
demand for Bolivian exports and the remittances of Bolivian citizens living abroad, (c) exchange rate
devaluations in Argentina, Brazil and Chile that affected the competitiveness of Bolivian tradable
production, and (d) climatic shocks and natural disasters associated with El Niño and La Niña. These
factors contributed to sparking the political and social crisis of February and September-October 2003,
which further contributed to the deterioration of the macroeconomic conditions of the country.

Social and political instability.       Severe social conflicts in September-October 2003 provoked the
resignation of the President of the Republic and his replacement by the Vice President. This dramatic
change affected the implementation dynamics of the credit, since it generated: (i) strong instability and
turnover of authorities and civil servants, which reduced decision-making in key implementing Ministries,
(ii) the temporary halt of contracting in Health and Education Ministries that slowed overall budget
execution, and (iii) further tightening of Government receipts as a consequence of the discontinuity in
production and trade during September and October 2003.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent change of authorities and personnel in the public institutions. During 2003, there was
excessive turnover of authorities (three different Ministers of Education and two Ministers of Health) and
of personnel (Vice Ministers, directors and administrative personnel), in addition to changes at the
departmental level (central Government representatives, head of the departmental level of Government)
that slowed down the execution of health and education components of the program.

Delay in the approval of the General Budget of the Nation (PGN) 2003. The social conflicts in
February 2003, related to the discussion of the 2003 national budget proposal, delayed its approval until



                                                       - 18 -

April 2003. This delay made funding for public investment and spending uncertain and slowed down the
bidding and contracting processes for public investment.

Temporary suspension of new bids- contracting by the new Government.                       The change of
Government administration and the turnover of senior authorities led to the temporary suspension of the
bidding­contracting processes to permit the re-evaluation of awards. While this was a desirable choice
on the part of the new Government, it led to additional delays in execution of the programs. It should be
noted that in Bolivia, there is strong concentration of the execution of public investments in the last
quarter of the year; thus the events of October significantly affected public spending performance.

Implementation of the Integrated Management and Administrative Modernization System (SIGMA) and of
the Unique Account of the Treasury (CUT). The decision not to abandon the implementation of the
SIGMA and CUT Programs did lead to delays in the implementation of the health and education
investments due to temporary delays in equipment installation and training of personnel in the new
processes. These delays affected the execution of programs mainly at the municipal and regional levels.
However, by making this decision, the Government also made clear its determination to continue with
policies of sound fiscal management and transparency, which in turn positively influenced decisions by
IDA and other donors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance, as the executing agency for the credit, remained strongly committed to
achieving the SSNSAC's objectives, seeking to give continuity to the actions outlined in the credit,
despite the change of Government and Minister of Finance in October 2003.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not Applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely.     The SSPSAC increased the likelihood that the social programs it supported, including
improvements in the health and education sectors, will be sustained in the future. The commitment of
the new Government (October 2003) to strengthen and improve the coordination of the social safety nets
and to redirect the expenditure and investment toward pro-poor social programs has been a critical factor
that will contribute to this sustainability.

Building on this experience, the 2004 Social Sector Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
(SSPSAC) for US$20.0 million was disbursed with expectations that a further US$44.0 million may be
available in subsequent credits. The SSPSAC was designed to ensure that the advances made in the
SSNSAC in health, education, basic sanitation, and social protection are maintained. The SSPSAC also
aims to help Bolivia accelerate its progress in meeting the Millennium Development Goals. To the
extent that Bolivia also advances in its review of the PRSP, subsequent phases of this programmatic
credit will be converted into a Poverty Reduction Structural Credit (PRSC).

The actions supported by the SSPSAC consider the difficult political and fiscal situation in the country
and incorporate the recommendations of the Public Expenditure Review (PER). Most of the policies and
actions of the first phase do not represent additional costs, since they only ensure the continuity of
processes already initiated and promote the reassignment of currently budgeted resources to achieve
pro-poor objectives and efficiency improvements in programs that are already financed.

However, the implementation of the three phases of the SSPSAC will eventually require additional
spending in some areas, and it will be ultimately necessary for the Government to obtain financing that
may come from the reassignment of resources from other programs or external sources. The design of
the second and third phases of the SSPSAC will evaluate the corresponding impact and its likelihood of
being sustained.




                                                    - 19 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the health, education and social protection programs enjoy important external financial support,
which will continue to be necessary in the coming years to ensure sustainability. It should also be noted
that there is progress, mainly in the health sector, to guarantee the financial sustainability of the
programs through the use of domestic resources, such as in the cases of: (i) SUMI, which is mainly
financed with tax co-participation resources and from the Special Account Dialogue 2000, (ii) the PAI,
which is financed by resources of the Health Insurance Funds (Cajas de Salud), and (iii) the
Epidemiological Shield programs, where the national treasury financing is significant. IDA is also further
evaluating its support to the education sector in the CAS.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. IDA had a multidisciplinary team of experts and the assistance of local World Bank staff in
the identification, preparation, and evaluation of the credit. IDA maintained a cordial relationship with the
Government during the preparation and evaluation phases and carried out intense consultations with the
various public institutions involved in social protection programs. This consultation encouraged the
building of program ownership in these public entities focused on generating social safety nets in Bolivia.
The credit incorporated lessons from international and national experiences, which provided flexibility
and the capacity to respond to the country conditions. During preparation and appraisal, IDA took into
account the adaptation of the project design to the technical, financial, economic, institutional, social,
and political conditions existing in Bolivia. During appraisal, IDA analyzed the risks and benefits of the
credit, identifying substantially greater costs, both for maintaining current levels and ensuring progress of
the social reforms and for the governance of the country.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA carefully tracked progress in compliance with the expectations of the program with
local authorities. With the deterioration in the social and political conditions of the country, IDA moved
quickly to maintain focus on the program's objectives and concluded that it was necessary to advance
the disbursement of the second tranche to improve the likelihood of meeting the SSNSAC's objectives.
This decision reflected both realism and pro-activity in supporting the implementation process. There
was close coordination with the Government, which made it possible to facilitate cooperation with other
financial multilateral and bilateral agencies to obtain the required financing to close the fiscal deficit and
give continuity to the pro-poor social programs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. IDA's performance during the preparation, appraisal, and implementation stages was
satisfactory. In general, the project was well designed and consistent with IDA's assistance strategy to
support the continuity of and strengthen the social reforms and promote greater assignment to pro-poor
social spending, followed up with realistic and proactive supervision.

Flexibility and a fast commitment to assist in crisis situations is necessary. IDA undertook this
operation with an adequate understanding of the risks of social, economic, and eventually, political
instability facing Bolivia. These risks became realities and IDA showed that it was prepared to adjust to
maintain focus on the overall development goal of the SSNSAC. Two waivers and a partial waiver,
usually seen in a negative light, were granted to advance the second tranche disbursement and to
maintain the integrity of the program, based on the Government's commitment to implement the
measures to meet the objectives of the credit. IDA's timely support also made it possible to coordinate
efforts with other international and bilateral cooperation organizations rapidly, so that the country could
move toward medium-term development objectives.




                                                     - 20 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower showed an excellent level of commitment to the SSNSAC's objectives. The
Government made a multi-ministerial team (Ministries of Finance, Education, and Health) and
decentralized institutions (DUF/FPS) available for the design of the project, with the participation of
senior authorities and technical personnel. This cross-Government participation and commitment to
establishing a social safety net is particularly noteworthy considering that unlike a sectoral credit, the
resources of the SSNSAC would not be allocated to specific sectors or institutions. The Government
authorities and personnel worked and cooperated with IDA's team in a continuous fashion.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. While there were areas in which the Government could have performed better, under
difficult circumstances, the Government maintained its commitment to promote the reforms in the health
system, education, and social protection programs. The change of Government in October 2003, even
though it caused delays in complying with conditions and actions previously agreed, did not alter this
commitment, despite the different problems encountered such as, the high turnover of authorities and
administrative personal, the economic restrictions, and the temporary suspension of the bids and
contracting that threatened the implementation of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The VIPFE (Viceministerio de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo) of the Ministry
of Finance assigned one official to monitor the credit and confirm compliance with agreed actions and
conditions. There was good coordination with IDA.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned

1)        Protection of social programs. This program illustrated a basic issue in public sector finance.
It is generally agreed that volatility (and periodic intra-year cuts) in funding for social protection programs
should be avoided since it leads to inefficiency and ultimately substantial costs in terms of lost human
capital development in the medium term. However, in spite of the priority that most Governments give
to social spending in rhetorical terms, in reality, when many categories of Government expenditures are
non-discretionary (public wages, pensions, debt service) and when fiscal restraint is needed, it is
necessary to proactively protect the budgets of social programs to ensure their continuity, particularly
when they constitute effective counter-cyclical pro-poor impact measures. The use of short-term
programs, such as the SSNSAC, are proving to be valuable instruments in assisting Governments to do
this, although with the added risk that they contribute to debt and possibly "aid-dependency."

2)        It is necessary to develop a results-oriented culture. The use of well-defined indicators
associated with the expected results helps not only the implementation of the credit, but the targeting of
actions by the Government. Systematic approaches that link policy actions to results and allow the
evaluation of the contribution of the actions of a given institution to a particular result are necessary. The
Performance Agreements in the health sector are an example of one such instrument. There should be
few indicators so that dispersion of efforts is avoided, there is a follow-up methodology, and indicators
can be made available on a regular basis. Incentives should also be created to promote the
achievement of these objectives. Currently, the Bolivian health sector has taken the lead in developing
this approach. The Government intends to promote this approach in other sectors and to introduce it at
the municipal level, to be able to improve planning and follow-up of sectoral policies, as it seeks to meet
the Millennium Development Goals.

3)        A gradual approach and focused in a few activities should be used. The SSNSAC focused
attention on a few well-selected programs that were closely aligned to the overall goal of the



                                                      - 21 -

program--social protection in a time of fiscal constraints. This proved to be practical and provided good
results. This approach illustrates that in future credits (possibly the second and third phases of the
SSPSAC if they materialize) there is value in succeeding in limited activities within the social safety net
that will have a maximum impact on the development of human capital (education and health), rather
than covering a wide range of actions.

4)       Technical assistance in tandem with the adjustment operation may be required. A
structural adjustment operation that involves a process of relatively complex change, such as the
establishment of an effective social safety net, will be difficult to implement on an operational level. The
SSNSAC provided a framework in which to work, however, it was clear that technical assistance and
continuous consensus building, beyond the scope of the adjustment operation, would be needed to bring
the concept to reality. A technical assistance program designed in tandem with the adjustment credit can
promote better and more effective reforms.

5)       Cultural barriers generated by the ethnic diversity of the country should be taken into
account. Although preliminary, the results of the culturally-appropriate measures introduced under the
SSNSAC suggested that to improve the results of education and health services and of social protection
programs and expand access to the most vulnerable populations (often indigenous peoples), awareness
and training activities should be expanded through dialogue and focus groups mechanisms promoting
the reduction of cultural impediments to accessing services.

6)       The information systems should be improved, particularly at the municipal level.
Technical assistance should be provided for the development of information systems, within the
Information and Administrative Modernization System (SIGMA), so that better decisions can be adopted
on the use of public resources and their follow-up at all levels of Government.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Following is the translation of the comments by the Borrower to this ICR (December 8, 2004). The
original comments are also included in Annex 8.

                                       BORROWER'S COMMENTS

                                            Informal Translation

                               SOCIAL SAFETY NET SUPPORT PROGRAM

1. RESULTS FROM THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM

The Agreement for Structural adjustment Loan between the Government of Bolivia and the World Bank
was signed by June 23, 2003. This loan provided financing in the amount of US$35 Million, for the
Social Safety Net Support Program. The objective was to support the country during a period of difficult
fiscal adjustment to strengthen the social protection in a counter cyclical fashion (to protect budget
allocations of a set of programs for social protection), and particularly to address the deterioration in
employment, in income and ensure that basic social services were offered to the poor that were most
affected during the economic crisis. On the other hand, it sought to promote incremental reforms, design
to provide continuity to the program of social reforms, implemented by this in former government.

This operation would be financing two tranches

The conditions for the first disbursement were met in the month of may , and the disbursement was
authorized on June 27, 2003. The Bank's Board of Directors approved and disbursed the second tranche
on December 24, 2003, four months ahead of time, waving full compliance with two conditions and
partial compliance with one, supporting the project team's recommendation which considered that the




                                                     - 22 -

objectives of these conditions had been substantially complied. In this decision they took into account
these serious social events that took place in October 2003 which resulted in the change of
Governmental administration which affected compliance with some of the programs components.

Level Reached in compliance with component objectives

The Program achieved the majority of the objectives set forth in each component:
a)      Protection of Expenditures in Social Protection Programs, b) Implementation of PLANE II, c)
Health Services, d) Education Services,

a)      Protection of Expenditures in Social Protection Programs:

Under this component of the Program the Government agreed to prioritize in a sustainable manner
expenditures (investment and recurrent) of social protection programs selected in education, health and
temporary employment generation in 2003. These programs are considered priority for the Government.


The mechanism used was the approved budget US$ 106,8 million), with financial execution at year end
to be at a level of no less than 85% and of the 9 protected programs at least 7 were to comply with the
agreed levels of budget execution.

Without a doubt, it was the area in which the financial performance was relatively low in some of the
programs, at end October execution had reached 60% and at the time the projection was that by year
end it would be 77% and of 9 programs only one had reached the annual goal agreed. As a result a
waiver of compliance was necessary. The reasons behind this situation were considered justified since
on the one hand an advance of the disbursement was being requested since the evaluation of
compliance was being carried out after only 10 months. On the other hand the events of October 2003
affected negatively the implementation of these programs.

However it is worth noting that the Government did its best efforts to improve the implementation of
these programs through the end of the year noting that the percentage execution of the total of protected
programs was comparatively greater than that of total public investment or of public social investment.

The implementation of protected programs reached 88% above that projected by the appraisal mission
and established goal of 85% of the 9 protected programs that reached a satisfactory level of annual
execution were the following: The Universal Maternal-Child Insurance, the component for quality of
education carried out by FPS, the Program for Chagas Disease and PLANE, which exceeded the
amounts agreed. The remaining 5 programs were not able to fully execute the amounts budgeted.
However, programs like PAI were able to advance significantly in their goals.

a)      Implementation of PLANE II

The Government decided again to assign priority to social protection programs like PLANE. As a result
in 2003, this program of temporary employment creation was maintained for a second phase in the
budget of US$25.0 million was approved for this program. The Government selected a new
administrator (UNDP) as well as other organizations to administer and operate the Program. Even
though the program was initiated in March 2003, it was able to comply with the objectives of budget
approval, with presentation of an operational manual for the program and at the end of 2003
approximately 341,000 jobs of one month duration had been created for the poor, exceeding the
established goal of 300,000 jobs.

b)      Health Services

Beyond the protection of budget to the principal health programs and projects, important reforms were
included as a tranche release condition to maintain and expand sector reforms:
·       Nine Performance Agreements were formalized with the Servicios Departmentales de Salud



                                                   - 23 -

(SEDES) with the objective of focusing Departmental and National priorities, improving the performance
of health services and improving the transparency of local planning, these compliances would be
evaluated each year.

·        Considering that access and cost of transportation are an important constraint to the use of
health services by mothers and children of low income living in distant communities, Ministerial
Resolutions establishing procedures and criteria to reimburse the cost of transport to second and third
level of health post centers were approved.

·        A third set of reforms involved empowering groups of indigenous women to improve access to
health services through dissemination of the Declaration of Rights of Pregnant Women .

c)       Education Services:

    The long term Strategic Plan for the Education Sector is a fundamental importance to maintain and
    deepen sectoral reforms, and emphasizes on one hand consolidating the reform of primary
    education and on the other expanding to other sub sectors of the education system within the
    framework of the countries general development plan of the poverty reduction strategy and of the
    declaration of education for all; the Program included the preparation of the strategic plan and its
    presentation to the National Education Congress through the design of a schedule for presentation to
    Congress in a letter signed by the Minister presenting the strategic document to the congress (which
    includes representatives of civil society) for their consideration.

    In this respect, in 2003 progress was made in obtaining consensus on the document through a series
    of workshops at the departmental level. The document has been adjusted to reflect the outcome of
    this workshop.

    However, the Plan has not been presented to the Congress since before doing so, it is necessary to
    comply the procedure set forth in the supreme decree, as a result the implementation is delayed due
    to the social crisis that the country witnessed and the constant changes in sectoral authorities.

In summary, it was not able to complete this component in 2003. However the sector has prepared and
disseminated the Strategy and called for a sectoral Congress which is planned for the beginning of 2005.
Furthermore, a study to identify causes of school drop out and proposing actions to reduce the rate of
drop out has been carried out. The results will be included in the Strategic Plan for Education. This
reflects the Government's priority to continue advancing with Educational Reform.

Accomplishment of Program Objectives

Even though the actions supported by the program were of rapid implementation upon conclusion of the
program it is expected that the achievement of its objectives will continue since they are part of a
process underway is considered that the objectives of the program were achieved and for this the
following have contributed: the sectors involved in the implementation of policies, the Ministry of
Finance through VIPFE and UDAPE with the monitoring and coordination with sectors and without a
doubt the Bank through timely support and assistance in the preparation monitoring and implementation
of the Program.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 24 -

               Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  A. BUDGET PROTECTION
  Goal: Counter cyclical protection of key social programs that serve the poor, build human capital, and have high reform content accumulated in recent years.
                                  ACTION PRIOR TO                ACTION PRIOR TO
     ISSUE/OBJECTIVE                 RELEASE OF                RELEASE OF SECOND               EXPECTED RESULTS                            ACHIEVEMENTS
                                   FIRSTTRANCHE                        TRANCHE

A1. Approval of the National The PGN for 2003 is                                              Public investment budget     The PGN for 2003 was approved in April 2003,
General Budget (PGN) for      presented to and passed by                                      overall has increased by     through Law 2449.
2003.                         the National Congress.                                          10% over 2002.
                                                                                                                           The PGN for 2003 was consistent with the
Objective: Timely presentation                                                                                             Stand-By Arrangement financial program agreed
and passage of a revised,                                                                                                  with the IMF.
counter cyclical budget
addressing social and economic                                                                                             It budgeted reducing the fiscal deficit to 6.5
priorities.                                                                                                                percent of the GDP and redirecting the
                                                                                                                           expenditure and the investment toward pro-poor,
                                                                                                                           counter cyclical programs.

A2. Protection of key social  Provision in the PGN of the By December 31, 2003: (i) the Protecting the budgets of          Waiver was granted for the second disbursement
safety net programs against   following specific            budgets of at least 7 of 9 of the counter-cyclical social      of the Credit.
budgetary reductions.         appropriations (in US$        programs below have been          programs also protects the
                              million equivalent), or a     executed to the minimum           policies on which those      By December 31, 2003: (i) 4 of the 9 protected
Objective: Guaranteed         total protected budget of     percentages indicated; and (ii) programs are based,            programs achieved the minimum percentages:
availability of budgetary     US$106.82 million:            the total budget executed is not guarantees that social
resources for priority social                               less than 85% of the total        reforms will be maintained, (1) PLANE II: 108%
programs.                     (1) PLANE II: 25.00           protected budget.                 fosters conditions for the   (2) Health reform: 60%
                              (2) Health reform: 14.76                                        future continuation of            Epidemiological shield:
                                   Epidemiological shield: (1) PLANE II: 100%                 reform.                      (3) Chagas, 80%
                              (3) Chagas, 5.85              (2) Health reform: 80%                                         (4) Malaria, 45%
                              (4) Malaria, 0.74                  Epidemiological shield:      Uninterrupted delivery of    (5) Tuberculosis, 80%
                              (5) Tuberculosis, 0.64        (3) Chagas, 80%                   these key social programs    (6) Universal mother-child health
                              (6) Universal mother-child (4) Malaria, 75%                     will mitigate the adverse         insurance, 143%
                              health insurance, 11.60       (5) Tuberculosis, 85%             effects of the crisis on the (7) Extended immunization: 47%
                              (7) Extended immunization: (6) Universal mother-child           poor.                        (8) Education reform: 57%
                              4.02                                                                                         (9) Education quality (FPS): 108%
                              (8) Education reform: 25.40        health insurance, 75%        Levels of budget execution
                              (9) Education quality (FPS): (7) Extended immunization:         will be confirmed by the     (ii) The executed total budget reached 88% of the
                              18.81                         95%                               Ministry of Finance.         protected budget, a higher execution percentage
                                                            (8) Education reform: 75%                                      than the total public investment (78%), promoting
                                                            (9) Education quality (FPS):                                   a counter cyclical impact that favored the pro-poor
                                                            100%                                                           expenditure and investment.




                                                                                      - 25 -

    B. SOCIAL PROTECTION - Workfare
    Goals: Protection of the poorest people through a program of temporary employment; achievement of program quality through transparent management practices;
    and support of the Government's counter-cyclical, temporary public employment strategy.
                                      ACTION PRIOR TO                     ACTION PRIOR TO
     ISSUE/OBJECTIVE                  RELEASE OF FIRST                  RELEASE OF SECOND                EXPECTED RESULTS                            ACHIEVEMENTS
                                           TRANCHE                             TRANCHE

B1. PLANE II:                   Contracts are signed by DUF At minimum 300,000                        The number of jobs generated The DUF contracted the Administrative Entity
Implementation of the           with the administrator of            temporary jobs of                will be reported by DUF.       (UNDP), the Wholesale Entities (PRODEM,
Government's program of         PLANE II and with labor              one-month's duration have                                       ANED and IDEPRO), and the Supervisory
rapid response to the crisis,   recruitment intermediaries for been generated by the                                                 Entities (CAEM and CAHE).
which creates large-scale       implementing about 2,500             program.
temporary employment            projects.                                                                                            With the PLANE II 6,026 projects were approved
through community-based                                                                                                              and 5,906 projects were executed, through the
projects in urban and rural                                                                                                          Employment in Services Program (PES), the
areas.                                                                                                                               Works with Jobs Program (POE), and the
                                                                                                                                     Assistance to Municipal Governments Program
Objective: Protection of the                                                                                                         (PAGM).
poorest people whose incomes
were reduced when they lost                                                                                                          During 2003, more than 341,000 one-month
employment through the                                                                                                               temporary jobs were generated and in the 12
re-launch of PLANE.                                                                                                                  months of the PLANE II 389,000 temporary jobs
                                                                                                                                     were generated.

B2. Enhancement of program The revised technical guide for (i) The contract for the audit of PLANE performance is                    A partial waiver was granted for the second
quality and effectiveness.      program operation is issued by the financial operations of            improved through a formal      disbursement of the Credit.
                                DUF, indicating:                     PLANE II is signed; and          donor consultation
Objective: Assurance that the (i) environmental safeguards           (ii) The terms of reference for mechanism, an expanded          The DUF prepared and disseminated
program complies with           and monitoring measures;             and the first progress report of scope of evaluation, financial administrative manuals and procedures: (i) on the
environmental protection        (ii) prioritization criteria for the the evaluation of the impact of audit, and transparent and      operational cycle of the projects, (ii) for the
measures, targeting and         selection of subprojects; and        the program are issued by        clearly defined project        entities that participate in the process, (iii)
selection of projects and       (iii) the agreed wage rate.          DUF.                             eligibility and approval       payment of commissions, (iv) terms of reference
beneficiaries are conducted in a                                                                      criteria and procedures.       for professionals, and (v) results table.
transparent manner, and an
analytical mechanism for                                                                                                             In August 2004, the External Financial Audit was
deriving the economic and                                                                                                            delivered, with a generally satisfactory evaluation
social impacts of the program                                                                                                        of the program.
is developed.
                                                                                                                                     In December 2003, a consulting firm was
                                                                                                                                     contracted to perform the evaluation of the
                                                                                                                                     PLANE, whose final report was delivered in
                                                                                                                                     February 2004.

B3. National Fund for           (i) Resolution containing new        The study on options for         Municipalities will provide    The objective of the CONAPES Resolution of
Productive and Social           and reduced rates of municipal increased financing of                 counterpart financing to FPS November 7, 2002 was to reduce municipal
Investment (FPS):               counterpart financing is issued labor-intensive projects is           projects earlier, improving    matching funds for the projects promoted by the
Program adjustments in          by CONAPES; and                      completed by FPS.                project implementation         FPS. The FPS decided to implement the measure
selected conditions of          (ii) Implementing rules and                                           overall.                       starting in 2003, based on agreements with the
municipal co-financing and in regulations on the new rates are                                                                       municipalities.
promotion of municipal          issued by the FPS
projects easily implemented     Departmental Approval                                                                                In November 2003, the FPS prepared alternatives
during periods of crisis.       Committee.                                                                                           for the financing of labor-intensive projects, to
                                                                                                                                     adjust the selection of municipal cofinancing
Objective: Easing of                                                                                                                 conditions and the promotion of municipal
counterpart fund requirements                                                                                                        projects of easy implementation in periods of
for municipalities,                                                                                                                  crisis.
identification of other
counter-cyclical,                                                                                                                    In May 2004, the DUF prepared guidelines to
labor-generating mechanisms                                                                                                          adjust the National Compensation Policy, seeking
for crisis response.                                                                                                                 to direct municipal investment, in accordance
                                                                                                                                     with the sectoral policies aimed at meeting the
                                                                                                                                     Millennium Development Goals.




                                                                                             - 26 -

  C. HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
  Goals: Maintenance of and improvements in the management of the sector to increase coverage and enhance effectiveness; improvement in the access to health
  services of the poorest in remote locations; and strengthening the rights of indigenous women to appropriate services.
                                   ACTION PRIOR TO                ACTION PRIOR TO
    ISSUE/OBJECTIVE                 RELEASE OF FIRST            RELEASE OF SECOND                EXPECTED RESULTS                                 ACHIEVEMENTS
                                         TRANCHE                        TRANCHE
C1. SEDES:                    Performance agreements for                                    Monitoring report by the           Performance Agreements were signed between the
Signing of performance        2003 signed between the nine                                  Ministry of Health on              Ministry of Health and the nine Departmental Health
agreements with               SEDES and the Ministry of                                     compliance with performance        Services (SEDES) for 2003.
departmental Health           Health.                                                       agreements will validate the
Services (SEDES).                                                                           achievement of the following       The Agreements have the objective of improving
                                                                                            targets:                           efficiency in the delivery of health services, through
Objective: Improvement in                                                                   (i) 59 Health Brigades and         the definition of performance and accountability
efficiency of health service                                                                contracted health assistants       indicators, incorporating goals with regard to: (i)
delivery as seen through the                                                                serving 1,400 communities;         coverage in municipalities and communities of the
performance and                                                                             (ii) 316,000 households in         Mobile Health Teams (BRISAS) and Community
accountability of SEDES in                                                                  chagas-affected areas sprayed,     Health Assistants (ASISTES), (ii) communicable and
complying with national                                                                     reduction of malaria IPA to        vaccine-preventable disease control (Chagas' Disease,
health priorities.                                                                          6/1,000 habitants, completion of Malaria, Tuberculosis, Epidemiological Shield, PAI).
                                                                                            200,000 bacillus diagnoses with
                                                                                            tests;                             The achievements regarding the expected results for
                                                                                            (iii) 189,000 under-1 children     2003 were:
                                                                                            vaccinated with Pentavalent.       (i) 59 Health Brigades and 1,400 health assistants
                                                                                                                               contracted serving 2,500 communities;
                                                                                                                               (ii) more than 426,000 households in chagas-affected
                                                                                                                               areas sprayed, reduction of malaria IPA to 5.5/1,000
                                                                                                                               habitants, and completion of more than 234,000
                                                                                                                               bacillus diagnoses with tests;
                                                                                                                               (iii) more than 206,000 under-1 children vaccinated
                                                                                                                               with Pentavalent.
C2. SUMI: Ensuring that       (i) The law establishing SUMI is Regulations specifying       SUMI evaluation report will        The SUMI was created through Law 2426 of
SUMI program benefits         passed by the National           procedures allowing SUMI validate the achievement of the November 2002 and is in effect starting in 2003, with
reach the poorest.            Congress; and                    to reimburse transportation following targets:                  universal, comprehensive, and free of charge
                              (ii) The implementing            costs incurred by the rural  (i) 58% coverage of institutional coverage. The SUMI provides health services at all
Objective: Increasing access regulations, setting out          poor in accessing secondary deliveries;                         levels of care of the National Health System, to
of mothers and children of    operational procedures on        and tertiary health care are (ii) treatment of about 127,000 pregnant women up to six months after delivery and to
the rural poor to second ­    services fees (costos de         issued by the Ministry of    cases of IRAS and pneumonia        children less than five years of age.
and third ­ level services.   prestación) and transfers to     Health.                      among under 5 children; and
                              municipalities are issued by the                              (iii) SUMI reimbursement           The Ministry of Health issued Ministerial Resolution
                              Ministry of Health.                                           system in operation.               0244, establishing that the SUMI may reimburse
                                                                                                                               travel expenses, both land and water, incurred by poor
                                                                                                                               people living in rural areas, so that they can have
                                                                                                                               access to secondary and tertiary health services. The
                                                                                                                               SUMI is already reimbursing travel expenses.

                                                                                                                               The achievements regarding the expected results for
                                                                                                                               2003 were:
                                                                                                                               (i) 55% coverage of institutional deliveries;
                                                                                                                               (ii) treatment of about 140,000 cases of IRAS and
                                                                                                                               pneumonia among under 5 children; and
                                                                                                                               (iii) SUMI reimbursement system in operation.
C3. Rights of the pregnant    The Bill of Rights (Carta de                                  Ministry of Health report on the The Ministry of Health adopted through Ministerial
woman:                        Derechos de la Mujer                                          campaign to promote the Bill of Resolution the Bill of Rights of Pregnant Women that
Empowering indigenous         Embarazada) is issued by the                                  Rights (including measures         includes their rights to receive care at no cost, good
groups.                       Ministry of Health.                                           identified for the protection of   treatment and respect for traditional cultural practices.
                                                                                            those rights) will further increase
Objective: Improvement in                                                                   the awareness and empowerment
the access of indigenous                                                                    of indigenous women in regard The Ministry of Health is implementing a culturally
groups to health services.                                                                  to their rights to culturally      adapted dissemination program, through radio spots
                                                                                            appropriate health services.       and television videos broadcasted in Spanish,
                                                                                                                               Quechua, Aymara and other native languages.




                                                                                         - 27 -

  D. EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM
  Goals: Development of comprehensive sectoral strategy that includes identification of programs for vulnerable school-age populations and analysis of enrollment
  and attendance patterns during the crisis and options to address identified problems.
                                        ACTION PRIOR TO                  ACTION PRIOR TO
      ISSUE/OBJECTIVE                   RELEASE OF FIRST              RELEASE OF SECOND                  EXPECTED RESULTS                            ACHIEVEMENTS
                                             TRANCHE                          TRANCHE

D1. Strategic Sector Plan:         A technical proposal is issued The draft Strategic Plan,        Issuance by the Ministry of            Waiver was granted for the second
Adoption of the Strategic Sector   by the Ministry of Education     incorporating the              Education of this awaited sector plan disbursement of the Credit.
Plan, with emphasis on policy      describing the timetable for     recommendations for            will enable donors to advance their
response to evidence of declining consultations with the National addressing any adverse trends own programming of technical and          An initial draft of the Strategic Sector Plan
school enrollments and attendance Congress for Education on the in enrollment and attendance of financial support to the education        was consulted with representatives at the
of children from the poorest       long-term Strategic Sectoral     poor children, has been        sector.                                departmental level of the country.
income quintile.                   Plan, which shall include the    presented by the Ministry of
                                   terms of reference of an         Education for consideration of Continuation of education reform in UDAPE prepared a study on the causes of
Objective: Consolidation of        empirical analysis of school     the National Congress for      2003 will benefit at least 1.2 million school absence of children from the
education reform at the primary    attendance and enrollment,       Education.                     school children, 5,000 primary         poorest economic quintiles whose results
level and phased introduction of   setting out objectives, scope,                                  teachers who will be trained in        were incorporated in the Strategic Plan.
reform at secondary, tertiary, and and expected outputs.                                           bilingual education, and 3,000
non formal levels, and                                                                             headmasters who will be trained in     In December 2003, the Ministry of
identification of high-risk                                                                        school administration.                 Education issued a Ministerial Resolution
populations, especially the poorest                                                                                                       expanding the composition of the National
children at the primary level and                                                                  917 education quality projects will    Board of Education (CONED).
the working teenagers at the                                                                       be executed through FPS, including
secondary level.                                                                                   563 in school infrastructure, 299 in The first regular session of the CONED
                                                                                                   training, 37 in equipment provision, was held in January 2004, where its
                                                                                                   and 18 in pre-investments studies.     organization and operation was regulated.

                                                                                                                                          The second regular session of the CONED
                                                                                                                                          was held in March 2004, where the call
                                                                                                                                          made by the Ministry of Education for the
                                                                                                                                          II National Education Congress was
                                                                                                                                          approved. The Congress is programmed
                                                                                                                                          for January 2005.

                                                                                                                                          The Ministry of Education prepared the
                                                                                                                                          Multi­Annual Operation Plan (POMA):
                                                                                                                                          2004-2008, which is the basis of the
                                                                                                                                          Strategic Sector Plan that is under
                                                                                                                                          discussion within the CONED, to
                                                                                                                                          subsequently be presented at the II
                                                                                                                                          National Education Congress.




                                                                                        - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00            0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00            0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)




                                                - 29 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March 2003                9     Team Leader, Education Spec.,                         S
                                               Economists, consultants
               April 2003               11     Team Leader, Sr. Education                            S
                                               Spec., Operations Officers,
                                               Consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 14, 2003             11     Team Leader, Economists,                              S
                                               Operations Officers, Lawyer,
                                               Consultants, Procurement
                                               Spec., Disbursement,
                                                                                                     S

 Supervision
               November 10,               9    Team Leader, Economists,              S               S
               2003                            Operations Officer,
                                               Consultant, Social Protection
                                               Specialists, Health
                                               Specialists, Education
                                               Sppecialists


 ICR
               November 10,              4     Task Manager, 2                                       S
               2004                            Consultants, Task Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               7.70                        65,051.07
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        5                          30,000
  Supervision                                6.5                       38,239.00
  ICR                                        6.0                       11,948.00
  Total




                                               - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia. January 8, 2004.
Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia. May 21, 1998.
Development Credit Agreement. Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Credit. June 23, 2003.
Implementation Completion Report for a Health Sector Reform Project. June 9, 2004.
Implementation Completion Report for a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for
Decentralization. June 28, 2004.
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IDA for the Proposed Emergency
Economic Recovery Project. December 16, 2003.
Program Document for a Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Credit. May 19, 2003.
Program Document for a Proposed Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for
Decentralization. May 19, 2003.
Program Document for a Proposed Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit.
May 17, 2004.
Public Expenditure Review. March 27, 2004.
Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Credit. Release of the Second Tranche. Tranche Release
Document. November 11, 2003.
Various IMF Reviews of Bolivia's Stand-By Arrangement.
Various Project Status Reports.
Various Reports by Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, VIPFE, DUF and PLANE.




                                             - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments - Original




                                       - 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

