PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) FOR THE
BOLIVIA SOCIAL SAFETY NET STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Project Name         Bolivia - Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Credit
Region               Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector               Multi-sector, Social Protection, Health, Education
Project ID           P082700
Implementing Agency  Ministry of Finance and Public Investment
Palacio de las Comiinicacionies, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Environmental Category  U
Date PID Prepared    April 25, 2003
Appraisal (planned)  May 12, 2003
Board Date (plannied)  June 17, 2003
1.    Background: 13olivia's recent years of economic slowdown and declining per
capita incomes reached a critical stage when violent civil disturbances took
place in February 2003. Thirty three people died and many more were
wounded. Although Bolivia has had a strong and deep heritage of structural
reform and policy innovation, economic vulnerability to external shocks and
poor private sector response has constrained the performance of the economy
and in recent years caused an increase in poverty incidence and
unemployment. The Government, already weakened by its minority status
and lack of policy consensus, has nonetheless taken urgent action to mitigate
social tensions, stabilize a deteriorating fiscal situation, and to launch new
spending initiatives within a revised 2003 budget. Committed to sustaining
medium term reform initiatives, the government needs urgent bridging support
to help improve its economy, to help deliver on its strengthened social safety
net program, and to finance its fiscal deficit.
2.    The international cooperation community has been active in putting together
elements of the required fiscal and social packages. An IMF standby
agreement is in place, and bilateral donors have committed resources to
budget support and safety net activities. The proposed Social Safety Net SAC
is an integral part of this broader effort.
3.    Project Objectives and Description: The Social Safety Net Program and the
credit for financing the program are near-term support measures to help the
Government bridge a financing gap in 2003 in the provision of key social
services during this period of fiscal adjustment, to contain erosion in social



outcomes for the poor, and address the economic underpinnings of rising
social tensions.
4.    Specifically, the program would (i) protect the budgets of nine key programs
(PLANE II workfare program, Health Reform, Epidemiological shield for
chagas, malaria, tuberculosis, universal health insurance for mother and child
care, extended immunization program, education reform and education
quality), that are subject to high volatility in budgets and expenditure
execution and are key to the containment of further erosion of social outcomes
and achievement of counter-cyclical goals of the 2003 budget, (ii) sustain and,
in some areas, strengthen key social sector reforms of this government and its
predecessors that are pro-poor and provide safety net services, (iii) provide
technical supervision support over the bridging period (June 2003 to March
2004) in key social safety net areas.
5.    Through these efforts the government hopes to defuse social tensions, and to
contain any further erosion in social indicators. The time horizon is a
transition period of 9-10 months, during which stability, both social and fiscal,
can be restored, and the foundation for a resumption of medium term reform
put in place. T he Bank will be engaged over the period through intensive
supervision activities of social safety net programs and of budget
management.
6.    Project Cost and Financing: The proposed SAC will be made to the
Republic of Bolivia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Public
Investment. The Credit is estimated to be SDR [xxx] (US$ 35 million
equivalent) and is expected to be released in two tranches at standard IDA
terms.
7.    Project Implementation: The lead counterpart for the credit and program is
the Vice Minister of Finance and Public Investment. Sectoral counterparts in
education, health and social protection have participated in preparation and
constitute an informal steering group for the credit. With technical
supervision support from IDA, the Vice-Minister will coordinate the
achievement of first and second tranche actions.
8.    Environmental Safeguards: This Social Safety Net Credit has no direct
impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it
has an environmental category of C, which does not require an environmental
assessment. To ensure compliance with environmental and social safeguards
an environmental screening process will be carried out for sub-projects
financed through FPS and PLANE programs. A revised operational manual
that incorporates screening criteria and procedures for FPS funded sub-
projects has already been prepared by the government. Submission of a
similar manual for PLANE is a condition for first tranche release under the
proposed credit.



9.     Contact Information:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Managers: Christopher Chamberlin / Alfonso de Guzman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2349 / (202) 473-2527
Fax: (202) 522-1201
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may be
changed or not be included in the final project.



