Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3787-BO  
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Social Safety Net Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3787-BO 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
May 12, 2003, (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve effective social protection in the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in 
two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
–
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ANED” means ‘
Asociación Nacional Ecuménica de Desarrollo’
,
the 
national ecumenical association for development, established and operating under the Laws 
of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“CONAPES” means ‘
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
’, 
the Borrower’s national council for economic and social policy, established and operating 
under the Laws of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“DUF” means ‘
Directorio Único de Fondos
’, the Unified Directorate of 
Funds within the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of sustainable development, established 
and operating under the Laws of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR18,100,000 to be disbursed by the Association on or after the Effective Date; 
 
(f) “FPS” 
means 
‘
Fondo Nacional de Inversión Productiva y Social’
,
the 
Borrower’s national productive and social investment fund established by the Borrower 
Page  4
-
3
–
pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 25984, dated November 16, 2000 and to Law No. 2235, 
dated March 31, 2001; 
 
(g) 
“National Congress of Education” means the Borrower’s participative 
meeting which convenes periodically in order to discuss public policies in the area of 
education with the participation, 
inter alia
,
of
the Borrower’s executive branch, the 
Borrower’s national education administration and the teachers’ associations; 
 
(h) “PLANE 
II” 
means 
‘
Plan Nacional de Empleo de Emergencia
’, the 
Borrower’s national emergency employment plan, established and operating pursuant to 
Supreme Decree No. 26849, dated November 20, 2002; 
 
(i) “PRODEM” 
means 
‘
Fundación para la Promoción y el Desarrollo de la 
Micro-Empresa
’, a foundation established and operating under the Laws of the Borrower 
for the promotion and development of micro-enterprises; 
 
(j) 
“Second Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR7,300,000 to be disbursed by the Association upon compliance by the Borrower with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
 
(k) “SEDES” 
means 
‘
Servicios Departamentales de Salud
’, each and all of the 
Borrower’s nine departmental services within the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of health; 
 
(l) “SUMI” 
means 
‘
Seguro Universal Materno-Infantil
’, the Borrower’s 
universal mother-child health insurance, established and operating under Law No. 2426, 
dated November 21, 2002; and 
 
(m) 
“UNDP” means United Nations Development Program. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty five million and four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, 
Page  5
-
4
–
a
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account for the Second 
Tranche unless: 
 
(i) 
the proceeds of the First Tranche have been withdrawn from the 
Credit Account; and 
 
(ii) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (A) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory to the 
Association; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved, the macroeconomic framework or the actions 
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress, restored the 
macroeconomic framework or taken actions, then the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Page  6
-
5
–
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as 
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter, pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2013, and ending 
February 15, 2023.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
February 15, 2023, shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive 
years the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
Page  7
-
6
–
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment 
of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the 
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 or Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  8
-
7
–
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a
significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action 
or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Association, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action 
listed under Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date September 22, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Page  9
-
8
–
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
FINANZA 
 
La 
Paz, 
Bolivia     (591-2) 
235 
9955 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
–
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By /s/ Jaime Aparicio Otero 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10 
–
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower. 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan. 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11 
–
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account 
of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Page  13
-
12 
–
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13 
–
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to 
this Agreement 
 
Budget  Protection 
 
1. 
The Borrower’s 2003 budget proposal has been approved, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, by the Borrower’s legislative branch and 
became Law No. 2449. 
 
2. 
The Borrower’s 2003 budget approved as set forth in paragraph 1 above, assigns the 
following appropriations to the following nine social programs:  
 
(i) 
PLANE II: US$25 million equivalent; 
 
(ii) 
Health reform: US$14.76 million equivalent; 
 
(iii) 
Epidemiological shield for Chagas: US$5.85 million equivalent; 
 
(iv) 
Epidemiological shield for Malaria: US$0.74 million equivalent; 
 
(v) 
Epidemiological shield for Tuberculosis: US$0.64 million 
equivalent; 
 
(vi) 
Universal mother-child insurance: US$11.60 million equivalent; 
 
(vii) 
Extended immunization: US$4.02 million equivalent; 
 
(viii) 
Education reform: US$25.40 million equivalent; and 
 
(ix) 
Education quality: US$18.81 million equivalent. 
 
Social Protection and Workfare 
 
3. 
A consultant contract has been signed between DUF and UNDP to administer 
PLANE II, in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
 
4. 
DUF has signed separate contracts with each of PRODEM and ANED for recruiting 
temporary labor under PLANE II, both contracts in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Page  15
-
14 
–
5. 
A revised technical guide for the operation of PLANE II has been adopted 
by DUF in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
 
6. 
CONAPES has issued a Resolution, dated November 7, 2002, containing 
new and reduced rates of municipal counterpart financing for investment projects 
and FPS has issued related implementing rules and regulations through the Minutes 
of the meeting of its Technical Committee No. 02/003-03, dated January 31, 2003, 
both in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
 
Health Sector Reform 
 
7. 
Nine performance management agreements have been signed between the 
Borrower’s Ministry in charge of health and each of the Borrower’s nine SEDES regarding 
the delivery of public health services, all in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has established SUMI and related rules and regulations have 
been issued by the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of health through Resolution No. 
736, dated December 31, 2002, all in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
9. 
The Borrower’s Ministry in charge of health has issued Ministerial 
Resolution No. 414, dated July 31, 2002, with regard to the rights of pregnant 
women, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Education Sector Reform 
 
10. 
The Borrower’s Ministry in charge of education has adopted a schedule for 
consultations with the Borrower’s National Congress of Education for the future 
adoption of a strategic sector plan for education, in form and substance acceptable 
to the Association. 
 
11. 
The Borrower has presented to the Association terms of reference for a study on 
school attendance and enrollment in the Borrower’s territory, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. 
Page  16
-
15 
–
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) 
of this Agreement 
 
Budget Protection 
 
1. 
Evidence has been presented to the Association of the satisfactory execution 
of the budgets for seven of the following nine programs, at the following levels of 
execution, and of the satisfactory execution of 85% or more of the total aggregate 
2003 appropriation, as listed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the 
combination of all nine programs, all in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association:  
 
(i) 
PLANE II: 100% of US$25 million equivalent; 
 
(ii) 
Health reform: 80% of US$14.76 million equivalent; 
 
(iii) 
Epidemiological shield for Chagas: 80% of US$5.85 million 
equivalent; 
 
(iv) 
Epidemiological shield for Malaria: 75% US$0.74 million 
equivalent; 
 
(v) 
Epidemiological shield for Tuberculosis: 85% of US$0.64 
million equivalent; 
 
(vi) 
Universal mother-child insurance: 75% of US$11.60 million 
equivalent; 
 
(vii) 
Extended immunization: 95% of US$4.02 million equivalent; 
 
(viii) 
Education reform: 75% of US$25.40 million equivalent; and 
 
(ix) 
Education quality: 100% of US$18.81 million equivalent. 
 
Social Protection and Workfare 
 
2. 
DUF has submitted to the Association a report on the implementation of 
PLANE II, confirming the generation during calendar year 2003 of a minimum of 
Page  17
-
16 
–
300,000 temporary employments of a one-month duration, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
DUF has presented to the Association: (a) terms of reference for the 
evaluation of program impact of PLANE II, setting out objectives, scope, and 
methodology; (b) a progress report on impact evaluation, describing steps taken, 
information obtained, and preliminary findings; and (c) a signed contract for the 
audit of PLANE II financial operations, all in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association.  
 
4. 
FPS has presented to the Association a study on options for increased 
financing of labor-intensive projects, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Health Sector Reform  
 
5. 
The Borrower’s Ministry in charge of health has issued a regulation setting 
forth procedures by which SUMI may reimburse transportation costs incurred by 
the rural poor in accessing secondary and tertiary health care, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
Education Sector Reform 
 
6. 
The Borrower has presented to the Association evidence, in the form of a 
copy of a transmittal letter signed by the Borrower’s Minister in charge of 
education, that the draft of the strategic sector plan for education, referred to in 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, has been presented to the 
Borrower’s National Congress of Education for its consideration and in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association. 
 
