            MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATIONOF THEPRESIDENT
                                              OF THE
                     INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                                TO THEEXECUTrVEDIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSEDPARTIALWAIVER OF ONE AND FULL WAIVER OF TWO CONDITIONS


           FOR BOLIVIA SOCIALSAFETYNET STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT
                       FOR A RELEASE OF TEE SECONDTRAhTCHE

                                              CREDIT
                                        (CREDITNO. 3787)



      1.      I submit for your approvala proposedwaiver of conditionsfor a proposed release of a
     tranche in the amount of US$10 million to continuesupportingthe Governmentof Bolivia to help
     it respond to urgent social needs and deepeningfiscal pressures, both of which have been
     worsened by the recent civil conflict. Progress in implementingthe credit has been impressivein
     light of the severe civil strifeof October 2003, which brought most governmentprogramsto a
     standstill, and the subsequentchange of Governmentwhich resulted in new leadershipfor all
     governmententities and a reorganization of functionsamongthem. Governmentremains on
     track for achievementof five of the six conditionsbefore the closingdate of the credit. A fill
     waiver for condition 1 in Schedule3 (BudgetExecution) is sought on the grounds set forth in
     paragraphs 9 and 10. A partial waiver is requested for condition3 (progressreport on Impact
     Evaluation)based on groundsthat the Impact Evaluationwas plannedto begin earlynext year, as
     set forth in paragraph 15. A full waiver is sought for condition 6 (Education Sector Strategy
     presented to National Education Congress)on the groundsthat the civil strife ledto a
     postponementof the Conferenceuntil March next year, as set forth in paragraph22.

     2.       Recommendation. I recommend that the ExecutiveDirectorsapprovethe waiver
     Bank will notifythe Borrowerthat the Second Trancheof US$lO million (SDR7.3 million) is
     referred to in paragraph 22 to permit the release of the Second Tranche. Upon such approval,the

     available for disbursement.

                                                                               James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                                       President


                                                                                by ShengmanBang




     Attachment
     December4,2003


                                      Vice President: David de Ferranti
                              CountryManagement: Marcelo Giugale
                                     Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada
                                  Task Team Leader: ChristopherChamberlin


                                         BOLIVIA
           SOCIAL SAFETY NET STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                   (CREDIT NO.3787-BO)
  RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE -PARTIAL WAIVER OF ONE AND
                         FULL WAIVER OF TWO CONDITIONS

                            TRANCHE RELEASE DOCUMENT


1.       The US $35million (SDR 25.4 million) Social SafetyNet StructuralAdjustment
Credit (SSNSAC) for Bolivia was approvedby the Board on June 17,2003;the Credit
Agreement was declared effectiveon June 26,2003; the First Tranche of US $25 million
was released on June 27,2003 with all tranche criteriamet. The closing date of this
project is June 30,2004. Conditions for the secondtranche release are specified in
Schedule3 to the Credit Agreement, and are detailed in the Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
dated May 14,2003.

2.
disrupted Bolivia's developmentthis year, describesthe Government'sprogress in
        Thismemorandum,after a summary of social and economicevents that have
implementingthe actionsnecessaryto meet specific conditionsfor the release of the
Second Tranche. Progresshas been impressivein light of the severe civil strife of
October 2003, which brought most governmentprograms to a standstill, and the ensuing
change of Governmentwhich resulted in new leadershipfor all governmententities and a
reorganizationof functionsamongthem. Governmentremains on track for achievement
of five of the six conditions before the closingdate of the credit. Budget Execution
targets for nine socialprograms, the first condition, are unlikely to be met due to the
exceptionalcircumstancesthat occurred late in the fiscal year: a sharp declinein
Governmentrevenues; the near paralysis of governmentbefore and after the civil strife;
and the suddenresignationof the previous administration and the installation of its
successor.

3.      The new Governmentis seeking an earlierthan anticipateddisbursementof the
Second Tranche, to help it respond to urgent socialneeds and deepening fiscalpressures,
both of which have been worsenedby the recent civil conflict. A full waiver for
condition 1in Schedule 3 (BudgetExecution) is sought on the grounds set forth in
paragraphs 9 and 10. A partial waiver is requested for condition 3 (progress report on
Impact Evaluation) based on groundsthat the ImpactEvaluationwas planned to begin
early next year, as set forth in paragraph 15. A full waiver is sought for condition6
(Education Sector Strategypresented to National Education Congress)on the grounds
that the civil strifeled to a postponement of the Conferenceuntil March next year, as set
forth in paragraph 22.

I.      Economic and Social Conditions in Bolivia and the Government's Social
Safety Net Program

4.      Bolivia has endurednearly 5 years of economic stagnation and negative per capita
income growth, due to exogenous shocks that held back growth in key sectors, such as
the regional crisis in Brazil and Argentina that sharply reduced exports and remittances.
Internally, the essential policy to eradicate coca production has impacted rural incomes.
Equally important in explainingthe poor growth outcomes has been the growing tension
and social unrest, pushed by         economic stagnation, increasing poverty and rising
unemployment. An escalating trend of social unrest emerged - with serious conflicts in
April 2000, September/October 2000, January 2002 and February 2003. The latter
episode involved over 30 deaths in La Paz and undermined the admmistration of
President Sanchez de Lozada, who survived the February events, but in a weakened
political position.   Protests and civil strife resumed in September and culminated in
October 2003 with violent clashes between the Government and various groups manning
road blocks around the capital, La Paz, and other cities. President Sanchez de Lozada
was compelled to resign in late October, and the Vice President, Carlos Mesa, assumed
constitutionallymandated leadership of the country.
5.      President Mesa has put in motion both a political and economic calendar of key
initiatives and priorities. First, he has proposed a new Hydrocarbons Law, with the aim
of raising the effectivetax contribution of the oil and gas companies currently operating
in Bolivia to levels more consistent with internationalpractice. Oncethis Law is enacted,
the President believes chances for a successful outcome of a gas project referendum, his
second priority, will be high. The referendum could take place in the second quarter of
2004. The third priority on the President's agenda is to call for a Constitutional
Assembly. While the assembly was initially proposed as a way to codify the rights of
indigenous peoples, it will by definition have unlimited powers. It could, for instance,
give Bolivia a new federalist charter and establish mechanisms for revenue sharing across
regions. On the economic front, he has committed to restoring macro stability and
economic progress and has sought and received support from the international
community; he will launch a special program of micro investments and services in

Although these steps represent a strong policy stance and are receiving strong
socially unstable areas, such as El Alto; and he will launch an anti coxruption program.
international support, the present stability in Bolivia is uncertain and fragile. The social
and economic tensions that have driven civil unrest in 2003 remain, and the opposition
has been strengthened as a result of the October events.
6.      In regard to the social safety net program, both the last and current
administrationshave pursued a strengthened safety net as a central element of their crisis
response strategy.      Two objectives have guided resource allocation and policy
development. First, key social programs in health, education and social protection have
been protected from budget cuts and have been designed to serve as counter cyclical
government interventions. This effort is readily evident in PLANE (National Plan for
Emergency Employment), the Government'spremier safety net program, which provides
short term employment to the poor in maintenance and repair activities utilizing low and


                                              2

unskilled workers. The present administration is preparing a program of investment in
high povertyhigh unemployment areas such as El Alto, in which PLANE is expected to
play a prominent role. In the health sector, the government's universal health insurance
program, SUMI (UniversalMother and Child Insurance), and the national disease control
programs have been the lead vehicles to ensure that the poor retain access and actually
use health services during the crisis period. Two education reform programs have been
protected so that education services are sustained.        The second element of the
Government's safety net program is the improvement of safety net programs through
specific policy changes to help direct interventionsto the poor. These changes include,
for example, the just introducedprogram to reimburse the poor in rural areas for travel to
remote health facilities to receive emergency care. For PLANE 11, the changes have
included more transparency in the monitoring of the program through regular donor
group reports, external evaluations, independent audits, and increased municipal
accountabilityfor the identificationand selectionof subprojects.

II.    Achievementof the First Tranche Conditions

7.     As part of the fust tranche of this program, the Bolivian Government (under the
previous administration)took severalkey measures that strengthenedits social safety net.
A summary description of the actionstaken prior to presentation of the loan to the Bank's
Board on May 19,2003 is presented below.

    0  The 2003 budget was approvedwith US$ 106million provided for protected
       social programs, a 3% increasefrom 2002 budget execution. Workfare, health and
       educationbasic services,and reform projects were protected with amounts
       enough to maintain coverageand quality of servicesand, in some cases, scale-up
       reform activities. In this way, even though the fiscal problemswere worsening,
       the Government sent apowerful signal of its decisionto protect fundamental
       social expenditures.
       Reconsidering a previous decisionto shut down PLANE, the workfareprogram,
       the'Governmentdecided to launch a second-phase (PLANE 11).A budget of US$
       25 million was included for this purpose. The Governmentselected a new
       administrator(UNDP) as well as other organizationsto register and assign labor
       and to superviseprojects. The registration of workers and call for local sub-
       projects began in late March 2003,
       In health, the Governmenttook measures for improvingequityand efficiencyby:
       (i) reformingits non-contributory public insurance scheme with an ambitious
       policy of universal coverage for children and mothers (SUMI); (ii) maintaining
       and improvingperformanceagreementswith departmental health services; and
       (iii) approvinga Bill of Rights of the Pregnant Woman that focuses on the rights
       of indigenouswomen to have culturally adapted delivery services.
       In education,the Governmentprotected expendituresof the EducationReform
       Program and presented a plan to conductpublic consultationson a Strategic
       Sector Plan.




                                             3

111.    Actions Taken to Fulfill the Second TrancheRelease Conditions

8.      This sectionpresentsthe actionstaken to fulfillthe SecondTranche conditionsas
set out in Schedule3 of the CreditAgreement. Of the 6 conditions for the Release of
the SecondTranche, only the first condition (Budget Execution)will be difficultto attain
withinthe project period. A severe decline in Governmentrevenues, the near paralysis of
government before and after the civil strife, and resignationof the former administration
and the installation of a completelynew team has slowed government execution late in
the fiscal year, from which a full recovery is unlikely. A full waiver is sought for this

period. To respond to the Government'surgent need for supportbefore the end of the
condition. The other five policy actions are all on track for compliance withinthe project
calendaryear, a waiver of condition6 and partial waiver of condition3 are sought
because the relevant actions,due to technicalconsiderations, cannotbe accelerated into
compliance this year. The grounds for the waiver requests are discussedin detail in the
sectionsthat follow.

A.      Budget Protection

    Schedule 3, Section 1: Evidence has been presented to the Association of the
    satisfactory execution of the budgets for seven of the followingnine programs, at the
    followinglevels of execution,and of the satisfactoryexecutionof 85% or more of the
    total appropriation, as listed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all in
    form and subshce acceptable to the Association:

                    PLANE 11: 100%of US$25 million equivalent;
                    Health reform: 80% of US$14.76 million equivalent;
                    Epidemiological shield for Chagas: 80% of US$5.85 million
                    equivalent;
                    Epidemiological shield for Malaria: 75% US$0.74 million equivalent;
                    Epidemiological shield for Tuberculosis: 85% of US$0.64 million
                    equivalent;
                    Universal mother-child insurance: 75% of US$l 1.60 million
                    equivalent;
                    Extended immunization: 95% of US$4.02 million equivalent;
                    Education reform: 75% of US$25.40 million equivalent;and
                    Education quality: 100%of USl8.81 million equivalent.

9.     This conditionhas not been met and a waiver is soueht. The budget execution
floors containedin the first condition were agreed based on historical data on budget
expenditureresults, and thus assumed an averageperformance in a year (2003)that had
alreadybegun under unusual circumstances-a long delay inthe approval of the budget
(April2003) and a first round of civil conflictin February. However, the historical data
showed clearlythat in nearly all of the nine programs, expenditureswere heavily back
loaded in the last quarter of the calendar year. This provided confidencethat the targets
could be attained, and a formulawas agreed that provided for a limited measure of



                                              4

flexibility, so that shortfalls in one or two of the nine programs would not imperil the
entire program. It was not assumedthat the governmentwould be paralyzed by a
prolonged and severe episode of unrest combinedwith a changein government. Those
events in fact did occw in the last quarter,the effects of which are still being felt in the
form of newly appointed Ministers and their management teams, some of whom have
had little experience in managingtheir programs.

10.     A supervision mission in earlyNovember determinedthat execution levels had

two monthsto reach the agreed target of 85% execution. Detailed assessments ofthe
attained an overalllevel of 60% of the protected budgets as of October 2003, leaving only
spendingrates for eachprogramwere prepared, and the mission concludedwith the
Government that the end of year outcomeprobably would not surpass 77%. Under the
circumstances,this expectedresult would represent a successful adaptationto challenging
circumstances, and the mission concluded that the result was fully consistent with the
intent of the target and ajustifiable outcome. Nonetheless, a waiver is required for the
disbursementof the Second Tranche.

B.      Social Protectionand Welfare

    Schedule 3, Section 2. the Directorio Unico de Fondos (DUF) has submitted to the
    Association a report on the implementation of PLANE 11, confirming the generation
    during calendar year 2003 of a minimum of 300,000 temporary employments of a
    one-month duration,in form and substanceacceptableto the Association.


has progressed well, beginning slowly as a newly recruited Administrator of the program
11.     This condition has been met. The implementation of the second year of PLANE
W P ) installed new procedures and launched the process of community generation of
sub project proposals for municipal consideration. The number of monthly contracted
workers rose graduallyto the current plateau of 70,000 per month. As of October, the
Administrator reported that 240,000 man months of employment had been contracted.
month in advance. Bank supervision of the works, as well as by the bilateral donors to
By end November the number reached 301,398, thus meeting the annual target one
the program, has shown overall quality of the maintenance activities to be above average
and the apparent targeting to the poorest segments of the labor force successful, through
payment of the below market unskilled labor wage and the regional allocation of PLANE
I1resourcesfollowing a poverty map.

12.
November 27, 2003 from the Manager of the UNDP team administering PLANE I1 and
        Evidence received by the Bank in compliance with this condition is a letter dated
an interimprogressreport attestingto the attainment of the man month target.

    Schedule 3, Section 3. The Directorio Unico de Fondos (DUF) has presented to the
   Association (a) terms of reference for the evaluationof program impact of PLANE 11,
    setting out objectives, scope, and methodology; (b) a progress report on impact
   evaluation, describing steps taken, information obtained, and preliminary findings;




                                               5

    and (c) a signed contract for the audit of PLANE I1 financial operations, all in form
    and substanceacceptable to the Association.

13.     The sub-condition(a) has been met. Sub condition (a) was agreed as a necessary
followup to the more limited scope evaluationof PLANE I, which focused on poverty
and employment impactobjectives. The evaluation of PLANE I1is designed to include
impact as well as an institutionalevaluationfocusingon such issues as project selection
processes at the municipal level, worker recruitment and payment procedures,and the
role of the external supervisors. Thetwo terms of reference are well conceivedand
drafted. Two separatecontractorsfor the two distinct activitieswill be selected by the
PLANE I1administrator (householdsurvey and impact analysis;institutionaland
managerial evaluation).

14.
of the followingdocuments:
        The evidencereceived by the Bankin compliance with sub-condition(a) consists


        (9     "Termsof Reference for the Contractingof a Firm to Conduct a
               Household Surveyfor the Evaluation of the Impact of PLANE II" ;
        (ii)   "Termsof Reference for an External Evaluationof PLANE 11"

15.     Sub conditionr0)has not been met and a waiver is sought. The required
preliminary report fromthe evaluationcontractors was anticipatedin 2004, giventhe
time required to draft TOR,recruit contractorsto conductthe household survey and
interviewsof the entitiesinvolved in implementingthe program, and to obtain
preliminary results. TheAdministrator of PLANE I1is on track with preparation of the

with the conditionwithinthe project period. However, it will not be possible to deliver
terms of reference and plans are firmto contract for the two evaluations and to comply
the preliminary report in December, and for this reason a waiver of sub condition (b) is
sought.

16.     Sub-condition(c)has been met. The DUF with support from bilateral donors
supportingthe Program conducted a competitive selectionof an external auditor,
choosingPrice Waterhouse Coopersfor the contract. The signed contract complied with
the sub-condition. Implementationprogressedbeyond the contract stage. Price
Waterhouse Coopersthen conductedan interim financialaudit of the first 8 months of
PLANE I1operations,includingfield visitsto 70 subprojects. The audit report was
submittedto DUF, which in turn distributedthe report to a donor consultationmeeting in
earlyNovember. Thereport was unqualifiedin all respectswith the exception of a
findingthat the Ministry of Finance had not identifiedthe source (national funds,or
donor, or international financial institutionfunds) of the transferred fundsto PLANE.
This external issue is being addressed,within the limits of the Government'saccounting
system. A follow up final audit of PLANE I1will be conductedby Price Waterhouse
Coopersunder the same contract.

17.
of the followingdocuments:
        The evidencereceived by the Bankin compliancewith sub-condition (c) consists



                                              6

    (i)     DUF, "Contractfor Auditing Servicesof Financial Performanceof PLANE
            between January 1and August 31,2003" signed by the President of DUF and
            the Price Waterhouse Coopers auditor.
    (ii)    Price Waterhouse Coopers, "PLANE 11.Audit Report for the Eight Month
            Period between January 1 and August 31,2003", 5 November 2003.


    Schedule 3, Section 4. FPS has presented to the Association a study on options for
    increased financing of labor-intensive projects, in form and substance acceptable to
    the Association.

18.     This condition has been met. TheNational Social and EconomicFund (FPS) is
responsiblefor channeling long term investmentresourcesto municipalities, and serves
as the subproject mechanismfor severaldonor investmentprograms implemented at the
municipal level. Its role is distinct from the short term crisisresponse activities
supportedby PLANE 11,which like FPS is housed withinthe DUF. FPS agreedto
examineits operationsfor opportunitiesto supportthe employmentobjectivesof the
Governmentduring the crisis, while preserving its long term investment functionality.
The report on options for financing of labor-intensiveprojects recently submittedas
evidence of compliance is the result of those deliberations. The report proposes two
adaptationsfor labor intensive programs in FPS, the first a temporary substitutionof
labor intensive methods for machine based construction activities. The second is the
introduction of a new program to institutionalize road maintenance, based on a micro
enterpriseprogram of road maintenance firms composed of poor rural and urban workers,
based on other suchprograms in Peru and Colombia. Implementation of these proposals
will require broad consultation and further design efforts, in particular the second
proposal. However, the report and its proposals are sufficientto comply with the
condition.

19.
consistsof the followingdocument:
        The evidencereceivedby the Bankin compliancewith the conditioninSection4


        (i)    DUF, FPS (Executive Office), "Options for the Financing of Labor
        Intensive Projects",November 2003

C. Health SectorReform

    Schedule 3, Section 5. The Borrower's Ministry in charge of health has issued a
    regulation setting forth procedures by which SUMI may reimburse transportation
    costs incurred by the rural poor in accessing secondary and tertiary health care, in
    form and substanceacceptableto the Association.


Resolution allowing municipalities to use SUMI funds to reimburse for travel costs in
20.     This condition has been met. The Ministry of Health has approved a Ministerial

case of emergencies. Returning trips can also be reimbursed. Emergencies are broadly



                                              7

defined, including any circumstances in which it can be considered that life is at stake,
including normal deliveries in locations where these services are not available at local
health centers. Only terrestrial and fluvial transport are considered, as airplane costs are
considered to be too high. The decision to reimburse these costs is left to municipalities
as they administer SUMI funds, and as knowledge of service capacity in health networks
is much greater at local levels. Municipalities are also in charge of approvingthe travel
reimbursement fees and of the administrative procedures. The reimbursement of travel
costs has not only been approved but is already working, thus exceeding the formal
condition. A monitoring of SUMI reimbursements for 5 months shows that 61
municipalities(of a total of 314)have effectivelyreimbursed travel costs.

21.     The evidence received by the Bank in compliancewith the condition in Section 5
consists of the followingdocuments:
    (i)     Ministry of Health and Social Security,"MinisterialResolution No. 0244'', 12
            May 2003, establishing the payment of emergency transportation costs to
            public health facilities;
    (ii)    Ministry of Health and Social Security,"MinisterialResolution No. 0351",27
            June 2003, declaring the above program of transportation cost payments in
           force as of July 1.

D. EducationSectorReform

    Schedule3, Section6. The Borrower has presented to the Association evidence, inthe
    form of a copy of a transmittal letter signed by the Borrower's Minister in charge of
    education, that the draft of the strategic sector plan for education, referred to in
    paragraph 10 of Schedule2 of this Agreement, has been presented to the Borrower's
    National Congress of Education for its consideration and in form and substance
    acceptableto the Association.

22.     This condition has not been met and a waiver is sought. The Government has
produced a draft of the strategic sector plan for education, which has been consulted in
departmentalforums.As a result ofthis process, a revised strategicplan for educationhas
been produced by the Ministry of Education and has been submitted to the Bank. A
study on primary school dropouts, which was intended to inform the strategy (not an
explicit condition), has been completed, and its results are incorporated in the draft
StrategicPlan. However, the October events, among others, led to the National Congress
of Education being delayed. The Congress is now being prepared for March, and a draft
Supreme Decree calling for the Congress has been prepared. The new version of the
Strategic Plan for Education will be sent to the participants to the National Congress of
Education in mid-December. Even if the condition as initially proposed has not been met,
the Government, in the middle of a very difficult social crisis, has produced a draft
strategic plan, has made extensive consultations of the plan and is taking action to
prepare for the National Congress of Education in March, at which the Strategic Plan
will be presented, all within the project period, but not timed to comply with an
accelerated secondtranche release.



                                              8

