                                                                 97304 September 15, 2010
Russia: Confronting the Dual Epidemics of Tuberculosis and AIDS




 HEALTH

 Russia: Confronting the Dual Epidemics of
 Tuberculosis and AIDS




Overview
Supported by International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) funding in
partnership with other international agencies, the Russian government implemented a
comprehensive nationwide strategy to strengthen health care organization and service delivery
for the diagnosis, care and treatment of tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/AIDS among civilians and
prisoners residing in most of Russia’s 83 regions (from the Baltic Sea to the Pacific Ocean).
This strategy contributed to a trend of stabilizing and decreasing annual notification of new TB
cases, reduced TB-related mortality by 25 % during 2003–2009, and scaled up diagnosis and
treatment for HIV-infected people.


 MULTIMEDIA

  Stopping Epidemics, Saving Lives in Russia


Challenge
Poverty, poor nutrition, low levels of immunity, and
                                                                   More Results
underfunding of health services contributed to Russia having
one of the highest rates of TB in the world. This situation

                                                                   65%
was aggravated by the spread of multiple-drug resistant TB
and HIV/AIDS. Russia is one of the 18 high-priority countries
for TB control in the Europe and Central Asia region, as
defined by the World Health Organization (WHO). The                The percent of HIV-infected
                                                                   persons who received anti-
country also has a growing HIV/AIDS epidemic. Approach:            retroviral treatment in 2008.
IBRD provided assistance under the project to improve
access to quality services, including development of
guidelines for prevention and treatment of patients;

                                                                    $111.4
strengthened laboratory capacity; provision of drugs; training
of personnel; and improved surveillance systems, including
recording and reporting system and cohort analysis on


                                                                    million
treatment results.


Approach
                                                                   The total project amount
IBRD provided assistance under the project to improve              through an IBRD loan. Stand-
                                                                   alone research and advisory
access to quality services, including development of               services were an additional
guidelines for prevention and treatment of patients;               component of the assistance
                                                                   offered by IBRD, providing an
strengthened laboratory capacityto improve early detection         evidence-based foundation for
and diagnosis; provided drugs for treatment; supported             policy and programmatic
                                                                   decisions.
training of personnel; and improved surveillance systems,
including recording and reporting system and cohort analysis
on treatment results.ngthening of health systems and
management capacity.                                              MORE INFORMATION

                                                                   Russia TB and AIDS Control
                                                                   Project, 2003-2008
Results
                                                                   A Turning Point in the Fight
                                                                   Against Tuberculosis in Russia
      Since 2003, improved efforts by the Russian
      government at the federal and regional levels                Meeting Health Challenges in
      supported by the World Bank project contributed to a         the Russian Federation
      trend of stabilization and decreasing annual TB              TB/AIDS Control Project in the
      notifications. The notification of new TB cases was          Russian Federation
      82.6 per 100,000 population in 2009, down from 90.7
      per 100,000 at the beginning of the decade. In 2009,
      the estimated prevalence rate of TB was 185.1 per
      100,000, significantly down from 218 per 100,000 in 2004.

      Project helped to stabilize the spread of the TB epidemic in both the civilian and
      penitentiary sectors.

      Between 2003 and 2008, case detection among persons presenting TB symptoms using
      sputum smear microscopy increased by more than 24%, reaching at 73% level in 2008.
      By 2008, 75% of new TB patients received the standardized treatment regimen, up from
      44% in 2004.

      TB mortality in the general population decreased from by 25% over 2003-2009. In
      prisons, TB deaths dropped by 35% over this period.

      New guidelines for HIV/AIDS prevention, diagnosis and treatment were developed by
      the Ministry of Health and Social Development from 2005 to 2007.

      About 65% of HIV-infected persons received anti-retroviral treatment in 2008, a dramatic
      increase from 25% in 2006.

Voices


     At the beginning, we had some troubles, mostly because the
   role of high-tech methods for fighting TB in the project had been
   underestimated. However, gradually we overcame all difficulties,
   and the work went on very friendly terms. In our computer-
   intensive time, everybody knows what hardware and software
   means. I would say that the hardware part—meaning purchase
   of different equipment for the anti-TB institutions in Russia—
   played a key role in the project. However, the software part was
   even more important. The software part included learning and
   educational programs carried out in cooperation with the World
   Bank, and programs aimed at improving TB prevention and the
   organization of TB treatment. Thanks to cooperation with the
   World Bank, we have managed to improve the level of TB
   awareness and treatment.


               — Mikhail I. Perelman, Chief TB Specialist of Russia,
        Director of the Institute of Phthisiology and Pulmonology of
                                       the Moscow Medical Academy
Partners

In Russia, a strong partnership was developed with the Federal Ministry of Health and Social
Development, the Federal Corrections Department of the Ministry of Justice, Federal TB
Institutes, Federal HIV/AIDS Center, Regional Governments, and the Russian Health Care
Foundation. International partners included WHO’s Stop TB Team in Russia, Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria,
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID), and the Clinton Foundation.

Toward the Future

The Russian government is committed to sustaining the achieved gains. Support for the
implementation of TB HIV/AIDS control activities is continuing with financing from federal and
regional budgets. Under the TB program, the timely availability of first-line drugs and
compliance with WHO-recommended standard treatment regimens are critical to prevent the
spread of multiple-drug resistance cases. Under the HIV/AIDS program, additional efforts are
needed to support prevention activities among vulnerable groups, particularly among injecting
drug users
