Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21792
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41450)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 7, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lat
Lat I = US$ 1.600
US$ = 0.625 Lat
LATVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
CIS       -    Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD    -   European Bank of Reconstruction
and Development
EU        -    European Union
FSU       -   Former Soviet Union
HDM       -    Highway Development and Management
Model
ICB       -    Intemational Competitive Bidding
IRI       -   International Roughness Index
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
LRA       -   Latvian Road Administration
LRD       -   Latvian Road Department
LRSD      -    Latvian Road Safety Directorate
MOT       -   Ministry of Transport
MU        -   District State Road Management Unit
NCB       -   National Competitive Bidding
NPV       -   Net Present Value
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PMS       -    Pavement Management System
RMD       -   Road Maintenance Division
RRA       -   Regional Road Administration
Vice President:   Johanes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Michael F. Carter, ECCO9
Sector Director:   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:   Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:   Cesar A. Queiroz, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                              20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   28
Map IBRD Number 28187R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008532                                        Project Nane: HIGHWAY
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                | TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAY                                        L/C/TF Nimber: SCL-41450
CountrylDepartment: LATVIA                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/30/95                                 Effective: 08/02/97           07/10/97
Appraisal:  12/07/96                                  MTR: 06/30/97              02/08/99
Approval:  03/27/97                                 Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/LATVIAN ROAD ADMINISTRATION
Other Partners: European Union (EU Phare)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Cotntry Manager:     Michael Carter                             Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar                                 Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Cesar Queiroz                             Anders Bonde
ICR Primary Author:   Robert Nooter
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Pelfornmance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the project were to preserve the Latvian road network and to minimize total road
transport costs in Latvia. The specific objectives were to:
(a) Expand the level of periodic maintenance where it is economically justified;



(b)  Improve the efficiency and quality of the road maintenance by introducing improved technology and
quality control and by increasing LRA's cost consciousness and economic justification capabilities;
(c)  Support the development of the private road construction and engineering industries;
(d)  Improve road safety conditions in Latvia; and
(e)  Establish the mechanism and level of funding required to achieve the minimum total road transport
cost.
These objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategy for Latvia in its transition from a centrally
planned to a market economy, which included measures to stimulate and support private sector
development. This project was important for improving the condition of the country's transport
infrastructure, which in turn was an essential part of the environment necessary for private sector
development. The project also facilitated the objective of deepening structural reforms by encouraging the
transition from force account operations in the road sector to the use of contracting, and the development of
an efficient privately owned and operated road construction industry.
The objectives were clearly stated, and were realistic in terms of the country's capabilities. The Latvia
Road Administration (LRA) had capable engineers, but they were out of touch with the latest technological
developments in their industry because of the isolation from the West during the Soviet period. LRA's
management wanted to make a transition to methods consistent with a market economy, and the project was
able to provide the means to support the transition process. Thus, the project objectives reflected the
strategies of both the country and the World Bank. This coincidence of interests reduced project risks
because of the deep sense of ownership that the road administration had in the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The Highway Project included a four year program of activities consisting of the following components, all
of which were to be implemented by the LRA.
(a)  Periodic Highway Maintenance (US$27.0 million) - Repaving and rehabilitation of approximately
230 km of overlays and 750 km of surface dressings for the Main and First Class road network.
(b) Bridge Repair and Reconstruction (US$12.3 million) - Repair and reconstruction of bridges in
critical condition on the Main and First Class road network.
- 2 -



(c) Road Safety Improvement (US$6.0 million) - Design and implementation of remedial measures to
improve major accident black spots identified during the preparation of the project (US$2.5 million), and
improvement of road safety in the Bauska and Iecava Regions (US$3.5 million).
(d) Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost Bitumenization Techniques (US$0.7 million) -
Technical services to introduce cost-efficient maintenance of gravel roads including low cost
bitumenization and to perform economic evaluation of these techniques (US$0.2 million), and
implementation of pilot projects to complement the technical services (US$0.5 million).
(e)  Equipment for the Laboratory (US$0.5 million) - Laboratory equipment needed to perform
European Union-standard testing for road maintenance and construction.
(f) Institutional Strengthening and Training (US$0.7 million) - Services to (i) review the detailed
design, quality control and supervision of the project (US$0.3 million for highways and US$0.1 million for
bridges); (ii) improve design procedures and prepare a research program to adopt EU standards (US$0.1
million); (iii) strengthen the local road construction industry through the provision of training for private
road construction and engineering companies (US$0.1 million); and (iv) improve LRA's and the Latvia
Road Safety Directorate's (LRSD) capabilities to identify accident black spots and to design remedial
treatments (US$0.1 million).
In addition to the above costs, physical contingencies of ten percent and price contingencies calculated on
the basis of estimated worldwide inflation for the foreign costs and estimated domestic inflation for the
local costs over the project period totaling US$9.7 million were included. Thus the total project cost was
estimated to be US$56.9 million net of duties and taxes.
The design of the project components was realistic in terms of LRA's ability to implement them, and were
consistent with the project objectives. The first and second components were supportive of the first
objective of expanding periodic maintenance, as well as providing the means for developing the private
road construction industry. The third component was directly relevant to achieving the improvement of road
safety conditions. The fourth, fifth and sixth components were the means for achieving the improvements in
efficiency and quality of road maintenance, as well as providing for a study of the financing arrangements
for road maintenance. Thus, the components were directly linked to the achievement of the project
objectives.
The project design also reflected the lessons leamed about the road sector from prior projects, both in ECA
and throughout the world. This is demonstrated in the emphasis placed on maintenance rather than new
investment, in the provision of timely maintenance to avoid excessive future maintenance costs, in the use
of economic analysis for the selection of priorities for the use of available financing, and in the use of
contracting instead of force account for periodic maintenance operations.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained the same throughout the life of the project. Adjustments were made in the lengths
of road repaired and the number of bridges rehabilitated, depending on the rate of deterioration of the road
surfaces during the implementation period and detailed surveys made each year, as indicated below.
(a) Periodic Highway Maintenance (US$34.95 million) - The actual works were more intensive than
planned during preparation, especially in regard to the need for leveling layers on many of the road surfaces
that had been considered for surface dressings only. Specifically, 220.7 km of roads were treated with a
single surface dressing compared to a planned 750 km at appraisal. As the additional leveling is a more
- 3-



expensive procedure than a single surface treatment, only a total of 752.4 km of roads were able to be
rehabilitated compared to an estimated 980 km at appraisal. However, as the leveling made a greater
improvement in the road by reducing the roughness more than would have been the case with only a surface
dressing, this resulted in an increase in the economic rate of return (see para. 4.3 and Annex 3). Decisions
to alter the original design were taken with the use of careful economic analysis and in keeping with sound
road management practice.
(b) Bridge Repair and Reconstruction (US$10.71 million) - The exact number of bridges to be
repaired was left open at appraisal, and was to be based on detailed field investigations. A total of eight
bridges were rehabilitated or reconstructed on the Main and First Class road network, as shown on the
attached map.
(c)  Road Safety Improvement (US$7.41 million) - This component was carried out as originally
planned, including design and implementation of remedial measures to improve major accident black spots
identified during the preparation of the project, and improvement of road safety in the Bauska and lecava
Regions. The improvements in the Bauska Region, fnanced by EU-Phare, are still under implementation
and are expected to add an additional US$2.2 million to the total spent for road safety under the project.
(d) Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost Bitumenization Techniques (US$0.32 million) - This
component was also carried out as originally planned, although at a somewhat lower cost.
(e) Equipment for the Laboratory (US$0.22 million) - Laboratory equipment was purchased as
planned, but at somewhat lower cost since equipment was also received from other donors.
(f)  Institutional Strengthening and Training (US$0.79 million) - This component was also carried out
as originally planned, as described in para. 4.2 (f) below.
In summary, the overall total project costs were US$54.40 million at the time of the closing of the
IBRD loan, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$56.90 million. The work still to be completed for
the road safety improvements in the Bauskas Region, financed by the EU-Phare and the Government's
counterpart contribution, will add an additional estimated US$2.2 million to the final overall cost of the
project, for a total of US$56.20 million.
3.5 Quialitv at Entty:
There was no Quality Assurance Group assessment of this project, but the ICR finds the quality at entry to
be satisfactory. The objectives are consistent with the objectives of the Bank's strategy for Latvia and the
Government's priorities, the quality of the design is appropriate for a country that was just emerging from
the Soviet Union, the preparation took into account the Bank's safeguard policies with special relevance to
environmental considerations (wherein an environmental review was carried out during project preparation
and safeguards implemented during implementation), and the risks were appropriately assessed and
addressed. The economic analysis was done competently for improvements in roads, bridges, and road
safety covering 96 percent of total project costs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achiev ement of objectiv 'e:
All of the project objectives were achieved or exceeded, and overall the project deserves a Highly
Satisfactory rating. Specifically:
-4 -



(a) Expand the Level of Periodic Maintenance Where It Is Economically Justified. The level of
financing from Latvian sources for maintenance of the national road network was expanded from US$25.5
million in 1996, the year prior to project startup, to an estimated US$60.0 million in 2000. This substantial
increase was the result of the creation of a Road Fund for the accumulation of road user charges (see below
for a more complete explanation of the Road Fund), a portion of which is allocated to LRA's budget for
road maintenance. In the early years of the project, World Bank financing made an important addition to
the amount of rehabilitation that could be carried out, thus helping to mitigate the deterioration in the
condition of the roads. While the LRA would like to have more funds than the amounts available in recent
years, the country's financing for road improvements is at the level of 1.0 percent of Latvia's GDP, which
compares favorably with other developed and developing countries around the world. Overall, the level of
periodic maintenance has been expanded substantially, and to a generally satisfactory level compared to
other countries.
(b) Improve the Efficiency and Quality of the Road Maintenance by Introducing Improved
Technology and Quality Control and by Increasing LRA 's Cost Consciousness and Economic
Justification Capability. Improvements in the technologies and operating methods used by LRA had
already been started at LRA's own initiative, with support from an EBRD project that preceded the
Highway Project. Also, LRA had contracted for the installation of a system for evaluating the priorities for
road maintenance (the Belman system), and was in process of introducing it at the time of preparation of
this project. The project added to these changes in several important ways that are described in para. 4.2
below.
The most significant improvement in efficiency was the reduction in the unit costs for basic periodic
maintenance operations such as overlays and surface dressings. During project preparation, the Bank staff
observed that unit costs for work being performed under previous work programs was high compared to
other Baltic countries. Contracts were being let under national bidding procedures, without foreign
competition. The Bank urged the LRA to utilize ICB procedures instead of national bidding in order to
create a more competitive environment. The local contracting industry objected to the change, but the LRA
agreed with the Bank and proceeded accordingly. This led to bidding by contractors from neighboring
countries and to the formation of joint ventures between local and foreign companies (the Danish company
Colas and the Finnish company Lemminkainen both formed joint ventures with local companies), resulting
in bids that were about 30 percent lower than estimates that were based on the cost of previous contracted
works.
-5 -



Latvia Unit Costs in Lats for Road Improvements
Unit      1998       1999      2000
Pothole Patching                                      t        47,21     48,62      42,00
Crack Sealing                                         m        0,67       0,72       0,79
Bitumen Tack Coat                                     m        0,19       0,21       0,11
Asphalt Concrete Leveling Course                      t        36,08     32,65       26,9
Single Surface Dressing                               m        1,06       1,10       0,81
Grading and Compacting of Shoulders                    2       0,19       0,19      0,12
Cutting of Bushes                                     ha      513,10     528,5    382,32
Asphalt Concrete Wearing Course, 4 cm                 m2       5,31       3,39      2,73
2
Asphalt Concrete Wearing Course, 6 cm                 m        4,93       5,09       3,96
2
Hot Remix-Plus                                        m        2,91       3,59       2,78
Road Marking                                          m2       4,80       4,27      4,21
Of particular significance is the reduction in the unit costs for asphalt concrete leveling and wearing
courses and for surface dressings, since these make up most of the cost of the periodic road works included
in the project.
In addition, quality controls were reinforced by insistence on rigid inspection of completed works as a basis
for full payment of contracted work. Links were established between LRA and its Nordic counterparts in a
manner that will facilitate LRA's access to new technologies over the coming years, as is described more
fully in 4.2 (f) below.
(c)  Support the Development of the Pivate Road Construction and Engineening Industries. Prior to
the start of the project, all of the road construction companies had been privatized. Training carried out
under the project was helpful in improving the operations of these private road contractors in Latvia,
including contract bidding procedures, cost accounting, and private sector management skills. Also, the
introduction of International Competitive Bidding for the placing of periodic maintenance contracts
intensified the pressure on the local contractors to find ways to lower their costs and improve their quality
in order to be able to compete. In the final analysis, this made them better and stronger companies able to
carry out high quality work at competitive prices.
At the time of project preparation, routine maintenance was being carried out by 26 publicly owned
Regional Road Administrations, each responsible for the routine maintenance operations in one
administrative unit of the country. These units were combined into four publicly owned companies, each of
which operates on a contract basis for its respective area of the country, based on contracts issued by the
- 6 -



LRA and with payments made only for actual work performed. Some of the routine maintenance functions,
however, including road marking and some of the installations of road signs, barriers, and reflectors, are
contracted out in open tendering to private companies.
(d) Improve Road Safety Conditions in Latvia. The physical improvements in the areas identified as
accident black spots have led to a significant reduction in the number of accidents and fatalities at these
locations. The construction of underpasses on major routes, for example, made access to facilities on both
sides of the roadway more accessible, especially for children, disabled, and old people who had previously
had difficulty in crossing busy thoroughfares. While the data is based on only the past two years (and in
some cases even less), the average number of accidents involving personal injury has been reduced at these
locations from 12 accidents per year to one, and the number of fatalities from 9 to zero.
For the country as a whole, road fatalities declined from 611 in 1995 to 588 in 2000, and the total number
of accidents involving personal injury declined from 4,903 in 1995 to 4,482 in 2000. During the same
period, registered vehicles increased from 368,000 in 1995 to 701,804 at the beginning of 2000. Thus, on a
per vehicle basis, there was a significant reduction in the rate of fatalities and accidents during the project
period, with the fatalities per 10,000 vehicles falling from 16.6 in 1995 to 8.4 in 2000.
On October 21, 1997, the Road Traffic Law was passed. On the basis of this law, road traffic regulations,
regulations for equipping work areas on roads and streets, normative documents for vehicle technical
control, vehicle registration regulations, drivers' qualification regulations, regulations for road signs,
vehicle marking, emergency vehicle coloring and equipment, road marking and other state standards for
Latvia have been developed.
On October 25, 1991, a new public institution was established at the Ministry of Transport and
Communications called the Road Traffic Safety Directorate (CSDD). CSDD is a non-profit public joint
stock company dealing with vehicle registration, administering of qualification examinations for drivers and
issuing of driving licenses, securing technical inspection of vehicles, surveillance of roads for safe traffic,
and developing and maintaining a vehicle and drivers' register and data base. Reporting on traffic safety
conditions has improved, including availability of road safety data, which is now available on the Road
Traffic Safety Directorate web site at www.csdd.pv. Latvia has also adopted the 1968 Vienna Convention
standards "On Road Traffic" and "On Road Signs and Signals".
(e) Establish the Mechanism and Level of Funding Required to Achieve the Minimum Total Road
Transport Cost. The Government introduced a Road Fund during the period when the project was under
preparation, which began to accumulate funds in April 1994. The key features of the Latvian Road Fund
which stands out as an example of global best practice are as follows: (i) Revenues come from vehicle
license fees (collected by the Road Fund) and a levy added to the price of fuel. Key to its success was the
manner in which the levy was introduced. The Ministry of Finance made certain that when the levy was
proposed (as well as each time it was increased), it remained budget-neutral, i.e. if the Road Fund levy
went up by 2 cents per litre, the general tax on fuel went up by more than 2 cents. General taxes, therefore,
increased rather than being diverted to the Road Fund; (ii) The Fund has a broad-based oversight board,
which is truly independent. It has only advisory status, but appears to be quite effective. Its 13 members
include a chairman (the Minister of Transport and Communications), six representatives of the central
government, two representatives of local government and six representatives of civil society. The central
government members are ex officio, while the rest are nominated by the organizations that they represent;
(iii) The Road fund finances national, municipal and local roads (30 percent goes to the municipalities and
local roads). They operate with transparent and very well thought out formulas for dividing the finds
between the various municipalities and local entities; (iv) Finally, the Road Fund is rigorously audited.
- 7 -



There are extensive checks to ensure that the funds have been spent on approved programs and that work
has been carried out according to specifications. There have been some problems at the municipal level
(some municipalities initially spent the money on school buildings), but work is ongoing to tighten financial
controls on spending.
As Road Fund revenues increased, other sources of financing for road maintenance (principally
Government budget support) were phased out. Road Fund revenues channeled to LRA increased due to the
increases in vehicles in Latvia, plus some adjustments in the level of taxation. At present, 50 percent of the
excise duty on fuel, as well as vehicle registration fees, must be put into the Road Fund on a regular basis.
No financing is provided from the general budget for road maintenance except for a rural road
rehabilitation program, and foreign loans that are used for road maintenance are expected to be repaid from
Road Fund resources. The Road Fund finances subsidies to the railway system and bus transportation in
rural areas, and road maintenance for municipalities, in addition to the operations of LRA. At present,
about 67 percent of the Road Fund revenues now are available to LRA for the maintenance and
improvement of the national road network.
The overall result of the creation of the Road Fund was an increase in revenues available to LRA for road
rehabilitation from US$25.5 million in 1995 to an estimated US$60.0 million in 2000 (without including
foreign loans). Road Fund resources available for the national road network equaled 1. I percent of Latvia's
GDP in 1998, which compares favorably with allocations for road maintenance in developed countries.
There was an eight percent decline in income to the Road Fund in 2000 compared to 1999 due to the
apparent failure on the part of the Ministry of Finance collection agencies to collect all fuel excise taxes,
but the overall level of financing for road maintenance was still at an acceptable level. At the same time, the
use of the Belman system for planning road maintenance activities based on economic analysis assures that
the available funds are being used to the best advantage.
The introduction of the Road Fund in 1994 undoubtedly added to the resources available for road
maintenance in Latvia, in contrast to other countries that relied solely on budget allocations for this
purpose. The fact that the Road Fund also financed municipal streets and subsidies for other forms of
transportation probably helped to secure support for the Road Fund Law at inception, and to keep the Road
Fund in place. At the same time, those who oppose the use of Road Funds would argue that the
incorporation of certain road user charges into compulsory financing arrangements results in a lack of
flexibility for programming the use of public resources at the time the budget is prepared. On the whole,
however, in Latvia's case the use of a Road Fund provided resources at what appears to be a reasonable
level of financing on a secure and regular basis, and as such can be considered as a desirable development.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)  Periodic Highway Maintenance. The periodic maintenance component was carried out on schedule
and at the estimated cost. A total of 752.4 km of roads were improved at an average cost of US$46,451 per
km, including improvements in drainage, road markings and signs, and other related improvements in
addition to the basic improvement of the pavements. The project helped to improve the roughness of the
entire Main Road Network, 1610 km in length, as indicated by the average roughness of the network as
follows:
-8 -



Year               Roughness (IRI, m/km)
1997                        3.38
1998                        3.56
1999                        3.03
2000                        3.01
(b)  Bridge Repair and Reconstruction. A total of eight bridges were repaired or reconstructed (see map
attached).
(c)  Road Safety Improvement. Under the project, improvements in accident black spots identified
through data collection introduced under the project were designed with the help of highly qualified
intemational consultants, and construction is now completed. Also, local design personnel were trained in
accident black spot design techniques so that they could carry out similar designs after the experts had
departed. A total of nine accident black spots were improved.
Also, Latvia carried out a broad based road safety program involving many Government agencies. It
established a Traffic Safety Council under the Cabinet of Ministers, composed of members from the
Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Interior, the Municipality of Riga, and the
Community of Municipalities. The Council reviews and approves traffic safety programs, and sets tasks
for the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the road safety area. It has also prepared a Traffic
Safety Program for the years 2000-2006 with a target of reducing the number of fatalities from 627 (1998)
to a level of 300 by the end of the period. As part of this program, the Government has established a target
for annual road safety expenditures of at least Lat 3.0 million, which is about 10 percent of the annual road
budget. The combined impact of these activities and the improvements in accident black spots resulted in
significant improvements in road safety conditions, as described in para. 4.1 (d) above.
(d) Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost Bitumenization Techniques. International consultants
were engaged to design test sections for trying alternative techniques for the bitumenization of gravel roads.
The test sections were installed in 1998, and are now in process of evaluation. While it is too early to
assess which of the techniques offers the best choices for Latvia, the work that has been carried out has
been satisfactory.
(e) Equipment for the Laboratory. Laboratory equipment was procured for the purpose of upgrading
the capacity for conducting tests on asphalt concrete and other road construction materials. The equipment
was installed and put into operation in a satisfactory manner. The total amount of equipment financed by
the project was somewhat less than originally planned since LRA received support for this purpose from
other financing agencies.
(f) Institutional Strengthening and Training. International consultants, financed through technical
assistance programs from Sweden, Finland and Denmark, were engaged in conjunction with local
consultants to introduce modem design and quality control practices, using the project's periodic works
program as a practical example. Task teams were organized to review and update Latvia's design standards
consistent with EU standards; this work is still ongoing, but is making good progress. Training was
provided in Latvia to the local road construction industry in competitive bidding procedures and how to
carry out contracts, augmented by workshops in Estonia and France. LRA introduced international
competitive bidding, as described above, resulting in a local industry that is able to compete with foreign
-9-



firms. A pavement improvement technique called "mill and fill", whereby a milling machine is used to
remove high spots on the pavement surface and asphalt concrete is applied to fill the remaining low spots,
was introduced and tried on a test basis. The final results of quality and cost are still being evaluated, but at
a minimum Latvia now has access to this technique for future use in appropriate applications. While LRA
was already installing a Belman system for determining road maintenance priorities, it has also begun to
use the World Bank computer program HDM-4.
LRA's linkages to other road administrations in all of the Nordic countries were strengthened. Many
Latvian road engineers visited the Nordic road administrations, and Latvia was invited to participate in the
Nordic Road Council meetings. Swedish bilateral finding was obtained for establishing vehicle testing
stations and other applications that were additional to the project itself. Finland and the US Federal
Highway Authority helped to build up Latvian technical competence through the T-2 center that was
established in Latvia. Also, cooperation between the road administrations of the three Baltic countries was
encouraged. A recent example of this was the Regional Transport Seminar held on November 16-17, 2000,
which was hosted by the Latvian Ministry of Transport and Communications in Riga, to which the other
two Baltic countries were invited. The purpose of the conference, which was well attended by all three
countries, was to assess the progress made in each country in restructuring their transport sectors, and to
compare the progress made in each subsector. In summary, through its exposure through these contacts,
Latvia has leamed how to access interesting new technologies and policy options, and they are now able to
find what they need themselves.
In summary, all of the planned improvements in quality and institutional strengthening, as well as some
additional improvements, were carried out as planned and in a highly satisfactory manner.
4.3 iVet Present IValue/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Values (NPVs) and economic rates of return (ERRs) were calculated at project completion
based on actual costs and updated traffic counts, with the following results:
Project Component  V   at Appraisal NPV at Completion ERR at Appraisal    ERR at
______________    ________________    ______________     C om p letion
Periodic Highway      US$87.5 million    US$148.6 million      34.9 %           56.8 %
Maintenance 
Bridge Repairs and    US$525.0 million   US$550.7 million      227 %            289 %
Reconstruction      l
The cost of capital used for both calculations of NPV was 12 percent.
Economic rates of return and NPVs were not calculated for the Road Safety component due to the
relatively short time period for accumulating data on accidents since the improvements were made.
However, based on the preliminary data described in para. 4.1 above, the results should easily exceed the
ERR of 65.0 percent and NPV of US$10.2 million estimated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of/return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development inipact:
The institutional development impact was considerable, as described in 4.2 (f) above. LRA had already
started the process of adopting modem road maintenance techniques before the project began, but this
process was further stimulated and accelerated by the activities that were carried out as part of the
- 1 0 -



Highway Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of govenmment or implementing agencY:
There were no significant factors outside of the control of the Govermment that affected the progress of the
project. The only factor that had some negative impact, outside of the control of the implementing agency
(LRA), was the recent decline in the collection of road user charges described in para. 4.1 (e).
5.2 Factors generally siubject to government control:
The Government fulfilled all of its obligations under the project, including making counterpart funding
available through the operation of the Road Fund. Loan signing and effectiveness were achieved on or
ahead of schedule, and the project was completed within the original time frame.
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplementing agency control:
There were no factors under LRA's control that affected the project adversely.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There was one major change in the financing arrangements for the project. During preparation, there were
firm indications that the Kuwait Fund would provide US$15.0 million in co-financing for the project.
However, the Government preferred to minimize its foreign borrowing, and decided to finance the US$15.0
million from its own resources, which was facilitated by the World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan that
was available at that time. Consequently, the Government, at its own initiative, provided both the agreed
counterpart financing of US$15.4 million and the co-financing amount. US$20.4 million of this amount
came from the Structural Adjustment Loan, US$3.7 million from the Road Fund, and US$6.4 million from
the Government budget for a total of US$30.5 million. This revised financing plan did not alter the project,
which remained the same as originally planned in scope and size.
Co-financing included in the project preparation was estimated at US$5.8 million in grant financing from
EU-Phare for the renovation of two of the bridges included in the project, and for major road safety
improvements in the Bauska and lecava Regions. The EU component was delayed somewhat due to the
necessity of adapting the bidding documents and procedures to EU rules. However, the work on the two
bridges and the improvements in the Iecava Region has been completed, and the work in the Bauska Region
is now under way. Financing from the EU-Phare grant disbursed as of December 31, 2000 was US$3.58
million and is included in the project summary. The cost of the remaining work in Bauska is expected to
add an additional US$2.2 million to the cost of the project when completed (US$1.5 million from EU-Phare
and US$0.7 million counterpart financing from the Government), for a total EU-Phare contribution to the
project of US$5.08 million.
Co-financing from Sweden (US$0.3 million), Finland (US$0.3 million) and France (US$0.1 million) for
technical support for improved gravel road maintenance techniques, quality control, design standards, and
training in road safety and for private contractors was made available as planned.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale. for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project objectives is highly likely due to the Government's awareness of the importance
of road maintenance and road transport for national development. This is evident in its commitment to the
use of a dedicated Road Fund and its willingness to finance the Fund at an adequate level. Also, the
environment within the Government is conducive to good management practices, with no apparent political
- 11 -



interference with operations or corrupt practices. Furthermore, there is a high level of commitment at the
technical level to improving operations and introducing best practices. All of this bodes well for a continued
high level of performance.
In the recent past, there has been some reduction in the level of collections of fuel excise taxes even though
there has been an increase in the number of registered vehicles and an obvious increase in traffic on the
roads. LRA has called this to the attention of the tax collection agencies that have responsibility for
collections. Until this situation is improved, financing available to LRA for road maintenance will be
adversely affected, but not to such a degree that serious road deterioration would result unless the situation
worsens significantly.
Latvia is undergoing a comprehensive civil service reform that will affect all parts of the Government. In
LRA's case, this will mean that its organizational structure will change from that of a non-profit
state-owned joint stock company to an agency of the Government, reporting to the Ministry of Transport.
However, the functions for which LRA will be responsible remain the same as previously, and therefore
this change should not have any adverse effect on its operations or the sustainability of the project
objectives.
6.2 Transitioni arrangement to regular operations:
Through the assistance of project consultants and training, LRA has developed design standards based on
Westem models that are used for both international and local contracting for periodic maintenance. It has
also introduced competitive bidding procedures for periodic maintenance on a regular basis, and the
training carried out under the project has developed the contractors' ability to function on this basis.
Contractors have purchased new equipment to be able to comply with the requirements of Westem
standards. Thus the operational procedures introduced during project implementation have now been
incorporated into LRA's regular operations.
In the area of road safety, the Traffic Safety Council has been established, and a new division has been
established in LRA that is responsible for traffic safety functions. Also, financial sustainability is secured
by the existence of the Road Fund, supervised by a Road Fund Board, which consists of representatives
from Government, road users and civil society.
The establishment of these organizations and operational procedures should provide reasonable assurance
that the improvements in the road network made because of the project will be maintained in the future.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation was carried out expeditiously and in a highly professional manner, and consequently the
Bank's performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The project identification phase took into consideration
the Government's and the Bank's assistance strategies, which recognized the importance of an adequate
road network as essential for reaching the country's development goals. The project design benefited from
lessons learned about the transport sector from other World Bank projects, resulting in placing emphasis on
maintenance instead of new construction, the need to introduce new technologies and operational methods
in order to modernize road maintenance operations, and the importance of an adequate and regular source
of financing for road maintenance. The project counterpart was a single agency (LRA), which simplified
the implementation process. Preparation was carried out with only four Bank staff, which was adequate to
prepare all of the essential elements of the project while keeping the preparation cost to a minimum. The
Bank staff correctly assessed that the Government counterparts were dedicated and competent, with a
- 12-



sincere commitment to carrying out the project and sustaining it after completion, and that the Government
was prepared to support the project with adequate financing.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was also Highly Satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out on a
regular basis with competent professional staff. Reporting was timely and reflected the progress being
made. The compliance with legal covenants and the reporting of the Project Monitoring Indicators was
done regularly. The numbers of Bank staff devoted to supervision was minimal, but fully adequate to keep
track of project developments and progress. There were no deviations from Bank policies, and no revisions
to the project design were necessary.
7.3 Overall Bank performa77ce:
For the reasons outlined above, the Bank's performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower was fully involved and cooperative in the preparation process. Both the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) and the LRA had a keen interest in moving the preparation along as rapidly as possible,
and provided all necessary information and support. The borrower had prior experience with intemational
agencies through the implementation of an EBRD loan for road improvements, which greatly expedited the
process of understanding procurement and contracting procedures to be followed in the Highway Project.
The Government was already aware of the need to modemize its road maintenance operations, and many
changes were already under way, so that the Highway Project could build on this base and take another
step forward. Thus the Govermnent's role in the preparation process is also rated as Highly Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government met its commitments under the project without fail, including the timely and adequate
provision of counterpart funding. All legal commitments were complied with, and there were no deviations
from the Bank's safeguard policies. The MOT pursued the establishment of a Road Fund on its own
initiative, as it recognized that this was essential for assuring a regular flow of funds for road maintenance.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
LRA, the implementing agency, also deserves a Highly Satisfactory rating for its role as the principle
implementing agency. Implementation was facilitated by the fact that an effective Project Implementing
Unit (PIU) had been established for the preceding EBRD project, and could be used for the implementation
of the Highway Project without the usual delay needed for the establishment of a new organization. Also,
the LRA performed its tasks expeditiously and with competence, and was eager to adopt new technologies
that proved effective.
7.7 Overall Borrower pe;fornmance:
The borrower's overall performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
There were a number lessons that emerged from this project that have relevance to other projects in this
sector:
(a)  Competent Counterparts Significantly Improve the Chances for a Successful Project. This, and
its opposite (poor counterparts often lead to poor projects), is a lesson that is leamed repeatedly in World
Bank operations, but can not be repeated too often. In this case, every step of the project, from preparation
- 13-



to completion and then to sustainability, was facilitated by the extremely competent and dedicated staff at
LRA and MOT. On the contrary, the best project design would have had limited impact if this were not the
case.
(b) A Maximum Degree of Competition is Necessary to Achieve Efficiency of Contracted Works. The
preceding EBRD project was well designed and implemented, and there was a competent local construction
industry capable of doing good quality work. However, the absence of international contractors reduced the
level of competition, with the result that contracted operations were more costly than those in neighboring
countries. The introduction of Intemational Competitive Bidding intensified the competition, with
reductions in unit costs of 30 percent or more over the life of the project. The lesson to be leamed is that
procurement procedures should take into account the maximizing of competition. In road operations, this
can best be achieved when both local and foreign firms compete through the use of ICB, but with bidding
packages sufficiently subdivided so that local fimns with limited financial capacity can also participate.
(c)  Simplicity Pays Off. Experience has indicated that simpler projects tend to be more successful, and
the present project confirms this observation. The project had a single counterpart agency, the Latvian
Road Administration, under the authority of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which was
responsible for implementation of all project components. This simplified both project preparation and
supervision, and allowed the Bank staff to concentrate its efforts in a manner not possible with more
complicated projects.
(d)  Continuity of Staff is Important. There was no change in the local counterpart staff over the life of
the project. On the Bank side, there was one change of Team Leader, but with good transition and
continuity as both Team Leaders remained in the same department (ECSIN). This allowed the participants
in the project activities to have a continuous dialogue, and to develop trust and understanding of each
other's viewpoints by working together over an extended period of time.
(e)  "Second Generation" Type Road Funds Work In Latvia, a "second generation" Road Fund
demonstrated that this type of fund could win the recognition and support of the public at large while
putting road managememt on a sound commercial footing. As such, it can also play an important role in
meeting European integration requirements. Essential conditions for success were its transparency, an
oversight board that is broad-based, independent and includes nongovemment members, beneficiaries of the
fund that include local and municipal govenmments, and road user charges that are designed not to reduce
general revenues.
(f) Involvement of Highly Developed Countries in Bank-financed Projects Speeds International
Integration. When highly developed countries (in this case, Sweden, Finland, France and the EU) are key
foreign stakeholders in economic growth of a country, the availability of grants for technical assistance to
support important refonn programs helps to re-integrate the economy into the intemational community and
results in unusual speed in changing the traditional patterns of doing business.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
Comments of the Latvia Road Administration
Historical Background
After gaining independence Latvia started a transition period towards the market economy. The road sector
budget decreased drastically in year 1992 and only emergency road repairs could be carried out resulting in a
growing backlog of periodic road maintenance. An important step towards improving of road financing was the
establishment of the Road Fund in 1994. The road construction industry was partly privatized. Latvia had no
experience in public procurement and the relevant legislation had to be developed. The standards for geometric
and pavement design were still based on the former Soviet Union design manual. Axle loads often exceeded the
designed capacity of roads. The first Road Project in Latvia was being implemented from 1994 to 1996. The
Project was financed by EBRD and JEXIM and included road periodic maintenance (120 km of overlays), the
equipment for efficient winter maintenance and procurement of testing equipment according to Western
standards. The institutional strengthening component included Asphalt Technology Study, Road User Charges
Study, and Road Management Reorganization Sturdy. The EU-PHARE program was expected to finance part
of the improvements of the Via Baltica road.
Project Objectives
The overall objective of the Latvia Highway Project was to minimize total road transport costs in Latvia. The
following specific objectives were outlined to compliment the overall objective:
(a) Expand The Level of Periodic Maintenance Where It Is Economically Justfied
It was agreed in the Loan agreement, that each year the Borrower shall submit to the Bank an economically
justified work program.
Repaving Work
LRA uses the Danish Belman pavement management system. The sections are prioritized comparing the effect
and cost of the selected solutions. After the implementation of the Project economic intemal rates of return and
net present values were recalculated with the help of HDM3 model taking into account actual contract prices
and vehicle operating costs. In most cases the actual benefit was higher than planned. IRRs in all cases
exceeded 20% thus confirming the high cost effectiveness of the Project. In general, the current financing level
is insufficient to cover periodic maintenance needs for all the state road network. In order to avoid
concentration of all works only on the busy roads around Riga, and leaving some regions without any periodic
maintenance, minimum financing quotas have been set for each region. LRA prepares an annual work
program taking into account regional needs in addition to the cost benefit analysis.
Bridge Maintenance
The priority list of bridges was prepared by a consultant from SweRoad. The sequence of repairs was based on
the actual technical condition of the bridges. Eight bridges were repaired under the Project. Other bridges from
the list were repaired or will be repaired using local funds. The planned rates of return for bridges were
- 15 -



calculated as extremely high and remained such after recalculation at the end of the Project. In order to
minimize road users' costs in all the cases temporary bridges or one free line for traffic was provided during
reconstruction. Only on Gauja Bridge the heavy traffic was diverted to an altemative route.
Traffic Safety
At the beginning of the project LRA did not have a methodology for black spot analysis. Traffic safety experts
from SweRoad prepared a manual for evaluation of various measures for the elimination of black spots. Black
spot improvement works were started in 1998. The actual effect from black spot improvements can not be
properly valuated yet because the period after reconstruction is too short. However, the fact that during the
period after reconstruction heavy accidents have not been registered in the treated black spots make us believe
that measures taken have been effective.
(b) Improve the Efficiency and Quality of the Road Maintenance by Introducing Improved Technology
and Quality Control and by Increasing LRA 's Cost Consciousness and Economic Justification
Capabilities
Design standards and specifications of the former Soviet Union were still in force in Latvia, but LRA had
started the process of adapting design, specifications, construction technology and testing of road standards
used in the European Union. In order to improve the efficiency and quality of the road maintenance the Project
includes several studies oriented to introducing of Western design standards and improving of contract
management and supervision.
The Technical assistance was given by DHW Consultants to LRA and Technical Conmmittee for
Standardization to review and adapt suitable EU standards regarding road geometric design, pavement
structural design and related specifications and testing methods. Close cooperation was established between
Latvian and European institutions of standardization. For the period until European norms will be developed
Swedish asphalt norms "Road 94" were accepted for use in Latvia. Since 2001, LRA has developed new
standard specifications for state roads. The new asphalt specifications are completely based on Western
standards.
LRA, in cooperation with local design companies and the State asphalt laboratory, developed repaving works
specifications for the Highway project. The bidding documents were prepared according to the World Bank
Guidelines by PIU. The works were contracted out to private enterprises on a contract basis through
competitive bidding. The contracts described new requirements to the quality to be met and the penalties faced.
The innovations in the contracts required improvements in contract management and supervision. The
consultants from  Finnish National Road Administration were assigned for contract management and
supervision study. The consultant observed local contract management practice and made recommendations for
organization and reporting obligations for contract management as well as substantial assistance was given to
practical site supervision. The supervision of works was performed by supervisors on a contract basis or for
smaller sections by LRA's regular staff. New model templates, such as site diary, quantity measurement form,
payment certificates, etc., were introduced in practice not only for World Bank project, but for all periodic
maintenance and reconstruction including EU and locally financed contracts. Improvements in contract
management and supervision made possible more accurate evaluation of quality. The quality requirements and
improved supervision made contractors concentrate more on quality and consider investments in new
technologies.
Latvia has 60,000 km of gravel roads of which 12,000 are state roads. For gravel roads LRA does not have a
pavement management system. The Project included two components towards improving LRA's ability of
- 16 -



economic justification of gravel road maintenance projects. With the technical assistance from SweRoad,
Scandinavian gravel road maintenance technologies for preventing of dusting were tested. In order to compare
performance of local materials a pilot section was treated with three types of stone materials. We got
information about approximate costs of the tested technologies. LRA provided the follow-up and maintenance
of the pilot sections in order to evaluate the complete cost and durability of the tested technologies. The pilot
project for introducing of the economic evaluation model HDM4 was started in one region with 300 km of
gravel roads. There is software in the LRA and a trained project team capable to continue implementation of
the HDM4 model in the entire country. Currently due to lack of financing for gravel roads, the Government has
not ordered further implementation of the project.
(c) Support the Development of the Private Road Construction and Engineering Industries
The Latvia Highway Project introduced intemational bidding in the road construction market of Latvia. French
consultant Ponts Formation Edition conducted a series of seminars in order to improve capability of local
contractors to compete and to perform the contracts according to intemational contracting practice. Five
seminars for directors and technical managers were held in Latvia, also one workshop in Estonia and Lithuania
as well as a study tour to France. The main topics of seminars were financial management, quality
management and the latest construction technology. The Highway Project also increased the periodic
maintenance market in Latvia. This increase improved the economic situation of the local construction
industry. The contractors invested in new technologies thus improving the quality of works.
(d) Improve Road Safety Conditions in Latvia
Latvian statistics on road accidents are among the worst in Europe. The Latvia Highway Project included
several measures to improve the traffic safety situation on the state roads. SweRoad consultants assisted to
prepare Road Safety Program of the Project. In order to develop local expertise in accident black spot analysis
Swedish traffic safety experts were working in close cooperation with the newly established traffic
organization division in LRA. Eight accident black spots were improved in the World Bank Project and Phare
financed traffic organization improvements in lecava and Bauska towns on Via-Baltica.
(e) Establish the Mechanism and Level of Funding Required to Achieve the Minimum Total Road
Transport Cost
Since 1994, Latvia has established a state road fund. The revenues of the State Road Fund consists of the
annual vehicles tax and 50% of the excise duty on fuel. Although the State Road Fund can not cover the actual
needs of the entire road network, it was continuously growing and the legal base of the Fund has been
developed. An important contribution to the State Road Fund was given by the amendments to the law "On
Excise Duty" adopted by the Parliament on May 16, 1996. They clearly determined the state policy towards
the increase of excise duty in order to draw nearer the tax rates to those minimum rates determined by the
European Union. Unfortunately, currently, the Road Fund does not ensure the level of funding required to
achieve the minimum total road transport cost. In year 1999 and 2000 the collection from fuel excise tax was
below the expectations and currently the Road fund ensures only 1/3 of optimal financing needs. At the same
time, the Road Fund has become an example of how to involve all stakeholders in planing process of road
transport funding. Road Fund Advisory Board includes representatives of state, municipalities, road builders
and road users. Regular information about Road Fund budget and planned road maintenance activities has
increased public awareness that road infrastructure is a service to be paid for. Road users start taking care of
where their money goes and how it comes back to the road.
- 17-



Project Expenditures
Components                   Total Project      Funding from
(USS million)                    Costs           World Bank
1. Works
(a) Highway Maintenance                      34,95               14,42
(b) Bridge Rehabilitation                     10,71              3,05
(c) Road Safety Improvements                  7,41               2,00
(d) Gravel Road Works                         0,32               0,24
2. Equipment and Materials                      0,22               0,20
3. Consulting and Training                      0,79               0,09
Total Cost                                     54,40              20,00
Borrower's Performance
Preparation
The borrower established a project team with the necessary competence and capacity for project preparation.
At the time of preparation of the project. The EBRD project was already coming to the end of implementation.
The Borrower had good experience in road projects financed by IFI. MoT and LRA had clear views on actual
transport infrastructure needs. The proposals of project components were economically justified and
corresponded to the actual situation. The borrower provided the necessary information for project preparation
on time. The relevant feasibility studies were prepared and stake-holding institutions involved in project
preparatory stage.
Implementation
It was agreed to keep PIU from the previous project. PIU had good experience of EBRD procurement and
financing procedures. There were no difficulties to learn World Bank procedures and ensure adequate
implementation. The loan covenants were followed and proper reporting ensured. A wide range of local experts
were involved in implementation of the project. Close cooperation between the consultants and local experts
made it easier to adapt project innovations and ensured sustainability. Innovations in contract management and
supervision have become a usual practice in all LRA's works contracts. The Government ensured counterpart
financing during the whole project cycle. All payments of interest were made timely and in full amnount.
Annual audit of project expenditures confirmed that funds had been spent according to the provisions of the
Loan agreement. The most difficult cases during project implementation were:
(a) Termination of two asphalt works contracts that had not been completed until the end of the season;
(b) Two contracts were awarded without having Banks no objection and were financed from another source;
(c) Contractors clairn on the decision of evaluation cormmittee.
In all cases, the Bank agreed that the borrower has respected the Bank's procedures.
Bank's Performance
Project was prepared in the best way satisfying the borrowers needs. Often, IFIs are interested in the projects
with big scale contracts, in this case the economic benefit was the priority. The Bank's experts bring to the
project a lot of experience from similar projects in neighboring countries. The World Bank experience of
- 18 -



various projects around the world is the most valuable benefit for the borrower. It is worth mentioning that
during all of the project cycle we enjoyed working with very competent and communicable Bank staff.
Normally, in similar projects, a problem appears that standard requirements of the IFI may not well fit in the
situation of the beneficiary country. In such situations, good communications, clear position and flexibility has
great value. In our project, the Bank's project team always respected borrower's arguments and had clear, well
justified position. The Bank's lending operations were performed in accordance with the loan agreement.
Exchange of information fully satisfied the borrower's needs.
Lessons Learned
The project team is one of the key issues for successful implementation of the project. Only competent
consultant in combination with adequate local counterpart staff can ensure a sustainable benefit. If one of the
components does not perform well we always get lower final output. More attention to the counterpart team for
various project components shall be drawn in stage of project preparation. It is almost impossible during
relatively short project cycle to identify and correct shortcomings. Good communications between the Bank
and the borrower facilitate solving of problems in the earliest stage. During the implementation of the project,
problems appear when parties shall come to a mutually acceptable compromise in a short time. The Bank's
project team facilitated good communications and demonstrated clarity of position.
In road projects, timing is important because of the seasonal character of the works. We caused quality
problems and extremely hard contract management issues, which could be avoided if bidding would have
started earlier. Already in project preparation stage shall be set threshold dates for key actions, when schedule
shall be reconsidered.
(b) Cofinianciers:
EU-Phare, the only co-financier for the project, made the following comments:
March 26, 2001
Under the Phare Programme, the European Commission has co-financed four subprojects from the
"Highway" project:
o   the reconstruction of Memele Bridge
-   the reconstruction of Gauja Bridge
*   lecava road improvements
*   Bauska road improvements.
The technical design of these projects has generally been carried out by local companies with the assistance
of international consultants. The necessity to adapt the documents of the Tender Dossiers to the European
Commission's rules has caused some delays but the subprojects were nevertheless completed in time with
the exception of the Bauska one. In the case of Bauska's subproject, the works' beginning has been
postponed due among others to the European Commission's request that more than one bid be received in
the framework of the tendering procedure. This subproject is still ongoing.
The Ministry of Transport has undeniably profited from the cooperation with the European Commission
when launching intemational tenders and the collaboration with foreign consultants for the preparation of
the sub projects has also benefited to LRA and the local designers .There is no doubt about the
sustainability of these effects. Still, the important staff turn-over existing within the Latvian Civil Service
in general may pose a threat in the long run. In the future, the European Commission's support to Latvian
- 19 -



road sector will mainly be channeled through ISPA Progamme. The amounts of ISPA projects are expected
to be much higher than those of Phare projects. Nevertheless, the ISPA financing instrument retains a lot of
common features with Phare Progamme. In a way, the four co-financed sub projects were a good
preparation for ISPA.
Best regards,
Luc Faber
Task Manager
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
EU Accession. European integration is clearly a priority for the highway sector of Latvia as well as for the
rest of the economy. Major achievements have already been made in this direction, particularly with regard
to the introduction of modem design standards in conformity with European practice. Progress has also
been made in the field of legislation for the transport sector, which now approximates European legislation.
The adoption of the EC standards, particularly increased axle-load standards for roadways, poses a major
financial challenge as it requires the strengthening of the whole road network. In this regard and also to
accelerate the inter-connections with the European regions, as well as to assure a smooth flow of road
transit, considerable funding - ISPA grants combined with IFI lending - is going into the development of the
key Pan-European corridors. At the same time, there is an urgent need to improve the conditions of rural
roads, which would enable small to medium sized settlements to have physical and economic integration
with the faster growing urban areas. On the other hand, urban infrastructure (urban roads) cannot benefit
from increased European financial support, and the burden for these stays with the municipalities, which
have not been adequatly empowered to deal with the growing demand.
Improved traffic safety is also on the accession agenda. The early results (e.g. the establishment of the
Road Traffic Safety Directorate) are very promising indeed. As on average the cost of road accidents to the
society is around 2 percent of GDP, efforts should not be relaxed to improve traffic safety. Further joint
actions of the transport, health and education sectors are also called for. The good results of the previous
Baltic cooperation could be a basis for a closer regional approach to road safety.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
tndlcatoriftWx                      Proned in last PSR                     AcluaLeast Esffimte
1. Percentage of funds allocated for main           90 %                                 85 %
and regional roads new construction or
periodic maintenance utilizing cost-benefit
analysis.
2. Ratio of IRI Desired/IRI Achieved for road         0.9                                  0.9
sections included in the project.
3. Index of fatalities for 10,000 km.                80 %                                 51 %
1995=100
4. Reduction in number of fatalities per year         9                                     9
on treated accident black spots.
5. Reduction in number of accidents with              12                                   12
injured per year on treated accident black
spots.
*The use of cost-benefit analysis for allocating road maintenance funds is reduced somewhat by the Government's
desire to increase the financing for regional and rural roads that have relatively low traffic volumes and therefore
do not compare favorably with the roads with higher traffic volumes in the absence of a revised ranking system that
takes social indicators into account.
Output Indicators:
|Indkatortlatrx                     Projected In last PSR                  Acti/lLatest Esdmate
1. Ratio of budget allocation for periodic           0.6                                   0.6
maintenance/optimal budget for peniodic
maintenance.
2. Cost per square meter of a 4 cm overlay        US$6.5/sq m                          US$5.40/sq m
3. Percentage of contracts meeting quality           90 %                                  90 %
specifications.
4. Percentage of periodic maintenance and           100 %                                 100 %
new construction performed by private
contractors.
5. Percentage of contracts included in the            60 %                                  95 %
project awarded to Latvian companies or
joint-ventures.
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comrponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actualatest   Percentage of
Prjc Cost Rt0 y tCmpqy40nt0 XS r :$f  0   t3Soi* t   US$ million     ; 
1. Periodic Highway Maintenance                    27.00           34.95          129.5
2. Bridge Repairs and Reconstruction                12.30          10.71           87.1
3. Road Safety Improvement                           6.00           7.41          123.5
4. Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost              0.70           0.32           45.7
Bitumenization Techniques
5. Equipment for Laboratory                          0.50           0.22           43.6
6. Institutional Strengthening and Training          0.70           0.79          112.1
Total Baseline Cost                                 47.20          54.40
Physical Contingencies                              4.70           0.00
Price Contingencies                                 5.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            56.90           54.40
Total Financing Required             56.90          54.40
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A praisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
PencItU _ Ct9OfY           ica            .l?Xf;tt                  N. N  S.FM.0::     Total Cos
1. Works                      19.10          4.80          0.00         31.20       55.10
(15.00)        (4.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (19.00)
2. Goods                      0.00           0.00          0.90         0.00         0.90
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.80)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00          0.20         0.70         0.90
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
_____.___(0.00)________    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)                     (0.00)
Total                      19.10           4.80         1.10         31.90        56.90
(15.00)        (4.00)       (1.00)        (0.00)      (20.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ependiur Catego Y                                       2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB     ~Other                   ____
1. Works                    22.63         3.29         0.00         27.49        53.41
(17.21)      (2.50)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (19.71)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.20          0.00        0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
- 22 -



3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.09           0.70           0.79
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)        (0.09)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        22.63            3.29          0.29           28.19         54.40
(17.21)         (2.50)         (0.29)         (0.00)       (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (Appraisal Contingencies have been added to Appraisal
Estimates) (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Compont (Appaisl            Appraisal Estimate            ActualLatest Estimate
Contingencies have been
added to Appraisal
Estimates) 
Bank   ____          CO.       Baink      Govt.     CoF. ,Bnk   Govt.  CoF.
Highway Maintenance       12.87     9.02      10.76      14.42      20.53     0.00    112.0  227.6   0.0
Bridge Maintenance        3.28      4.40       7.17      3.05       4.98      2.68     93.0  113.2  37.4
Road Safety Improvements    2.54     1.83      2.86      2.00       4.51      0.90     78.7  246.4  31.5
Gravel Road Works         0.50      0.12       0.00      0.24       0.08      0.00     48.0   66.7   0.0
Equipment & Materials     0.61      0.00       0.24      0.20       0.02      0.00     32.8    0.0    0.0
Consultancies & Training  0.20      0.00       0.50      0.09       0.00      0.70     45.0   0.0   140.0
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Periodic Highway Maintenance
At appraisal, NPV based on a cost of capital of 12 percent was estimated to be US$85.5 million and the
economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 34.9 percent. The calculations were based on the use of
the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-3), with data from road surveys for roughness and
visual inspection for surface conditions of the pavement, traffic counts for each road section, the cost of
vehicle maintenance and operation in Latvia, depreciation of vehicles, and alternative maintenance
strategies.
The NPV and economic rate of return were calculated at project completion, also using the HDM-3
computer model. The calculations were based on the actual cost of construction, actual roughness of the
pavements after rehabilitation, and updated traffic counts and vehicle operating costs. On this basis, the
NPV was calculated at US$148.6 million and the ERR was 56.8 percent. The improvement in the results
compared to the appraisal estimate is attributed to the reduction in construction unit costs, greater than
anticipated traffic levels, and the substantial increase in the cost of fuel (which increases the vehicle
operating costs and hence the benefits from improved roads).
Bridge Repairs
At project completion, the ERR and NPV for the bridge component were calculated using the same
methodology as at appraisal, which compared the savings that could be achieved by avoiding the diversion
of traffic when the bridge was no longer usable to the cost of the repairs. Actual cost of the repairs or
reconstruction and updated traffic counts were used for this calculation at completion. A cost of capital of
12 percent was used for calculating the NPV at both appraisal and completion. The average ERR at
completion was 289 percent compared to an estimated 227 percent, and the total NPV was US$550.7
million compared to an estimated NPV of US$525.0 million at appraisal.
Road Safety Improvements
Economic rates of return and NPVs were not calculated for the Road Safety component due to the
relatively short time period for accumulating data on accidents since the improvements were made.
However, based on the preliminary data described in para. 4.1 (d) above, the results should easily exceed
the estimated ERR of 65.0 percent and NPV of US$10.2 million.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
December 1995              4   3 Engineers, I Economist
June 1996                  3   2 Engineers, I Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1996              4   3 Engineers, I Economist
Supervision
May 1997                    3   2 Engineers, I Economist           S               S
September 1997              2   2 Engineers                        S              S
February 1998               1   1 Engineer                         S              S
June 1998                   1   1 Engineer                         S              S
September 1998              1   1 Engineer                         S               S
February 1999               3   3 Engineers                        S              S
June 1999                   3   1 Sector Leader, I Engineer, I     S               S
Procurement Specialist
November 1999               2   2 Engineers                        S               S
March 2000                  2   1 Section Leader, I Engineer       S              S
August 2000                 2   1 Engineer, I Procurement          S              S
Specialist
ICR
November 2000              1    1 Engineer                         S               S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          63.1/63.1                 120.3/120.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                 7.7/7.7                   12.6/12.6
Supervision                         47.4/50.0                 145.1/153.0
ICR                                   0.2/2.0                     0.5/6.0
Total                             118.4/122.8                 278.5/291.9
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                          ORH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Sector Policies                         OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                                * H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
O Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               O H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 0 H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Other (Please specify)            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Impact on road safety
E Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                       *HS OS  OU   OHU
Ol Overall                                            *H HS Os   O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os   OU  OHU
Ol Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ICR Mission Aide Memoire, November 15-21, 2000.
"Improvement of Gravel Road Maintenance and Introduction of Low-Cost Bitumenization Techniques",
SweRoad, December 1999.
"National ISPA Strategy: Transport Sector", Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Latvia, October
1999.
- 28 -






______________________________                                                                                                                                           IBRO  28187R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD   817
'A.  V   FT. ART         LZss   /  7                 23'                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24~  25-                      26'                       27'                         28-
~~FD~~~~AT~~~  7' CUIU    ms'- ~~~~~~~~~~~LATVIA
~~~~~~~A.k~~~~~EDFOFSA  ~~~~HGH AYPROJECT
FED. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0BRIDGES INCLUDED UNDER THE PROJECT
-~~~~~~~~  LAP{IA                                                                                                                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T TH~DUAL CARRIAGEWAYSEOT
~~~~~~F                                                                                                                 ,58' s_DU S
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0OTHER DAAIN ROADS  NATIONAL CAPITAL5-
'-'F---                                                                                            -         -'1                   P RST CLASS ROADS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  DISTRICT CAPITALSAS RAD  D5TIC CPIAL
'-' sL R ~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADSoSECTDIIS
FED  EFIDELT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                                              SEETDC7E
L_ RAILROAS                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,, Ape        ,      $   ,7 R U S S I A N
F ED.
57 55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72
,:=e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA /, 21Xe_
HA m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CUED. ERTRF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F8'~~~~AP, b,
AHrUoEoc'                 0        20      40       6U       E0       9L RIOFFETEDS                                                                     h  ara             \'   :             BEL  
* ~    ~      ~       2                        60 MILE 24 T5' 20  To VilDu ,)RIESMAC20
I-                                                                                                   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'0
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
~~8  22                 22'                         TA                         2T                          28               )          27                          28'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
e~~~~~~~ERH25



