Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16041 IV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Highway Project
February 28, 1997
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 30, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Lat
Lat 1   =  US$ 1.82
US$ 1   =  Lat 0.548
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT  - Average Daily Traffic
CIS - Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD - European Bank of Reconstruction and Development
EU  - European Union
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
HDM  - Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IRR  - Internal Rate of Return
JEXIM  - Japanese Export Import Bank
LRA  - Latvian Road Administration
LRD  - Latvian Road Department
LRSD - Latvian Road Safety Directorate
MOT  - Ministry of Transport
MU  - District State Road Management Unit
NCB  - National Competitive Bidding
NPV  - Net Present Value
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
PMS  - Pavement Management System
RMD  - Road Maintenance Division
RRA  - Regional Road Administration
SOE  - Statement of Expenditure
LATVIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Director:           Basil G. Kavalsky
Division Chief:     Dominique Lallement
Staff:              Anders Bonde, Task Manager



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Highway Project
CONTENTS
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................................................1
II. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR ................................................................2
A. The Road Network .........................................................                                                            2
B. Road Safety.                            ..........               ...............................................4
C. Highway Organization ...........................5..........5
D. Highway Planning and Expenditures ...........................                                                                         7
E. Design, Monitoring and Construction ......................... . 9
F.  Environmental Procedures and Issues ......................................................... 10
Im. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY ...............................................................                                          11
A. Bank Lending to Latvia                       .1........................................................ 1
B.  Strategy and Rationale for IBRD  Involvement in Latvia ........................ ................................. 11
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Highway Subsector                                               .        .     12
D. Highway Sector Strategy for Latvia .......................... ...............................                                        12
IV. THE  PROJECT .................................................................                                                             14
A. Project Objectives .........................................................                                                         14
B. Project Description ..........................................   ...... 14
C. Detailed Project Description .........................................................                                               15
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing .......................................................... 16
E. Status of Cofinancing ........ .................................................. 18
F. Project Implementation ...................................                                                                     ...... 19
G. Procurement .........................................................                                                                19
H. Disbursements .......................................................... 21
I.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing ......................................................... 23
J. Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................................   24.
K. Environmental Aspects .........................................................                                                     24
L.  Program  Objective Categories ......................................................... 24
M. Poverty Analysis .......................................................... 25
N. Participation .......................................................... 25
V. PROJECT  BENEFITS, RISKS AND  SUSTAINABILITY ................................................................                                26
A. Project Benefits .........................................................                                                          26
B. Risks ......................................................... 27
C. Project Sustainability ......................................................... 28
VI. AGREEMENTS & RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................................                                                     29



ANNEXES
Annex A - Latvian Road Administration Organization Chart
Annex B - Detailed Financing Plan
Annex C - Economic Analysis
Annex D - Project Implementation Schedule
Annex E - Implementation and Performance Monitoring Indicators
Annex F - Procurement Arrangements
Annex G - Procurement Plan & Schedule
Annex H - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex I - Supervision Plan
Annex J - Technical Services
Annex K - Road Safety: Comparison between Various Countries
Annex L - Road Fund Income and LRA Budget Projections
MAP  IBRD 28187



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Highway Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency:    Latvian Road Administration
Beneficiary:            Latvian Road Administration and road users
Poverty Category:       Not Applicable
Amount:                 US$ 20 million
Terms:                  Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at standard
LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:         0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See Table 4.2.
Net Present Value:      Net Present Value based on 12 percent opportunity cost of capital is
US$ 621 million.
Project ID Number:      LV-PE-8532
Map:                    IBRD 28187



I



Economic Background and the Transport Sector                                            1
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
I.  ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1.   Latvia, a country of 2.6 million people and 64,600 square km, achieved its independence in
1991, following the collapse of the Former Soviet Union. Average GNP per capita was US$ 2420 in
1995. The country is located on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea, bounded by Estonia to the north,
Lithuania to the south, and Russia and Belarus to the east.
1.2.   The country has taken major steps to transform its economy from a centrally planned to a
market oriented basis. An IMF-supported stabilization program has helped to liberalize prices and
uncouple the Latvian currency from the ruble zone. A Latvian currency, the Lat (Ls), was introduced
in 1993. Successful implementation of the stabilization program enabled the country to pursue an
independent monetary policy and to reap the benefits of a prudent fiscal policy. As a result, inflation
has sharply declined from over 900 percent in 1992 to 25 percent in 1995. The trade regime is largely
liberalized and other structural reforms are underway, supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan
approved in December 1996. Institutional changes needed to adapt Latvia to the new situation are in
progress, and the country's financial situation is still in transition. However, the country has weathered
the severe banking crisis that affected it in 1995. In early 1996, the Government's tightening of fiscal
policy and improved economic policies resulted in encouraging economic results, and the economy is
slowly recovering from the steep decline in output that accompanied the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Latvia's aspiration to become a member of the European Community hinges on its long-term exchange
rate stability, deepening of structural reform, and increase in income levels.
1.3.   The transport sector plays a key role in the Latvian economy due to the country's location.
The transport and communication sector accounted for 19.4 percent of the Gross Domestic Product in
1994. Freight shipments from Russia and other CIS countries to the West are the core of the transit
industry in Latvia. The centers of the freight transit industry are the seaports of Riga, Ventspils and to
a lesser extent Liepaja. Thirty five million tons of cargo and 80 percent of the country freight turnover
were due to seaports in 1994. Rail was the second dominant transport mode with 17 percent of the
country's freight turnover, and was mainly oriented to transit freight, which accounted for 73 percent
of its traffic. Roads accounted for forty percent of the goods transported in tons but only 2.5 percent of
the country's freight turnover, emphasizing the role of truck transport for short hauls.



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                   2
II.    THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
2.1.   Overview.    The Latvian road network appears adequate in terms of size for the present and
near future traffic volume, but more than one third of roads are in poor condition. The road safety
situation in Latvia is one of the worst in Europe. The institutions in the road sector have been going
through drastic changes in their way of working since Independence. The Road Department of the
Ministry of Transport has been and still is in the forefront of the transformation process in Latvia. The
Latvian Road Administration was reorganized to foster an economically efficient management and the
road construction and design companies were privatized.  The road safety authorities have been
reorganized but need strong international support to undertake measures that will reduce the number of
accidents to Western levels.  Despite the creation of a Road Fund, the budget allocated to road
maintenance remains insufficient to face the existing backlog of maintenance and to ensure that the road
network will be optimally maintained. Design standards, monitoring and construction implementation
need to be upgraded to achieve better quality and lower costs. Latvia has become increasingly aware
of the environmental impact of road traffic and road activities, and has introduced new environmental
laws to mitigate their negative impacts.
A. The Road Network
2.2.   Public Roads. The national road network in Latvia totals 20,402 kan, of which 38.3 percent
are bitumenized, 53.7 percent have a gravel pavement and 8.0 percent have an improved earth surface.
The national road network is categorized in three classes: Main (Primary) Roads; First Class
(Secondary) Roads; and Second Class (Tertiary) Roads.
Table 2.1: Pavement on the National Road Network
Bitumenized    Gravel      improved         Total        Total
__________________ .  .(kni)          (kim)      Earth (kIn)       km         Percent.
Main Roads              1,602              1                       1,603          7.8
First Class Roads       3,782          1,545            94         50421 1 0 ; 26.6
Second Class Roads      2,439          9,402         1,537        13,387         65.6
Totalf;  i;     ;; i ;;  7,823        10,947         1,631        20,4 02       100.0
2.3.   The Latvian Road Administration is responsible for 963 bridges totaling 31 km, of which 165
bridges are located on Main Roads. Bridges are generally small with an average length of 30 meters,
and 63 percent are more than 25 years old. Most bridges are constructed as precast concrete elements
in accordance with FSU design standards.
Table 2.2: Distribution of Bridges by Age (Percent)
I before 1940    1940-50    1950-60    1960-70    1970-O    1"980-93  I
5.6          3.1       17.7        37.5       19.9       16.9



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                         3
2.4.   Other Roads. Local roads total from 30,000 to 40,000 km in length. Local roads previously
maintained by Government authorities such as collective farms are now the responsibility of local
authorities and private owners. No reliable data concerning private roads are available.
2.5.   Traffic. Most international transit roads radiate from Riga: from the port of Ventspils via
Riga to the Russian border; from the port of Liepaja via Riga to the Russian border; the Via Baltica
(linking Poland and Finland through the Baltic States); and from Riga via Daugavpils to Belarus or
Russia. Another international link, from Vilnius to St-Petersburg, crosses the southeastern corner of
Latvia. Around 100 km of roads carry traffic of 4,500 to 15,800 vehicles per day. Around 330 km of
roads carry 3,000 to 4,500 vehicles per day, while the remaining sections of main roads carry 1,000 to
2,000 vehicles per day. First Class Roads carry less than 500 vehicles per day and 85 percent of the
network carries less than 150 vehicles per day. After a 50 percent traffic drop between 1990 and 1993,
traffic increased by 26 percent in 1994 and 22 percent in 1995.
2.6.   Adequacy of the Road Network. The public road density is 0.32 km per sq. km compared
with 0.22 to 0.27 in the Nordic countries. In relation to population, the public road density is 45 fo 70
percent that of the Nordic countries but Latvia has a lower per capita car ownership (134/1000 versus
400/1000 in the Nordic countries). Since 85 percent of the road network carries less than 150 vehicles
per day, the network could be assessed as oversized. However, given the growth in traffic during the
past two years, the comparison with Nordic countries and the development in cost effective
maintenance technologies for low traffic roads, the current public road network appears adequate but
not excessive for meeting the road traffic demand in the future.
2.7.   The legal single axle weight for trucks is 10 tons while buses are allowed 11 tons per axle. The
vehicle and axle weight restrictions are not enforced properly, which results in accelerating
deterioration of the road pavement by overloaded trucks. The bearing capacity of some bridges needs
to be increased for use by modern heavy trucks to avoid costly traffic diversion or premature
deterioration.
2.8.   Road Condition.  A road survey was carried out in 1994 by the consulting firm COWI-
BCEOM based on visual inspection, and the results were set forth in a report entitled " Survey of Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance in the Baltic Countries - Country report, Latvia " dated May 1995.
This survey considered two parameters to classify the roads in three different categories (poor, fair,
good): the roughness, which is the main parameter influencing vehicle operating costs, and the degree
and type of road distress, which enables forecasting the life expectancy of the road structure. The
results of this study are given as follows:
Table 2.3: Road Condition Depending on Traffic Level
.___.___.__ _R'ad Conditiwi .( Percent)
Average Daily Traffic       Average Daily Traffic
1000-3000                   3000-7000
Poor                                       35                           39
Fair                                       58                           48
Good                                        7                           13
2.9.   Bridge Condition. Bridge maintenance has been neglected for many years. More than half of
the bridges suffer from deferred maintenance and are in need of substantial repair. Common problems



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                       4
are the poor condition of joints, malfunctioning water proof layer, and thin concrete cover, all of which
have resulted in damage to steel reinforcements. Latvian Road Administration (LRA) bridge engineers
have systematically inspected bridges visually and recorded their deterioration, but they have not had
access to appropriate test equipment or inspection platforms, and little repair has been carried out. On
the Main Roads, among the 162 bridges, ten are considered in " high emergency condition " and 50 in
" emergency" condition. The LRA has received the US Bridge Management System Pontis free of
charge and the Latvian bridge experts are testing it to determine its appropriateness.
B. Road Safety
2.10.  The road safety situation in Latvia is one of the worst in Europe, with 19.9 fatalities per 10,000
vehicles in 1995 (see Annex K). The 22 percent decrease observed in recorded accidents (Table 2.4.)
between 1990 and 1993 was due to the 50 percent decrease in traffic. In 1994, the number of accidents
increased by 10 percent when traffic increased again, following the improvement in the Latvian
economy. In 1995, the number of killed decreased by 14.8 percent, while the number of serious
accidents increased by 6.3 percent and the number of injured increased by 11.9 percent. The decrease
in fatalities is generally attributed to the introduction of the mandatory use of seat belts at the beginning
of 1995. The Government has begun to take significant steps to remedy the poor road safety situation
(see paras. 2.23 & 2.24.).
2.11.  Cause of Accidents. While the number of accidents caused by trucks (8.1 percent of all 1995
accidents) decreased by 61 percent between 1991 and 1995, accidents caused by cars (78.8 percent of
all 1995 accidents) increased by 53 percent. Poor driver behavior, including disregard of speed limits
and drunken driving, appears to be the main reason. The difference in operating speeds of Western
and FSU vehicles and the poor condition of brakes or shock absorbers of some FSU vehicles often
increase the severity of accidents. Police reports indicate an increase by 170 percent in car accidents
due to speed violations between 1991 and 1994. In 1995, 56.4 percent of accidents caused by drivers
were linked with high speed and 35.2 percent with alcohol.
Table 2.4: History of Road Safety Statistics in Latvia
1980  1990  1993  1994  1995
Road traffic accidents                4717  4325  3389  3814  4056h
Injuries                              3894  4716  3721  4380  4903
Fatalities                             653    877   670   717   611
Injuries                Per 100,000    150   181    143   170    190
capita
Fatalities              Perl 100,000    25      34    26    28      26
t t 00000000      0 tt 000  i0  000000capita30 0          V       0 
Pedestrian and other
non-motorized user      (% of total)   NA'  43.2  47.7  39.1  38.6
fatalities
Not Available



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                      5
2.12. Location and Type of Accidents. In 1995, the urban road network accounted for 74 percent
of registered accidents, causing 62 percent of the injured and 43 percent of the fatalities; highways
accounted for 26 percent of the accidents causing 57 percent of the fatalities. The number of accidents
on highways decreased by 15 percent in 1995 compared with 1991 and the level of fatalities reached its
lowest level since 1989. The major types of serious accidents were collisions between pedestrians and
cars (37.2 percent of serious accidents in 1995), collisions between cars (24.5 percent) and exit from
the road (18.5 percent). Eighteen percent of the accidents accounting for 77 fatalities were partially
caused by road conditions. By reaching the EU level of road safety, Latvia would avoid 300 fatalities a
year (Annex K).
C. Highway Organization
2.13. Overview. The Road Department (LRD) of the Ministry of Transport (MOT) has the overall
responsibility for the management of the Latvian national road network.  The Latvian Road
Administration (LRA), a government agency under MOT's jurisdiction, has the operational
responsibility for carrying out maintenance and new construction for the National Road Network.
Private engineering  companies prepare the design of major road projects, Regional Road
Administrations (RRAs) or private contractors carry out works on a contract basis, and the Central
Laboratory in Riga tests quality independently. The Latvian Road Safety Directorate (LRSD), also a
government agency under MOT's jurisdiction, coordinates road safety activities.
2.14. The LRD. The LRD, staffed with 14 people, is responsible for overall road policy, road
strategy and transport planning.  This includes the following tasks: (i) development of strategic
programs for roads and road transport; (ii) development of legislative and regulatory acts; (iii)
coordination with local authorities; (iv) preparation of budget and financial planning; and (v) foreign
relations.
2.15. The LRA. The LRA, staffed with 50 persons, is responsible for the following activities: (i)
the annual investment planning for the national road network according to LRD strategic plans and
traffic forecasts; (ii) the management, supervision and maintenance of the national road network; and
(iii) the environmental impact of road activities. To carry out these activities, the LRA has seven
divisions in charge of : (i) organization of construction work and contract approval (Production
Division); (ii) road maintenance for the national road network (Road Maintenance Division); (iii) data
bank, pavement and bridge management systems, and technical standards (Technical Division); (v)
equipment and land purchase (Mechanics Division); (vi) internationally financed projects management
(Project Implementation Division or PIU -see para 2.17.); (vi) financial planning (Planning Division);
and (vii) accounting. Prior to Independence, LRA relied on 26 District Offices for maintenance of the
national road network and a number of publicly owned design institutes and construction companies for
road design and new construction. This organization has been changed and now LRA carries out its
construction and maintenance on a contract basis (see LRA Organization Chart in Annex A).
2.16.  Units under LRA's Responsibility.  (a) The District State Road Management Units (MiUs).
LRA has created twenty-six MUs of three persons each, which report to its Road Maintenance Division
(RMD) (see organization chart in Annex A). Every month, the MUs assess the needs of each District
in terms of maintenance and request funds from the RMD, which prioritizes the works to be carried out
in the country. Once the RMD completes the national prioritization and allocates funds, the MUs
contract out work to public or private enterprises and control the quality of the executed works through



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                       6
its own inspections supported by tests performed by the Central Laboratory. Since MUs have been
established recently, substantial staff training is needed to assure an adequate level of quality control.
2.17.  (b) The Pro ject Implementation Unit (PIU). A PIU has been set up as a division of the LRA to
manage the EBRD Highway Rehabilitation project (see Para. 2.25). The PIU prepares the bidding
documents according to international standards and lets contracts following EBRD procurement
guidelines. The overall project planning schedule is performed by the PIU while detailed project plans
are prepared on each work site by site supervisors.
2.18. Reorganization Study. Under the EBRD financed project, a road maintenance reorganization
study is being carried out by the consultant firm Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick. This study focuses on six
major aspects: (i) optimization of the distribution of funds between various maintenance activities; (ii)
enhancement of contracting out; (iii) introduction of more efficient maintenance technologies and
review of the existing ones; (iv) reduction of the number of Regional Road Administrations (RRAs)
from 26 to five or six; (v) reduction of road maintenance costs; and (vi) introduction of methodologies
to assess the value of LRA assets (bridge, roads) and to strengthen LRA in developing appropriate road
user charges. The study was completed in December 1996, and LRA plans to modify its structure
accordingly.
2.19. Design Enterprises. The only large road design enterprise in Latvia, Celuprojekts, is a former
public corporation that has become a private joint stock company mostly staffed with engineers from
the former Road Design Institute. That company's activities include design, planning, and economic
studies in cooperation with international consultants on almost every large road project in Latvia,
including Via Baltica. All of Celuprojekts' income is from contracts for work performed, 30 percent of
which is for the LRA.
2.20. The RRAs. The LRA has turned the 26 District Offices into 26 publicly owned road
maintenance enterprises called Regional Road Administrations (RRAs), which carry out routine
maintenance on a unit price basis for the LRA. The RRAs are also permitted to carry out work on a
contract basis for either public or private entities. The RRAs' income comes entirely from contracts
performed.
2.21.  Construction Enterprises.  After Independence, the Latvian road construction enterprises
radically modified their structures and methods of operation in order to survive in a difficult economic
environment. All of the enterprises changed from state-owned enterprises to private companies after
being sold to individuals through the privatization process. These enterprises created an association
called " Latvian Road Builders " in February 1995 that currently has 21 members. The association
communicates with LRA officials on quality/tender issues and with other associations, technological
institutes, consultants and foreign companies in order to improve the members' technical competence.
The association also checks the contractors' qualifications. With the contraction in road construction
and maintenance work that has occurred since 1991, contractors have had difficulty keeping a
minimum turnover to break even, and uncertainties about the availability of future work make it
difficult to invest in new equipment. Contractors do not have their own fully equipped laboratories to
test quality, and therefore they usually use the Central Laboratory. Only two of the companies have
staff who took part in training abroad. Almost all of the 21 companies belonging to the association
managed to get some contracts financed under the EBRD Highway Rehabilitation project in 1995.
Some contractors carry out routine maintenance for municipalities (patching/cleaning) and in some
cases manage to offer lower prices than local force account administrations.



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                      7
2.22. Central Laboratory. The Central Laboratory, which was part of LRA prior to Independence,
was reorganized in 1993. It has been established as a public corporation, and was substantially reduced
in size, now employing a staff of 16 persons. The main part of the financing comes from contracts for
tests carried out for the LRA and for private construction companies. One hundred fifty different tests
can be performed. However, many tests are outdated, and new testing equipment is needed to check
and benefit from state of the art pavement design and specifications. The laboratory's tasks include the
development of new technical specifications for materials. The asphalt laboratory works mainly on hot
mix design. A Technology Transfer Center called T2 financed by the American Federal Highway
Department (FHD) is attached to the Central Laboratory.
2.23.  The LRSD. The Government began to address road safety issues in a serious and systematic
way in 1992 by establishing a Road Safety Directorate (LRSD), a semi-autonomous public entity
reporting to the Ministry of Transport, to coordinate all road safety activities in Latvia. A modern
accident reporting system was introduced at the beginning of 1995 and is used by the Traffic Police to
record accident data. The LRSD staff enters accident data into a computerized accident analysis system
(MAAP) to identify accident black spots and road safety evolution.  The LRSD  defines the
requirements for obtaining drivers licenses, and promoted the enactment of mandatory wearing of seat
belt or new speed regulations (50 km/h in cities and 90 on highways). It also prepares training
programs for young children in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education. The LRSD is self-
financing from penalties and fees from transport vehicle registration, drivers licenses, and vehicle
inspection as a result of the vehicle registration and inspection system established in 1994. However,
remedial measures that require civil works are financed from the LRA's budget and not from LRSD's.
2.24. A consultant consortium including the consulting firms Viatek and SweRoad has been awarded
a contract, financed by EU Phare, to prepare the "Masterplan for the Maintenance, Development and
Operation of the Road Network and Road Safety Program". Under these consultant services, the
consultants will give an assessment of the road safety situation in Latvia and prepare a road safety
improvement program, which would identify institutional strengthening that is needed in Latvia,
including a review of legislation and law enforcement. The treatment of accident black spots (from
selection of the proper remedial measure to economic evaluation of the treatment) is another field for
which LRA and the LRSD need to develop their expertise, since it has proven to be a cost-effective
way of reducing the rate of accidents.
D. Highway Planning and Expenditures
2.25. History of Latvian Road Financing. Prior to Independence, the road sector was financed by
the state budget at an average level of US$ 115 million per year, which provided for an adequate level
of routine and periodic maintenance and for development of the road network.  Road budgets
dramatically decreased after Independence, with the 1992 budget at a level of only one tenth of the
1991 budget in real terms. To offset the lack of state budget financing, the Latvian Ministry of Finance
introduced a Road Fund, and since the funds raised were still insufficient to overcome the existing
backlog of maintenance, LRA sought foreign financing. The Road Fund, established as a Resolution
of the Cabinet of Ministers, is based on a vehicle tax, transit fees and fuel excise taxes (collected at the
border). It started accumulating funds in April 1994. It now provides 80 percent of LRA's financing.
Seventy percent of the Road Fund is allocated to LRA, while the remaining thirty percent goes to
municipalities and other entities maintaining local roads. In 1996, excise taxes on fuel were increased
to US$ 0.2/liter compared to US$ 0.08/liter previously. The LRA expected that income from the fuel



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                  8
excise and transportation taxes would increase from 17.6 million Lats in 1995 to 30.3 million Lats in
1996 following this increase. For 1996 and beyond, the Road Fund is expected to be the only domestic
resource for road maintenance. Since the existing law could be changed at any time, an agreement was
reached during negotiations that provides for the possibility of suspension of disbursements in the event
of a change that adversely affects LRA's ability to fulfill its functions of maintaining the road network
(see para. 6.1.(i)). The second major source of financing for road maintenance is foreign rmancing,
which comes from development institutions such as EBRD, the JEXIM Bank, the Kuwait Fund and the
World Bank. An EBRD-JEXIM Highway Project for US$ 26.8 million (EBRD: US$ 10.4 million;
JEXIM: US$ 10.4 million; Ministry of Transport: US$ 6 million) to repave portions of the road
network and construct the Jelgava Bypass was obtained in 1994. Funds became available in 1995, and
the major construction was carried out in 1996. In 1995, the LRA budget from both domestic and
foreign sources of financing reached 12.36 million Lats, equivalent to US$ 23.8 million and was
expected to increase to 28.6 million Lats, equivalent to US$ 52.1 million in 1996 as shown in Table
2.6. The projections of the Road Fund income and LRA resources are given in Annex L.
Table 2.5: Budget Evolution
(Current Million US$)
I .1991          1992           1993          1994           1995          1996 
115    _      10.9           9.2           15.0          23.8          52.1
Table 2.6: Estimnated Revenues and Expenditures for the LRA inl 1996
(Thousand Lats)
Resources                                     Amount    Percentage
Vehicle tax                5250.0         18.3
Excise tax                10780.0         37.7
Foreign loans             11882.9         41.5
Budget investment           670.0          2.3
Other revenues               55.3          0.2
Tot        VV                                  28638.2       100.0
Expenditures                                  Amount    Perceetiage
Routine Maintenance       11281.2         39.4
Periodic Maintenance      12539.0        43.8
Development                3172.0         11.1
Design                      391.0          1.4
Management                  955.0          3.3
Interest Rates on loans     300.0          1.0
Total                                          28638.2       100.0
2.26. Budget Preparation. Prior to Independence, the predecessor organization to LRA obtained its
budget from the central government in Moscow. Traditionally, 20-year road development programs
were prepared and updated every 5 years. Since Independence, budgets have been prepared by LRA in
cooperation with the LRD and submitted to the Ministry of Finance on an annual basis, with a separate
justification for major projects, which are included in an overall Public Investment Program.



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                  9
2.27.  Expenditures.  Since Independence, the decrease in LRA's budget as described in para 2.25
has resulted in a drastic reduction in road maintenance and an almost complete hold on new
construction except for the completion of partially constructed by-passes included in the EBRD/JEXIM
financed project. Routine and periodic road maintenance represents about 83 percent share of 1996
expenditures as shown in Table 2.6, while new road development represents only about 11 percent.
Every month, the estimated revenues coming from the Road Fund are allocated for road maintenance,
based on the request of the 26 MUs. The budget for routine maintenance in 1995 enabled the filling of
potholes on only 5,000 km of the 8,000 km of paved roads and salt spreading for only 2,500 km. Less
than US$ 2 million was allocated to gravel road maintenance.
Table 2.7: Expenditure of Road Sector in USS million
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
New Roads                 10.0    0.0    0.0    2.2    3.3
Capital Expenditure/      16.0    0.0    0.0       0    0.3
Reconstruction
Periodic 
Routine Maintenance       35.0    7.2    6.1    9.8   13.7
Management                 4.0    0.8    0.6    2.4    2.3
Total                    115.0   10.9    9.2   15.0   23.8
2.28. Annual Budget Needs. With its new Road User Charges, Latvia is expected to come closer to
a funding level appropriate to perform the optimum maintenance of its road network. A report
prepared by the consultant COWI/BCEOM made a preliminary estimate of annual maintenance
financing needs for road maintenance at 40 million Lats or US$ 73 million to minimize overall
transport costs. A consultant company is making a more refined assessment of the financing needs of
the Latvian Road Administration, reviewing the existing Road Fund and relevant Road User Charges in
a study now being carried out with financing from the EBRD/JEXIM Highway project (see Annex J).
E. Design, Monitoring and Construction
2.29.  Design.   Design standards and specifications are established by the Latvian Road
Administration with the assistance of the Central Laboratory. Most of these standards are still based on
the FSU design manual for geometric and pavement design. These standards do not take into account
the research that has been carried out over the past forty years worldwide to achieve better cost
efficiency in road construction and maintenance. Moreover, the pavements of many Latvian highways
are not adapted to the high tire pressures and heavy axle loads of modern trucks now performing most
of the heavy goods transport. LRA is trying to adapt design, specifications, construction technology
and testing to EU standards for highways. However, the selection of the most cost effective pavement
technology needs further development.
2.30. Condition Survey. Regular visual highway inspections are carried out by the RRAs on parts
of the network in the spring and autumn of each year. Each year the survey covers 100 percent of
Main Roads, 50 percent of First Class Roads and part of the Second Class Roads. The first survey
provides a general view of road conditions while the second gives a condition rating of the pavement.
Some visual roughness surveys have also been carried out. The recent introduction of a profilograph



The Road Sub-Sector                                                                  10
(laser instrument for measuring road condition) will enable LRA to monitor the road condition of the
total Main and First Class road network frequently and accurately.
2.31. Highway Database and Pavement Management System (PMS). A Pavement Management
System (Belman) is being introduced with the assistance of Danish consultants. The new PMS divides
the country into 5 zones - Riga, West, North, South, and East. The Riga area was used as a pilot
project to adapt the system to Latvian conditions. This system has been partially used for the present
project preparation and will provide LRA with cost benefit analyses for future years maintenance and
new construction operations.
2.32. Materials. Most stone materials used as aggregate are imported from Russia or Ukraine and
crushed in Latvia, but some used for low traffic roads are local. Low skid resistance due to poor
quality local aggregates is one of the weaknesses of Latvian roads. Bitumen was purchased in Russia
prior to Independence. However, due to its high paraffin content, Russian bitumen cracked rapidly and
is difficult to recycle with reliable results. The current quality of Russian bitumen varies greatly from
one shipment to another and is commonly not delivered on time. Consequently, bitumen is now
imported from Sweden via Estonia.
2.33. Construction Quality. The road network constructed during the FSU period was of generally
adequate design, followed by a period of generous maintenance. However, poor quality control,
workmanship and materials offset these advantages and resulted in high road traffic costs and in a need
for premature road rehabilitation and maintenance. In particular, poor drainage, poor compaction,
incorrect grading of aggregates, use of unsuitable types of bitumen, and uneven bitumen distribution
have resulted in a road network with many problematic areas where reconstruction/strengthening is
now required.
2.34.  Under the procedures recently adopted by LRA, bidders must outline their quality control
procedures and equipment when bidding for a contract. During project implementation, approximately
one tenth of the samples taken by contractors are tested again by LRA. In 1994, 20 percent of the
samples were rejected because of poor compaction. Under recently adopted contracting procedures,
failure to meet quality requirements results in a retention by LRA of 10 to 25 percent of the contract
amount.
F. Environmental Procedures and Issues
2.35.  Prior to Independence, environmental assessment was not given much attention in Latvia.
However, since that time, laws have been enacted and institutions established to address environmental
concerns.  A Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and an Environmental Protection
Committee are responsible for the environment. The Ministry of Transport deals with environmental
issues related to transport and has created its own environmental guidelines and procedures. There are
at least two laws aimed at environment protection: the Law on State Environment Impact Assessment
dated 9 October 1990 and the Law on Environmental Protection dated 6 August 1991.  An
Environmental Impact Assessment is required for any new or major project, and regulations concerning
noise limitations and pollution standards close to EU standards are to be introduced in the future. One
American-Latvian joint venture consultant company has been set up recently in Latvia to carry out
environmental consultant work on a contract basis.



The Bank's Experience and Strategy                                                   11
III. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
A. Bank Lending to Latvia
3.1.   Latvia joined the World Bank on August 11, 1992. On October 22, 1992, the first loan to
Latvia, a Rehabilitation loan for US$41.9 million (net of cancellation) cofinanced by a US$ 35 million
loan from JEXIM, was approved to assist the Government in the design and implementation of its
economic program. This was followed on January 11, 1994, by an Agriculture Development Loan
supporting private agriculture for US$ 25 million. The Bank approved an Enterprise and Financial
Sector Loan on September 20, 1994, for US$ 35 million including a credit line, technical assistance for
large-scale privatization and financing for rehabilitation of the payment system, a Liepaija Environment
laD for US$ 4 million in December 1994 and a District Heating Project in Jelgava for US$ 14 million
in May 1995. The Bank approved a Municipal Services Development Project in December 1995 for
US$ 27.3 million. The Bank approved a Structural Adjustment Loan in December 1996 to be released
in two tranches: the first tranche of DEM 30.2 million (about US$ 20 million equivalent) was released
at effectiveness and the second tranche of DEM 60.4 million (about US$ 40 million equivalent) will be
released on fulfillment of the specific second tranche conditions. The Bank's experience with project
implementation in Latvia has, on the whole, been satisfactory, and the overall performance by the PIU
have been good. However, the frequent changes in personnel that handle Bank projects in the Ministry
of Finance has sometimes led to delays in project implementation. The PIU for this project has already
shown its capability to handle all aspects of project administration during the execution of the ongoing
EBRD Highway project.
B. Strategy and Rationale for IBRD Involvement in Latvia
3.2.   The Bank's strategy for Latvia, as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy update discussed
by the Executive Directors during the presentation of the Structural Adjustment Project on December
19, 1996, is to support the Government's efforts to deepen structural reforms, in particular with
emphasis on measures that will stimulate private sector development. Improvements in the country's
essential infrastructure, including transport, provide the environment necessary for the successful
development of the private sector.  In terms of structural reforms, emphasis is being placed on
promoting private sector development and establishing a targeted system of social protection. Sector
specific interventions to complement the economy-wide efforts will focus on the delivery of social
services, on energy efficiency and on the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure. In consistency with
the Country Assistance Strategy update, this project will improve the efficient design of public
infrastructure investment, rehabilitation and maintenance programs, and support private sector
development.



The Bank's Experience and Strategy                                                    12
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Highway Subsector
3.3.   The proposed project will be the first IBRD highway project for Latvia. However, the ongoing
EBRD Highway Project has shown the capability of LRA and its PIU to manage an internationally
funded project. It has also shown that limiting bidding to local companies results in a poor level of
competition and high prices. Furthermore, the Bank has had considerable experience in financing
highway projects in other parts of the world, including Eastern Europe. Much of the Bank's lending
for highway operations was for road construction up to about 1980. However, the road building boom
of the 1960s and 1970s created an infrastructure that began to deteriorate rapidly in the late 1970s.
Road networks had expanded much faster than the corresponding maintenance budgets and institutional
capacities. Traffic was also increasing at a higher than projected rate, and axle loads often exceeded
the design capacity of pavements. The serious magnitude of the problem was demonstrated in a policy
2
study undertaken by the World Bank in 1987.  The study, which analyzed the extent of deterioration
of inter-urban main road networks in 85 countries receiving highway subsector assistance from the
Bank (including IDA), came to some startling conclusions. A quarter of the paved roads outside urban
areas required reconstruction in the mid-1980s, as did a third of unpaved roads. In addition, another
40 percent of the paved roads of these countries required strengthening. If the countries did not
improve their maintenance of roads, the eventual annual cost of maintenance could easily increase by
two or three times, and the cost to road users would rise even more.
3.4.   Concerned at the ever-growing backlog of road maintenance in borrowing countries, the Bank
has adopted many of the recommendations of the above policy study in its sector work and investment
projects. These include: (a) improvement in road planning and programming, including more reliable
information and management methods and the application of economic criteria, (b) strengthening and
reform of institutional performance, particularly by contracting out more maintenance activities to the
private sector, (c) reallocation of resources to balance construction and maintenance with increased
allocation of expenditures to reduce the maintenance backlog, and (d) improving the financing of roads,
particularly by the adoption of rational road user charge systems. Lending for roads is generally
conditional on countries having an appropriate balance of expenditure among new construction,
restoration and maintenance, depending on the level of road deterioration, and on having a system of
road user charges that generates most of the resources needed to keep the roads in reasonable
condition.
D. Highway Sector Strategy for Latvia
3.5.   There is an urgent need to prevent the further deterioration of the road network in Latvia,
particularly for those transit routes that play a large role in Latvia's economy. The project will assist in
improving the efficiency and adequacy of road maintenance operations, in developing the private
construction industry, and in improving LRA's management of the road network.   The
recommendations of the Bank's Road Deterioration Policy Paper (para. 3.3.) are reflected in the
Latvian Ministry of Transport's strategy for the highway subsector, along with other strategies that are
specific to the Latvian situation. The Latvian strategy includes: (a) improving road planning, including
the development of various road management systems; (b) restructuring the highway maintenance
organization by contracting out periodic maintenance to private sector contractors operating on a
2    World Bank Policy Study. Road Deterioration in Developing Countries: Causes and
Remedies. 1988.



The Bank's Experience and Strategy                                                       13
competitive basis; (c) building a small but strong road management organization that utilizes the most
efficient technology and effective quality control over the private contractors that it employs; (d)
developing within five years a competitive contracting industry for construction and periodic and
routine maintenance; (e) shifting the utilization of budget resources to an emphasis on maintenance
rather than new construction, and (f) increasing road user charges as a basis for providing the resources
needed for an adequate level of maintenance.
3.6.   The Bank's strategy for the highway subsector is to assist the Government in meeting this
challenge through a lending operation that would support expanded maintenance operations with
priority given to the main connecting routes with surrounding countries, and improvements in
operational procedures and techniques used in road maintenance activities, while encouraging the
Government to increase the resources available to meet the future need for road maintenance through
appropriate road user charges. The project would also include assistance from several bilateral donors
that are providing technical services and training in support of these objectives.
3.7.   The Government's ability to carry out its strategy for the road sector will depend on its ability
to generate the resources needed to do so. The recent increases in road user charges bode well for
increased budget levels in the future.  Foreign borrowing can assist in reducing the backlog of
maintenance, while over the longer run the Government must generate the resources needed for
maintenance from its own recurrent revenue collections. Also, road users should be required to pay
the costs associated with maintaining the road network in order to put decisions made in the transport
sector on a comparable basis with other transport modes. The increase in the fuel excise tax is a move
in the right direction but the Road Fund performance must be carefully scrutinized to assure that it
actually meets the future financing requirements for road maintenance.



The Project                                                                           14
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1.   The project would have the overall objective of preserving the Latvian road network and
minimizing total road transport costs in Latvia (the total road transport cost is the sum of the road user
costs, the maintenance costs, the construction costs and the accident costs). The specific objectives of
the project are to:
(i)       expand the level of periodic maintenance where it is economically justified;
(ii)      improve the efficiency and quality of the road maintenance by introducing improved
technology and quality control and by increasing LRA's cost consciousness and economic
justification capabilities;
(iii)     support the development of the private road construction and engineering industries;
(iv)       improve road safety conditions in Latvia; and,
(v)       establish the mechanism and level of funding required to achieve the minimum total road
transport cost.
4.2.   These objectives are consistent with the Bank's desire to assist Latvia in its transition from a
centrally planned to an efficient market oriented economy. They will enable Latvia to establish the
management of roads based on cost efficiency, to provide critical transport infrastructure to meet the
needs of the expanding private sector, and to develop the private construction industry.  These
objectives will also assist Latvia to strengthen its role as a transport corridor between several major
production centers in neighboring countries. The achievement of these project objectives will be
monitored as shown in Annex E.
B. Project Description
4.3.   An IBRD Loan of US$ 20 million combined with cofinancing from the Kuwait Fund, EU
Phare, Sweden, France and Finland would finance a three-year program of urgently needed highway
maintenance, and a program of technical services to strengthen institutions and improve road
maintenance operational efficiency. The total project cost is estimated at US$ 56.9 million. The main
components of the proposed project are:
(a)      Periodic Highway Maintenance (US$ 27.0 million).  Repaving/rehabilitation of priority
sections of the Main and First Class road network consisting of 230 km of overlay and 750
km of surface dressing. Priority will be given to the roads with the highest Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) based on detailed pavement surveys and on the results provided by the
Bellman Pavement Management System.



The Project                                                                              15
(b)      Bridge Repair and Reconstruction (US$ 12.3 million). Repair and reconstruction of bridges
in critical condition on the Main and First Class Roads.
(c)      Road Safety Improvement (US$ 6.0 million).  Design and implementation of remedial
measures to improve major accident black spots identified during the preparation of the
project (US$ 2.5 million), and improvement of road safety in the Bauska and lecava Region
(US$ 3.5 million).
(d)      Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost Bitumenization Techniques (US$ 0.7 million).
Technical services to introduce cost-efficient maintenance of gravel roads including low cost
bitumenization and to perform economic evaluation of these techniques (US$ 0.2 million),
and implementation of pilot projects to complement the technical services (US$ 0.5 million).
(e)      Equipment for the Central Laboratory (US$ 0.5 million). Laboratory equipment to perform
European Union-standard testing (US$ 0.5 million).
(f)      Institutional Strengthening and Training (US$ 0.7 million). This will include services to
(i) review the detailed design, quality control and supervision under the project (US$ 0.3
million for highways and US$ 0.1 million for bridges); (ii) improve design procedures and
prepare a research program to adopt EU standards (US$ 0.1 million); (iii) strengthen the
local road construction industry through the provision of training for private road
construction and engineering companies (US$ 0.1 million); and (iv) improve LRA's and
LRSD's capabilities to identify accident black spots and to design remedial treatments (US$
0.1 million).
The project cost estimate also includes physical contingencies as well as price contingencies as
described in para. 4. 11. for a total amount of US$ 9.7 million.
C. Detailed Project Description
4.4.   Periodic Highway Maintenance would include an estimated 230 km of overlay and 750 km of
surface dressing in order to bring the existing pavements up to an economically optimal level of
roughness and strength considering existing and future traffic levels. Road sections to be repaired have
been selected on the basis of road condition surveys on the full Main Road Network followed by
economic evaluation using the HDM III model to determine the sections and maintenance alternatives
with the highest rates of return. The survey will be repeated each year taking into account the
variations in traffic and additional deterioration to determine if any change in prioritization has
occurred. The detailed pavement design will be based on evaluation and testing of the road conditions
and use of the Pavement Management System to select the most economic pavement repair alternatives.
4.5.   Bridge Repair and Reconstruction would include repair, reconstruction and/or strengthening
of about 15 bridges in critical condition located on main transit routes.  As a result of poor
maintenance, the bearing capacity of most bridges has decreased to levels requiring traffic diversion in
the next five years unless the proposed repairs are made. Some of the road bridges also need widening
to ensure better traffic safety. The economic internal rates of return and net present values were
calculated for these bridges, but the sequence of repair will be determined on the basis of when each
bridge is expected to be no longer serviceable.



The Project                                                                              16
4.6.   Road Safety Improvement. This component would include design, training and civil works
for the improvement or elimination of accident black spots. The Latvian Road Safety specialists would
be trained in accident black spot identification, design of remedial measures and preparation of
economic justifications for the remedial measures. In parallel, remedial measures to improve some
accident black spots identified during project preparation would be implemented.
4.7.   The Project would also include the design and implementation of a road safety plan for the
Bauska and lecava Regions, two of the worst in the country in terms of road safety, in cooperation with
EU-Phare, which is financing 68 percent of the costs on a grant basis. This plan has several
components: (i) to analyze the traffic safety problems in these regions and the local
assessment/collection of data on accidents; (ii) to define effective improvement measures for traffic
safety and implement them; (iii) to develop cooperation between local entities; and (iv) to perform these
tasks as a pilot project that could be applicable to the whole of Latvia.
4.8.   Gravel Road Maintenance and Low Cost Bitumenization Techniques. The gravel road
network in general carries very limited traffic but is used to serve the rural areas. It is important to
establish the appropriate service level and minimum cost to keep these roads operational. LRA wants
to reduce the total road and transport costs on gravel roads by introducing improved gravel road
maintenance techniques and by introducing cost-effective bitumenization techniques for low traffic
roads. This component would consist of technical services to introduce new technologies and the
application of these new technology on some test sections. The technical services would address three
main aspects: (i) an analysis of the present status of gravel roads, standards and techniques; (ii) the
introduction of state of the art techniques for gravel road maintenance and low cost bitumenization;
and (iii) the introduction of economic evaluation models to identify the most economic road
construction and maintenance strategy.  The implementation of test sections would consist of the
identification, design, economic evaluation and supervision of pilot projects.
4.9.   Equipment for the Central Laboratory would include laboratory equipment to complement
the equipment procured under the EBRD highway project and would be based on EU standards in
terms of testing requirements.
4.10.  Institutional Strengthening and Training would include the use of foreign technical advisers
to provide practical assistance to LRA in reviewing detailed design for the bridges and for the highway
sections included in the project, and in establishing an appropriate contract supervision and quality
control system, assisted by the services of international consultants for a period of 25 man-months.
This would be complemented by a review of Latvian design standards, the preparation of a Research
Program to adapt EU standards to Latvian conditions and the introduction of a new design catalogue.
Training would be provided to the construction industry to familiarize the contractors and engineering
companies with contract procedures, to enhance the quality of their services and to develop their skills
and competitiveness as contractors. On-the-job training would be performed for analysis of accident
black spots and design of the necessary remedial measures.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11. The estimated cost of the project is US$ 56.9 million net of tax and duties, but including price
and physical contingencies. The foreign component is US$ 38.3 million, equivalent to 67.3 percent of



The Project                                                                              17
total project costs. Foreign and local costs were estimated on the basis of June 1996 prices and include
physical contingencies of ten percent for materials, equipment and civil works amounting to US$ 4.7
million. Price contingencies amounting to US$ 5.0 million are based on forecasts of inflation for
foreign supplied goods and services of 2.4 percent per annum and for local costs of 14 percent for
1997, 11 percent for 1998 and 9 percent for 1999. The estimated cost of the project is given in detail
in Annex B and is summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Project Cost Estimate (Net of Duties and Taxes)
Million of Lats       Million of Dolars
Project Component                    Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
as
percent
__________________________________            _______         ~~~~of Total
Periodic Highway Maintenance          4.4   10.4    14.8    8.0    19.0   27.0    70.0
Bridge Repair and Reconstruction      2.0    4.7       6.7    3.7    8.6   12.3        70.0
Road Safety Improvement                1.0    2.3      3.3     1.8    4.2    6.0       70.0
Gravel Road Maintenance and low cost   0.1    0.3      0.4     0.2    0.5    0.7       70.0
Bitumenization Techniques
Equipment for the Laboratory          0.0    0.3       0.3    0.0    0.5    0.5    100.0
Institutional Strengthening and Training  0.1    0.3   0.4    0.1    0.6    0.7        85.0
Total Base Cost (June 1996 Price)      7.6    18.3    25.9   13.8   33.4   47.2        70.8
Physical Contingencies                0.8      1.8     2.6     1.4    3.3    4.7       70.8
Price Contingencies                    1.8    0.9      2.7    3.4      1.6    5.0      32.0
TOTAL                                 10.2   21.0    31.2    18.6   38.3   56.9    67.3
4.12.  The World Bank would finance US$ 20.0 million or 35 percent of total project costs, the
Kuwait Fund would finance US$ 15.0 million, EU Phare would finance US$ 5.8 million equivalent,
Sweden, France and Finland would provide US$ 0.3 million, US$ 0.1 and US$ 0.3 million respectively
for technical services and training, and the Government of Latvia would finance US$ 15.4 million plus
any duties and taxes payable on items procured for the project. EU Phare, Sweden, France and
Finland would provide their financing on a grant basis.
4.13.  The Ministry of Finance was offered a choice of loan products and selected a US dollar single
currency loan as the most suitable option. Loans from the IBRD and the Kuwait Fund would be made
available to LRA through the Ministry of Finance. The local contribution to the project and the
repayments would be taken from the LRA's share of the Road Fund. Assurances were received during
negotiations that the Government and LRA would make available the level of resources needed to
finance their respective share of the project (see Para 6.1 (ii)). The Ministry of Finance has decided to
exempt the project from VAT for goods contracts awarded to international contractors, but still has to



The Project                                                                          18
decide whether VAT would be applied to local companies. Where VAT applies, it will be the
responsibility of the LRA to finance it.
4.14.  Financial Impact.    There is no additional fiscal claim on the Ministry of Finance from
either the provision of counterpart funds for the project or for the repayment of the loan since these are
the responsibility of the LRA and will be financed from funds that would be available to the LRA in
any event, as noted in para. 4.13. The annual contribution of the LRA to the project would average the
equivalent of US$ 3.8 million each year for three years and interest would reach a level of US$ 3.0
million in 2000 (for the World Bank and Kuwait Fund loans together). The repayment of principal and
interest after the grace period would average US$ 5.1 million annually and would never exceed more
than 7 percent of LRA's budget, which should be easily manageable (see Annex L). Furthermore, the
resources to be made available by the LRA as counterpart funds are budget resources that would have
been used for the same purpose if the loan did not exist (i.e. periodic maintenance), and therefore LRA
would not have to delay any scheduled and economically justified activities because of the project.
4.15.     Road User Charges Study. The study of the existing Road Fund Resolution, the future
requirements for road maintenance, and recommendations for improvements of the existing schedule of
charges is being financed by EBRD. Assurances were received at negotiations that LRA will carry out
a study of (a) the required level of financing needed to maintain Latvia's public road network; and (b)
the possible financing and collection mechanisms for road maintenance, in accordance with terms of
reference already agreed with EBRD; that LRA will, by June 30, 1997, review the results and
recommendations of the study with the Bank, and by December 31, 1997, implement recommendations
of the study agreed with the Bank and EBRD, including presentation to Parliament of any amendments
to the Road Fund Resolution (para. 6.1 (iii)).
4.16. The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 4.2: Financing Plan (Net of Duties and Taxes)
(US$ Million)
Local              Foreign               Total
World Banrk                  1.7                   8.3                20.0
Kuwait Fund                  1.5                  13.5                15.0
EUhare                     005.8                                     5.8
Sweden                       0.0                   0.3                 0.3
Finland X0.0                                       0.3                 0.3
France                       0.0                   0.1                 0.1
Government-                 15A4                   0.0                15.4
TOTAL                       18.6                  38.3                56.9
E. Status of Cofinancing
4.17.  Relationship with Other Financing Agencies. Cofinanciers identified for this project include
the Kuwait Fund, EU-Phare, Sweden, France and Finland. The World Bank would take maximum
advantage of the technical work carried out under the EBRD project. The Kuwait Fund has indicated
its willingness to participate in the project, subject to an appraisal and an approval from its Board. The
Kuwait Fund financing would be on a parallel financing basis. The EU Phare financing would be
provided as grant on a parallel financing basis. The division of the financial packages has been



The Project                                                                          19
arranged so that each package would be economically valid on its own, and therefore cross-
conditionality is not required. Sweden, France and Finland would provide the support for technical
assistance and institutional training, as mentioned previously. A financing plan per component and per
financier is shown in Annex B.
F. Project Implementation
4.18. Overall project implementation would be managed by the existing Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) within the LRA. This PIU was created to assist in the implementation of the EBRD project, and
would continue in operation until this proposed project is completed (see para 6.1 (iv)). It would serve
as a liaison between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and would be the central
point of contact for the Bank, the Kuwait Fund and other donors supporting the project. The Project
Manager of the PIU would be responsible for assuring that LRA prepares annual work programs,
financing plans and periodic reports of the project's progress. The annual financing plan would include
the level of contribution required from the LRA to finance its part of the project. The Project Manager
would arrange for audits of project accounts and for the training sessions for contractors. He would
assure that LRA follows the IBRD Procurement Guidelines. The operating cost of the PIU would form
part of the contribution of LRA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, by November 1 of
each year during execution of the project, LRA will prepare an annual work program and financing
plan for the next calendar year for the work to be carried out under the project, and will reach
agreement on them with IBRD before implementing them. The annual financing plan will include
financing needed for LRA to finance its share of project activities and a projection of the sources of this
financing (see para 6.1. (v)).
4.19. The project implementation schedule and performance monitoring indicators are given in
Annexes D and E. The schedule is based on the civil works being carried out in the 1997, 1998 and
1999 construction seasons, with some disbursements carrying over into 2000, and the training and
technical assistance components extending into 1998.
4.20.  LRA has stated that economic analysis would be the basis for all its investments during the life
of the project and that only investments with a positive NPV based on opportunity cost of capital of 10
percent would be undertaken. To be able to review the economic evaluation process, assurances were
received at negotiations that by November 1 of each year, LRA would submit to the Bank the results of
its economic evaluation for its proposed road maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the following
year and for all of its investment projects, based on LRA's Pavement Management System (see para
6.1. (vi)), and that it will undertake only investments with a positive NPV based on a 10 percent
opportunity cost of capital, and will give priority to the investments with the highest ratios of NPV to
investment costs (see para. 6.1. (vii)).
G. Procurement
4.21. The procurement arrangements are included in Annex F, while Table 4.3 summarizes the
project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement. The details of the
procurement arrangements are set forth in the Procurement Plan and Schedule in Annex G. LRA will
use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, and procurement procedures for IBRD financed contracts



The Project                                                                             20
will be in accordance with the January 1995, revised January and August 1996, World Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Elements                            Procurement Mehffod
ICB        NCB        Other    Non IBRD      Total
Financed     Cost
1. Civil Works:
Highway Periodic Maintenance,     19.1        4.8                   31.2        55.1
Bridge Repair and                (15.0)      (4.0)                             (19.0)
Reconstruction, Gravel Road
Maintenance and Low Cost
Bitumenization, Road Safety
Improvements                   _
2. Equipment, Goods
Laboratory Equipment and Gravel                          0.91                   0.9
Road Component                                          (0.8)                   (0.8)
3. Consultancies and Training                                0.2        0.7        0.9
Institutional  Strengthening  and                       (0.2)                  (0.2)
Training                    _      _
Total                                19.i        4.8         1.1        31.9       56.9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (1 5.0  (4 .0  (0 )  ) _ _ _ _ _ ( 0.0 )
Note : Amount in parentheses are fmanced by the IBRD loan.
I/ National Shopping for Materials for the Gravel Road Maintenance Component for US$ 300,000. International
Shopping for US$ 600,000 Laboratory Equipment (including contingencies).
4.22. Goods. The Gravel Road Component is a research program developed through small pilot
projects, some of which will be implemented by RRAs financed directly by LRA and others by private
construction companies financed by the loan and procured under NCB procedures. For the 6 RRA
implemented pilot projects scattered over the country, the loan will finance only materials through six
contracts of approximately US$ 50,000 each awarded under National Shopping. There would be three
contracts of US$ 200,000 each for the purchase of laboratory equipment for a total estimated amount of
US$ 600,000. The laboratory equipment would be procured using International Shopping.
4.23. Civil Works. There would be 14 ICB contracts at an average of US$ 1.36 million for an
accumulated total estimated cost of US$ 19.1 million, with US$ 14.9 million for repaving, US$ 2.9
million for bridge rehabilitation, and US$ 1.3 million for road safety improvements. Other civil works
contracts of less than US$ 500,000 per contract for overlay work, bridge repairs, gravel road pilot
activities and the improvement of accident black spots would follow NCB procedures using the Sample
Bidding Documents- Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works-National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) dated January 1995. Sections of roads selected for overlays would be grouped into suitable
packages. Each contract package would be kept to a size that could be completed in one construction
season. There would be around 15 NCB civil works contracts financed jointly by IBRD and the



The Project                                                                              21
Implementing Agency, each contract valued at an average of US$ 320,000 for a total cost estimated at
US$ 4.8 million.
4.24.  The introduction of competitive bidding procedures raises a number of issues that grow out of
the restructuring of force-account agencies and an infant industry. An anticipated area of difficulty is
the perceived inability of the newly established private firms to meet financial criteria.  The
construction firms have their accounts audited for control purposes only, if at all. Their accounting
methodology does not always include western type depreciation of assets, and it might be difficult to
determine their credit-worthiness. The project would include training for the construction firms, as
described in Annex J, to update their accounting systems and to facilitate international audits. The
eligibility of the contractors would be subject to their meeting the criteria outlined under clause 1.8(c)
of the January 1995 World Bank Procurement Guidelines. Furthermore, RRAs will be allowed to bid
only if LRA treats them on the same footing as any other contractors. Government or State subsidies
to these restructured agencies, in any form whatsoever, would disqualify them from participating in
Bank-financed contracts. Foreign bidders will be permitted to participate in any bidding.
4.25. Prior Review. Prior review would apply to all ICB contracts, contracts for works above US$
500,000 and to the first two NCB contracts for works. This level of review should be adequate to
assure good quality preparation considering the repetitive nature of these contracts.
4.26.  LRA has experience in implementing this type of project through its involvement with the first
EBRD project. However, a limited amount of technical support would still be required and will be
provided through grant financing from EU Phare, Finland, France and Sweden in such areas as
preparation of World Bank Standard bidding documents and procurement, project management and
supervision. The Project Launch Workshop referred to in paragraph 4.35 was held in December 1996
to provide guidance for the preparation of bidding documents for the first construction season. The
General Procurement Notice has been issued and will be updated annually thereafter.
4.27.  Consultant Services. Consultants to be financed by IBRD will be selected according to the
World Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as an Executing Agency (August, 1981). The major consultancy contract financed by the IBRD
is for the review of the design and the establishment of an appropriate supervision and quality control
system for a total amount of US$ 200,000. Prior review by IBRD would apply to all IBRD financed
contracts for consulting services supplied by firms at more than US$ 100,000 per contract, for
individuals at more than US$ 50,000 per contract, and for all Terms of Reference. Other consultant
services for Institutional Strengthening and Training including procurement related Technical
Assistance are expected to be financed through bilateral sources and will be contracted according to
their respective procedures with the condition that the Terms of Reference and the qualification of the
consultants selected by bilateral donors should be acceptable to the Bank.
4.28. Procurement information will be collected by the PIU and reported to IBRD as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of bidding, bid evaluation results and contract award
information; and
(b)    quarterly reports indicating: (i) project progress and problems; (ii) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best estimates for
physical and price contingencies; and (iii) revised schedules of procurement actions,



The Project                                                                           22
including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts.
H. Disbursements
4.29.  Disbursements are expected to be completed in four years.  An estimated schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex H. The expected closing date is December 31, 2000, about one year
after completion of the civil works. A comparison can not be made to standard disbursement profiles
for the Transportation Sector since the project involves only maintenance or limited reconstruction and
no new construction.
4.30. The expenditures for contracts for goods valued at less than US$ 200,000 and for works valued
at less than US$ 500,000 would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE)
procedures. The supporting documentation for these contracts would not be sent to IBRD, but would
be retained by the borrower for inspection by supervision missions and by external auditors. All other
disbursements would be fully documented. The minimum size of applications for direct payment and
for the issuance of Special Commitments would be 20 percent of the amount of the authorized
allocation to the Special Account.
4.31.  To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in a
major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD to cover IBRD's share of
expenditures. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would
be limited to US$ 750,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached
the level of US$ 2.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$ 1.5 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications
should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as
other appropriate supporting documents.
4.32. The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed on the following basis:



The Project                                                                         23
Table 4.4: Estimated Disbursements
(excluding VAT and other taxes and duties)
Category                Amount of Loan     Percent of Expenditures
(US$ mifllon)        to be Financed
1. Civil works
(a) Highway Periodic Maintenance          11.6               75 percent
(b) Bridge Repair                          2.9               95 percent
(c) Road Safety Improvements               2.2               85 percent
(d) Gravel Road Component                  0.3               75 percent
2. Equipment, materials & supplies         0.8           100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 75 percent of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Engineering Design and Supervision      0.2               100 percent
4. Unallocated                             2.0
TOTAL                                      20.0
I. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
4.33. The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related accounts
will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual financial statements
of IBRD-financed components and for LRA's overall operations will be prepared in a format acceptable
to IBRD and audited in accordance with International Auditing Guidelines by suitably qualified
independent auditors acceptable to IBRD, and submitted to IBRD within six months of the close of
LRA's financial year. Audits will also be carried out at the same time, and for corresponding periods,
in accordance with IBRD guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due
to be made out of the loan proceeds, and specific reference will be made in the audit reports
accompanying the financial statements.
4.34. Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by LRA and sent
to IBRD within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will include: (a) progress



The Project                                                                             24
achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance indicators,
including number of contracts awarded and length of roads rehabilitated/maintained; (b) work programs
and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project; and (c) procurement information as
specified in para. 4.28 (b). The main purpose of the reports will be to provide LRA timely and
updated information on implementation of project components, highlighting issues and problem areas,
recommending actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous recommendations. LRA will
also prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in accordance with IBRD guidelines and
submit it to IBRD promptly after completion of the project but in any event not later than six months
after the loan closing date.
J. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.35.  Three Bank supervision missions the first year and two the following years, each staffed by a
senior highway engineer and such specialists as may be appropriate for each phase of the project (such
as a procurement expert or traffic safety specialist) would be required over the life of the project, each
of about one to two weeks. The total amount of supervision envisaged annually would be 10-16 staff
weeks in the field plus six staff weeks in the headquarters. A Project Launch Workshop was held in
December 1996 with instruction on Bank Procurement Guidelines, disbursement procedures and
reporting requirements. Subsequent missions would review physical progress and the evolution of
Implementation and Performance Monitoring Indicators as described in Annexes D & E, and would
assist in coordinating the cofinanced elements of the project.  Cofinanciers would be invited to
participate in all supervision missions. A schedule of supervision missions is included as Annex I. A
mid-term review would be held not later than December 31, 1998, to assess the performance of the
project and effectiveness of the project arrangements, to review the adequacy of road user charges, and
for the reallocation of funds between project categories if necessary. In anticipation of this review,
LRA will prepare a report by October 30, 1998, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities that it has carried out on the progress
achieved under the project and setting out any measures recommended to ensure the achievement of the
balance of the project objectives during the remainder of the project implementation period.
Assurances were received at negotiations on these points ( para. 6.1 (viii)).
K. Environmental Aspects
4.36.         The routine and periodic maintenance operations included in the project are not
expected to generate any significant environmental problems since work would be done on existing
roadways using existing asphalt plants and quarries. The effects are mainly related to the production of
asphalt concrete, during which fumes are emitted, the mining of aggregate, and the
repair/reconstruction of bridges over rivers, which could disturb fish spawning. An environmental
review has been prepared and concludes that with careful planning of implementation of works and of
selected remedial measures, the project would have no significant adverse impact. Since the project
has been rated as Category B, a full Environmental Impact Assessment is not required.



The Project                                                                                25
L. Program Objective Categories
4.37.  The project would contribute directly to the sustainable development of Latvia by preserving
the road network, which is an important part of the country's essential infrastructure, and by making
Latvia more competitive by reducing transport costs. It would also make a significant contribution to
the development of the private sector in Latvia through the strengthening of the construction industry.
M. Poverty Analysis
4.38.  The project is designed to facilitate overall economic growth, and only indirectly to contribute
to alleviating poverty. Project implementation requires the equivalent of 30,000 worker man-months,
thus providing increased job opportunities for Latvian workers. In the longer run, with financing from
the Road Fund, the newly privatized road construction industry will have a market large enough to
ensure its viability over a continuous period of time. This is likely to result in higher wages and
employment of new workers. On the road users' side, improved access and reduction in vehicle
operating costs will facilitate trade and access to essential social services (schools, hospitals) and
markets, including those for agricultural products and small industry goods.  Furthermore, the
reduction in vehicle operating costs will have a direct impact on poverty by reducing the final cost of
products and of public transportation. While not a targetted poverty operation, this project should
contribute to lessening poverty in rural areas and overall, through its contribution to the increased
growth of the economy.
N. Participation
4.39. During project preparation, the World Bank missions consulted extensively with LRA,
Regional Road Administrations, road construction consultants and contractors, the Central Laboratory
and the various Ministries in discussions of the project components, the concept of total transport cost
for the society and of competitive bidding, and the requirements of a market-based economy. The
consultation was held at a central level rather than with local authorities since only maintenance of the
main road network is included in the project. Unlike new construction, periodic maintenance in Latvia
is not expected to cause significant shifts in traffic patterns. Therefore the choice of the appropriate
periodic maintenance and the sections to be maintained included in this project is guided mainly by
technical and economic considerations at a national level. There will, however, be some traffic
disruptions caused by the partial or complete closing of bridges during bridge repairs. In these cases,
the local authorities will be consulted in advance so that appropriate traffic diversion and other traffic
management requirements are introduced in order to minimize the impact on the local population and
the road users.



Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability                                              26
V.     PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Project Benefits
5.1.   Periodic Maintenance Component.  The project would enable Latvia to expand periodic
maintenance during a three year period (1997-1999), thus extending the life of the highway system and
avoiding costly reconstruction and rehabilitation expenditures. The project would also improve road
conditions, thus reducing vehicle operating costs. This will reduce overall transport costs, making
Latvian industry more competitive and making Latvia more attractive for foreign investors.  An
additional project benefit would be the experience gained by local contractors in carrying out
maintenance work on a competitive basis and at higher quality standards.
5.2.   The project maintenance alternatives were determined through the use of the HDM III Model
(see Annex C) after a roughness survey of the entire Main Road Network. This model analyzed more
than 200 different sections of road and their characteristics, the level of traffic, the characteristics of the
vehicle fleet, and 5 different maintenance strategies for each of the sections. The model estimated for
each alternative and each section the evolution of the road condition, the total transport cost for users,
and the NPV and IRR. The most cost efficient alternatives were selected accordingly and were used as
a basis for prioritizing the sections to be rehabilitated.
5.3.   Bridge Repair and Reconstruction. The bridge component would focus on urgent repair or
reconstruction needs of Main Road bridges, since many bridges no longer have sufficient bearing
capacity after years of neglected maintenance. Part of the traffic would have to be diverted to longer
routes in the near future if no repair is undertaken, and these diversions would result in higher vehicle
operating costs for the users. The Latvian Road Administration has selected fifteen bridges in critical
condition and essential for the Latvian Road network. The remaining life span and the decrease in the
bearing capacity of these bridges have been assessed through a survey. The corresponding savings that
could be achieved by avoiding the diversion of traffic have been assessed and compared to the cost of
various repair alternatives deemed acceptable by a bridge specialist, and the most cost effective
alternatives were selected.
5.4.   Accident Black Spot Improvement. The Road Safety component would reduce the high
accident rate in Latvia through improvement of accident black spots, with a saving in human lives,
hospital costs, and vehicle repair costs. The activities have been selected on the basis of economic
analysis with priority given to low cost remedial measures. The impact of each selected remedial
measure on the number of accidents can be estimated as a coefficient of reduction in accidents. Because
of the absence of appropriate Latvian accident statistics, Finnish coefficients of reduction in the number
of accidents have been used to assess the IRR and NPV. This use is conservative in terms of expected
benefits because Finland dealt with its major accident black spots 10 years ago and the remedial
measures to accident black spots now have a limited impact compared to Latvia.



Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability                                           27
5.5.   Economic Benefits.   The results of the project economic analysis are as follows (see Annex
C):
Table 5.1: Economic Analysis
Project Components                  Cost          NPV-12% cost of           IRR
(US$ million)         capital            (percent)
(US$ tmillion)
Periodic Highway Maintenance         27.0                85.5                34.9
Bridge Repairs                       12.3               525.0               227.0
Road Safety Improvement               6.0                10.2                65.0
Table 5.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Project Components               Modified Assumptions       NPV-12% cost of    IRR
capital      (percent)
(US$ milion)
Peridic Highway Maintenance    20 percent higher costs of         55.0            28.0
construction and low traffic
growth (2 percent)
Bridge Repairs               20 percent higher costs of          432.0            197.0
construction and low traffic
growth
Road Safety Improvement      20 percent higher costs of            4.8            34.0
construction and value of an
individual's contribution to
society lowered by 20 percent
5.6.   Shadow pricing. Most equipment and material included under the project are internationally
traded and world market prices have been used. The costs for Road Maintenance civil works,
including labor, were based on a weighted average of Scandinavian and Latvian prices, while the costs
of repair for bridges are international costs. The underlying assumption is that competitive bidding
would bring the presently high domestic prices closer to world market prices.
B. Risks
5.7.   Project risks are considered as moderate because of the competence of the Latvian Road
Administration, the experience of its PIU in managing foreign-financed projects and the commitment of
the Lavian Governement as indicated by the establishment of a Road Fund to finance road maintenance
costs. The three principal risks the project will face are the following:



Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability                                            28
Risk-                                     Mitia tion
1. Short term  financing   LRA's inability to  The local contribution amounts to less than the
finance its contribution to the project.     estimated increase in the Road Fund collections.
Therefore  financing   should  be   assured.
(Agreement 6.1. (i) protects against adverse
amendments in the Road Fund)
2. Long term  financing   the Government of The repayment of the principal represents less
Latvia may not maintain the Road Fund required  than 7 percent of LRA's budget. Therefore the
for an appropriate road maintenance and for repayment should be assured. (Agreement 6.1.(i)
financing the repayment of the loan.         protects against adverse amendments in the Road
Fund)
3. Quality of the work: work implemented may  Foreign consultants will train the newly created
not meet contract requirements.              MUs during the first two years on supervision and
quality control issues. These services will be
extended to the third year if deemed necessary.
Contracts will require contractors to use field
laboratories.
C. Project Sustainability
5.8.   Financial Sustainability. The increase in the excise taxes on fuel that went into effect in 1996,
combined with the resources available from loans from the World Bank and other international
financial institutions, will provide the resources that LRA needs to reduce the maintenance backlog,
provide the funds needed for future maintenance as estimated by the COWI/BCEOM report (see para.
2.28), meet the repayment requirements of the foreign loans, and provide a limited amount of resources
for high return investments in the road sub-sector, as shown in Annex L. A more refined assessment of
the financing needs of the road sub-sector is now under way, as described in paras. 2.28 and 4.15. The
established Road Fund secures the financing of the road maintenance and assure that the project
objectives will be met. The establishment of a Road Fund is a commitment from the Government of
Latvia to provide LRA with constant funding.
5.9.   Overall Project Sustainability. The improvements in LRA's operations and in the private
construction companies resulting from the technical services and training included in the project, as
well as from the utilization of competitive bidding procedures for periodic maintenance, are likely to
have a lasting impact as these methods and techniques prove their efficiency. Also, the effect on road
safety of this project will likely be sustained since it complements the ongoing institution building by
introducing a methodology to treat accident black spots cost efficiently.



Agreements & Recommendations                                                            29
VI. AGREEMENTS & RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1.   Agreements to be Reached During Negotiations.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the following points:
(i)    The Bank will have the right to suspend disbursements in the event that
the Road Fund Resolution is repealed or amended so as to adversely affect the
ability of LRA to effectively fulfill its functions of maintaining the road
network (see para 2.25).
(ii)    The Borrower will make available each year during the life of the
project the level of resources needed to finance its respective share of project
activities (see para 4.13).
(iii)  In order to ensure adequate funding for the maintenance of its road
network, the Borrower shall cause LRA : (a) to carry out and review with the
Bank, by June 30, 1997, a study of the financing needs for such maintenance,
including possible funding sources and collection mechanisms; and (b) by
December 31, 1997, to take, based on the recommendations of said study and
the review thereof with the Bank, such measures agreed with the Bank as shall
be required to implement said recommendations (see para 4.15).
(iv)   The Borrower shall maintain the existence of the PIU under 'a Project
Manager with suitable qualifications and experience, and with such staff and
facilities as may be required for the PIU to perform its functions under the
Project (see para. 4.18).
(v)    The Borrower shall cause LRA (a) to prepare by November 1 of each
year and to furnish to the Bank, a draft annual work program for works to be
carried out under the project during the following calendar year, including the
financing plan; (b) to obtain the Bank concurrence to such annual work
programs and financing plans prior to the start of the implementation thereof;
and (c) to include in said financing plan the level of funding under the project
required to be met from LRA's resources and a projection as to its capacity to
secure such funding (see para. 4. 18.).
(vi)   By November 1 of each year during the execution of the project, LRA
will report to the Bank the results of its economic evaluation of its proposed
road maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the following calendar year
and of road projects included in the Public Investment Program (PIP) of the
Borrower (see para. 4.20.).
(vii)  LRA will only undertake projects with a positive Net Present Value
based on an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent, and will give priority to



Agreements & Recommendations                                                            30
investments with the highest ratios of NPV to investment costs (see para.
4.20.).
(viii) LRA will: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to IBRD, the carrying out of the project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof; (b) prepare, by October 30, 1998, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities regarding the progress achieved in carrying out of the
project to date and setting out measures recommended to ensure the
achievement of the project objectives during the remainder of the project
implementation period, and (c) review with IBRD, by December 31, 1998, the
progress made in the implementation of the project; and will take all necessary
measures to execute the actions identified and agreed upon with IBRD during
such review (see para. 4.35).
6.2.   Other Conditions. Conditions of effectiveness will be limited to the standard conditions.
6.3.   Recommendation. Subject to the above, the proposed Highway Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$ 20 million at the standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency
loans with a maturity of 17 years including a five year grace period. The Borrower would be the
Republic of Latvia.



LATVIAN ROAD ADMINISTRATION
Organizational Chart
Director General
ITechnical| -:F      a  2: 
Director
Tecnicaln            Legal                                                  Foreign Relations   Administrative
Advisor            Advisor                                                                        Division  Division
Producton  XRoad maintenance   Technical   Mechanics    Project Implementation                  | 
LDivision   L       Division       Division      Division         Division
26                                         26
1 District Stte Road      Agreement       i Road Maintenance Enterprse
Managemet Unit



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 1
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
MMD    Knuft..  LRA               EU        Swed ::  Tot, al-
Phae        rae
______Fiiland
Road Periodic               g106         9.0         7.4               =27.0
1. Civil Works                10.6        9.0        7.1                             26.7
2. PIU costs                                         0.3                               0.3
Bridge 3Repairs               2.1        2.6         3.6     3.4    ___ :12.3
1. Gauja, Memele       I          I                  3.4      3.4                      6.8
2. Other Bridges               2.7        2.6        0.2                               5.5
Ro0lbad 0Safe ty0070  t0000-00|  ;02.100 ;    |0. 0  15      2                         6.0
Improvements.             _____ -      ____     __:___     _______
1. Black Spot                  2.1                   0.4                              2.5
Improvements       =
2. Bauska and lecava                                 1.1      2.4                      3.5
Region                  _
La orat-ory                                                                          0.5
Eqipment
rainteanc   n
G    el: utiO da0                         0.2I                              05         07
B.Qaityn1 Conro                0.J02B.
1. Quainety Con :trol  i      E-i 0 .2it 0.;t                                         ELEt:S EEE ;fXi;X: :E;E:i:: : :  EE:i:2 : ::0.4S   ; : X t:ti 0
Supervision       ,        ,.       __.     . __
2. Review of Design                                                          0.1       0.1
Standard
3. Training of                                                              0.1        0.1
Contractors
4. Road Safety Training                                                     0.1        0.1
Total:w w                    16.5        11.        12.6     .$:            0.1      47.2
Contingencies                 3.5        3.4         2.8 _                            9.7
Total                        20.0        15.0      15.4       .8       0    T7       56.9
Without VAT



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 17
LATVIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Background Information. The Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM
III) was used for most of the analysis. The HDM Model, created by the World Bank, has
been used all over the world to perform economic analysis on road maintenance and
design. This model requires as inputs the condition of the road (roughness, cracking,
potholing, ravelling, geometric parameters, history of the pavement), the level of traffic
and its estimated growth (broken down into five categories of vehicles), the cost of
vehicle maintenance, the cost of passenger time and cargo holding in case of congestion,
the depreciation of vehicles, and five different maintenance strategies and their impact on
road surface distress. The model calculates the road deterioration and the evolution of the
road roughness under traffic assumptions, and estimates the vehicle operating costs under
the various maintenance strategies. These vehicle operating costs are added to the Road
Agency Maintenance costs to assess the total economic cost for society of each strategy.
The model then compares the benefits of each strategy with a base strategy, usually a
simple routine maintenance, and determines the NPV and IRR for the various strategies
compared to the base strategy. This calculation leads to a prioritization of sections and
strategies. The discount rate selected to calculate the NPV of the project was 12 percent
and the period of analysis 20 years. The economic analysis was performed by various
consultants using various methodologies. A different approach based on the assessment
of the project by corridor could have been used, but the bridge economic analysis, based
on World Bank methodology, showed significantly higher IRR and NPV than other
components. Therefore, interpretation of the aggregated savings and costs by corridor
would have brought no real additional information.
2.    Highway Periodic Maintenance.  The analysis of the Highway Periodic
Maintenance component was performed with the HDM III (version 1995). Sample input
data is given in Page 6 to 10 of this Annex. The analysis was performed on the full Main
Road Network with already existing pavement data (geometry, surface and base
characteristics, strength, pavement condition, and history of pavement) collected during
annual LRA pavement surveys (see Para. 2.30.) and with new roughness measurements
performed by the Danish Road Directorate, which is assisting in setting up a Pavement
Management System. The calibration of the HDM model was influenced by a study
comparing the HDM pavement deterioration model to actual deterioration of the road
network in Ukraine, where the actual deterioration of various types of pavement has been
monitored for 25 years. Some conclusions can be drawn from Ukraine since the freezing
climate, the FSU detail design, and the quality of construction and materials are
considered similar with Latvia. Regarding freezing, the study found that deterioration
was significantly understated by the HDM model in case of weak pavements and
insignificantly overstated for strong pavements. Since Latvian pavements were assessed
as fairly strong (SNC>3), no correction was made for this factor. Based on the study in



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 17
Ukraine, the ravelling, potholing and cracking factors were chosen equal to one. Traffic
volumes were based upon some existing traffing counts. Vehicle characteristics were
provided by LRA and the Danish Road Directorate. Unit costs for construction and
maintenance were based on prices of previous years with a reduction of 20 percent to
reflect the likely effect of better competition (unit prices are currently equivalent to two
times those of neighbouring countries). Five maintenance strategies were defined taking
into account the Latvian road network characteristics: (i) routine maintenance and
patching; (ii) patching and 12 mm surface dressing when surface deterioration exceeds 20
percent; (iii) 12 mm surface dressing on a levelling layer, followed by surface dressing
when surface deterioration exceeds 20 percent ; (iv) 4 cm overlay when roughness
exceeds 3 (IRI); and (v) 4 cm overlay when roughness exceeds 3.5 (IRI) plus/or 12 mm
surface dressing when surface deterioration exceeds 20 percent.
3.     Most of the time, the analysis selected the strategies (ii) or (iii) with IRRs
between 21 percent and 91.2 percent, giving an average weighted IRR of 34.9 percent
and an NPV of US$ 85.5 million for the US$ 27.0 million maintenance program included
in the project (see Table 2 Page 11-16 for the results). This result conforms with good
engineering knowledge, since traffic is limited and pavement strength is good, which
means that potential savings would come mainly from improvement in the roughness (i.e.
levelling) and prevention of further deterioration (i.e. surface dressing). The current
prioritization from the HDM model will be used mainly for the first year of the project.
Afterwards, the Belman pavement management system introduced by the Danish Road
Directorate is expected to be fully operational and provide more refined economic
analysis since its calibration to Latvian conditions took one full year.
4.    Sensitivity Analysis. Given the high levels of IRR and NPV, and the annual
review of the selected section and maintenance strategies that will be performed with the
Belman system, the sensitivity analysis has been performed on three representative road
sections A13012, Al km 0-4.5 and km 12-15. The impact of traffic growth and the cost
of periodic maintenance on the results of the economic analysis has been assessed in the
following situations: low traffic growth of 2 percent per year instead of 4 percent for the
base case and higher costs of twenty percent compared to the base case. Table 1
summarizes the effects on the three selected road sections in the worst case scenario
(higher costs and low traffic growth). Extrapolation of these results for the entire
repaving prograrn would decrease the IRR from 34.9 to a still acceptable 28 percent and
the NPV from US$ 85.5 million to US$ 55 million. Given that the IRR of most road
sections evaluated is well above 20 percent (see Table 2 Page 11-16), sensitivity of
results with respect to the discount rate was not undertaken.



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 17
Table 1: Sensitivity Analysis on Representative Sections
Repair           Base Case          Traffic Growth 2% and
Costs       Tratfic Growth 40/0     Maintenance Cost + 20
US$                                       percent
NPV 12 percent   IRR    NPV 12 percent   IRR
US$        ___           US$
A13031         400,000        800,000       30.4         510,000       23.7
Al km 0-4.5     49,000        370,000       35.1         240,000       28.5
Al km 12-15     34,000         50,000       19.9          10,000       13.9
5.    Bridges. Twenty bridges were selected among the 50 considered in critical
condition, for detailed investigations.  Repair and reconstruction strategies were
compared to the do nothing situation. The remaining life and the decrease in bearing
capacity of these bridges have been assessed through a survey. This has been used to
estimate the date(s) when part of the traffic such as heavy vehicles or the total traffic
should be diverted to alternative routes as weight restrictions start being applied for safety
reasons if no repair is carried out. The diverted traffic would have to use longer
alternative routes in often worse road conditions than the initial route. That would result
in additional vehicle operating costs. The alternative routes have been determined with
the assistance of LRA and the vehicle operating costs per kilometer have been estimated
with HDM III. The savings for the repair and reconstruction strategies come from the
absence of diversion while the additional costs come from the cost of repair or
reconstruction.
6.    It was assumed that all traffic subject to load restriction would divert to the
alternative route. Although traffic that would actually divert would be somewhat less
because of the increased cost of the travel over the longer route, no data were available
for estimating either the traffic reduction (i.e. the cost elasticity of trips), or the economic
cost of the loss of economic activity resulting from the reduction. Given the very high
levels of IRR and NPV and the cost of getting such data, no such refinements were
carried out. Table 3 (Page 17) puts the diversion costs in perspective by showing the
percentage increase in trip costs associated with diversion, bearing in mind that the
proportionate increase in the cost of a trip is in relation to the entire length of the
traveler's journey rather than in relation to the percentage increase in the trip costs
associated with the diversion. The results are given in this Annex on page 17. A
sensitivity analysis on traffic growth (2 and 4 percent) and cost of construction (100 and
120 percent ) was performed and showed that in the case of low traffic growth and high
cost of repair or reconstruction, the Net Present Value would decrease from US$ 525
million to US$ 432 million. The fifteen bridges with the highest NPV and IRR have been
selected to be financed under the project, but the sequence of the repair will be made on
the basis of when load reductions will be required.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 17
7.    Road Safety. The benefits achieved through the road safety component are
assessed in five steps:
(i) compare the accident data for an accident black spot to the data obtained for a
similar road segment (ie crossing, exit lane, etc);
(ii) estimate the future accident rate by considering traffic growth and other
parameters.
(iii) predict the rate of accident to be achieved.
(iv) decide the specific activities necessary to remedy to the accident black spots
and determine the impact of each activity based on experience and on existing
Finnish table showing coefficient of reduction in accidents in specific situation.
(v) determine the cost-optimal activity.
8.    The adopted "value of statistical life" has been estimated at US$ 240,000, the
equivalent of one twentieth of the American one. This value is based on the DEC note
No7, April 1996, that stated that the value of a statistical life in the United States was in
the range of US$ 1.2 to 10.7 million. The value selected for Latvia represents an estimate
based on the difference of income in the two countries. The average cost of injury has
been assessed at US$ 12,000 per accident with injured.
9.    The Finnish coefficients of accident reduction associated with selected safety
measures have been applied since no five year series of data were available in Latvia.
These coefficients come from the 1995 "Publication #65 from Finnish Road
Administration: Assessment of Traffic Safety Impacts using Coefficients". Following
are some of the coefficients of reduction in accident used to perform the analysis. A
coefficient of 0.6 means that the accidents will be reduced by 40 percent.  The
coefficients indicate reduction of accidents causing injuries. In some cases, the reduction
rate of accidents causing fatalities will be greater (ref. speed limits in urban areas).
Pedestrian/bicycle route parallel to road/street    0.7
Pedestrian crossing                                 0.9
Road illumination (lights)                          0.9
Acceleration lane in intersection                   0.9
Speed limit 100 km/h to 80 km/h                     0.7
Speed limit 60 km/h to 50 km/h                      0.91 (0.60 for fatalities)
Road Marking                                        0.9
Stop sign                                           0.85-0.95
Curb Indicator                                      0.8
Refuge on pedestrian crossing                       0.8
Pedestrian tunnel                                   0.6



ANNEX-C
Page 5 of 17
10.   The US$ 6.0 million program included under the project is expected to reduce the
number of fatalities by 8 per year and the number of accidents with injuries by 49 per
year. The expected annual benefits were evaluated at US$ 2.5 million after 1999 while
the costs were spread over three years with US$ 1.0 million the first year, US$ 4.0
million the second year and US$ 1.1 million the third year. The expected NPV would be
US$ 10.2 million and the IRR 65 percent. A sensitivity analysis with a statistical cost of
fatalities and of injury decreased by 20 percent and an annual reduction of only 6
fatalities and 39 accidents with injuries would still give an NPV of US$ 4.8 million and
an IRR of 34 percent.



ANNEXC
Page 6 of 17
Examiple of Input Data for the Periodic Maintenance Evaluation
ROAD CHARACTERISTICS
=== =,== = === = === = === =
Description      Latvia prioritation
Road Class (Paved/Unpaved) P
GEOMETRY
Road Length (km)            4.7       Road Width (m)                 8.0
One Shoulder Width (m)      3.0       Effective Number of Lanes
Rise & Fall (m/km)         20.0       Curvature (deg/km)             0.0
Superelevation (')
ENVIRONMENT
Altitude (m)                 50       Rainfall (m/month)          0.0500
SURFACE          Surface Type   2
Thickness: New Surfacing Layers (mm)  40 Old Surfacing Layers (mm) 140
BASE/SUBGRADE   Base Type       1                        Subgrade CBRCl) 14
If Cement Stabilized Base: Thickness of Base Layers (mm)                0
Resilient Modulus of Soil Cement (GPa)    0
STRENGTH   Structural Number 4.50   Benkelman Beam Deflection (mm)
CONDITION  Roughness (IRI)    3.1                Construction Fault Code 0
Area All Cracks (%)  15.0  Wide Cracks (x)  10.0  Potholes (C)  0.000
Ravelled (%)   0.0 Rut Depth (mm)   0 Rut Depth St. Deviation (mm)   0
HISTORY    Surfacing Age (y)  8 Construction Age (y) 30
For Old Surfacing Layers, Previous Area of Wide Cracks (%)  0
DETERIORATION FACTORS                         Roughness-age Term       1.00
Cracking Initiation    1.00                 Cracking Progression    1.00
Ravelling Initiation   1.00                 Rut Depth Progression   1.00
Pothole Progression    1.00                 Roughness Progression   1.00
TRAFFIC
Light Medium Heavy Articulated
Car Pickup  Bus Truck Truck  Truck   Truck
Average Daily Traffic    1991   221    88   295   206        88     59
Traffic Growth (%)         4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    4.0    4.0
Change Traffic Growth in Year
New Traffic Growth C%)       .
CONGESTION
Include Congestion Effects (YIN) N
Road Type
Road Use
Roadside Friction                   1.00



ANNEX-C
Page 7 of 17
Example of Input Data for the Periodic Maintenance Evaluation
REQUIRED VEHICLE CHARACTERISTICS
Description       Required Data for Latvia
Light Medium  Heavy Artie.
BASIC CHARACTERISTCS           Car Pickup    Bus  Truck  Truck  Truck  Truck
Gross Vehicle Weight (t)  1.200  1.800 10.900  5.600 11.300 20.800 27.000
ESAl Factor per Veh.(E4)  0.000  0.010  0.500  0.100  1.000  3.000  5.000
Number of Axles                 2       2      2       2       2      3       S
Number of Tires                 4       4      6       6       6     10    1i
Number of Passengers         2.00   2.00  50.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
VEHICLE UTILIZATION DATA
Service Life (yr)            10.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Hours Driven per Year         450   1300   2000   1300   2100   2000   1900
Km Driven per Year          25000  30000  80000  75000  65000  67500  80000
Depreciation Code               2       2      2       2       2      2       2
Utilization Code                1       3      3       3       3      3       3
Annual Interest Rate (e)  15.00  15.00  1S.00  15.00  15.00  15.00  15.00
ECONOMIC UNIT COSTS
New Vehicle Price (C)        8000  10000  55000  20000  30000  60000  80000
New Tire Price (C)           60.0   60.0  275.0  275.0  275.0  275.0  375.0
Maintenance Labor (C/hr)   2.20   2.20   2.20   2.20   2.20   2.20   2.20
Crew Cost (C/crew-hr)        0.00   0.00   1.80   1.80   1.80   1.80   1.80
Passenger Time (C/pa-hr)   0.80   0.80   0.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Cargo Time (C/veh-hr)        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20
Gas/Petrol Price (C/lt)         0.25
Diesel Price (C/it)             0.22
Lubricants Price (C/lt)         1.30
Note: C is the input currency defined in the Analysis Control Data



ANEX-C
Page 8 of 17
Example of Input Data for the Periodic NMaintenance Evaluation
OPERATIONS UNIT COSTS
Description      Operation Costs for Latvia
Financial Economic
Operation                                               Unit Cost Unit Cost
Grading (Currency per km of road graded)                   100.0       85.0
Spot Regraveling (Currency per cu m)                       10.00       8.50
Gravel Resurfacing (Currency per cu m)                     20.00      17.0.0
Unpaved Routine Maintenance (Currency per km per yr)         500        42S
Patching (Currency per sq m)                               10.00       8.50
Resealing (Currency per sq m)                               1.75       1.50
Overlay (Currency per sq m)                                 8.00       7.00
Reconstruction (Currency per sq m)                         29.00      25.00
Paved Routine Maintenance (Currency per km per yr)          1500       1275
Construction (Thousands currency per km)                  1000.0      850.0
Note: The input currency is defined in the Analysis Control Data



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 17
Exanmple of Input Data for the Periodic Magintensance Evsaluatioll
DEFINITION OF STRATEGIES
Description     Maintenance in Latvia
STRATEGY 1:        Routine Maintenance
Start in Year:    1997 Policy: Routine Maintenace & Patching    (Pav:RM PA )
(          1
( 
STRATEGY 2:         12mm Surface Dressing (20*)
Start in Year:    1997 Policy: Surface Dressing(20t), Patching  (Pav:SURF201
()
(         3
()
STRATEGY 3:        Levelling layer+SD
Start in Year:    1997 Policy: Levelling Layer                    (Pav:LEVEL )
1998         Surface Dressing 12 mm annual    (Pav:SURF12)
1999         Surface Dressing(20t), Patching  (Pav:SURF20)
( 
STRATEGY 4:        4cm Overlay for IRI>3
Start in Year:    1997 Policy: Overlay(4cm,3.OIRI), Patching    (Pav:OVER4 t
()
()
STRATEGY 5:        4cm Overlay for IAI>3.5+SD
Start in Year:    1997 Policy: Overlay(4cm,3.5IR1), Patching+SD (Pav:OVER4S)
()
()



ANNEX C
Page 10 of 17
Example of Result for the Periodic Maintenance Evaluatoio
HDM Manager - Project Summary
..... ..........._,,....
Project Name: Test Section
Run Name: Latvia
Run Date: 06/CA/M
Road Name: Latvia prioritation
Road Length: 4.7 ka
Currency: Million Dollars
WITHOUT PROJECT CASE                           WITH PROJECT CAST                      ECONOMIC COMPARISON
Routine Maintenance                            Levelling layer+SD
ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC                     ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC   DECREASE DECREASE ECONOMtC
YEAR     ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY      USER    TOTAL      ADT OPER  rRi  AGENCY        USER    TOTAL     AGSNCY      USER      NET
COSTS    COSTS    COSTS                        COSTS    COSTS    COSTS       COSTS    COSTS BENEFITS
1997    2948       3.3      0.01     0.94      0.9S    2948 OVER  2.1      0.14      2.94     1.0B 1    -0.13      0.00    -0.13
1998    3065       3.S      0.01     0.99      0.99 | 3065 RESE  2.2       0.06      0.96     1.02 |   -0.06       0.02    -0.03
1999 I 318S        3.7      0.01     1.03      1.04 1  3188        2.2     0.01      1.00     1.01 I    0.00       0.03     0.03
2000 1 3316        3.8      0.01     1.08      1.09    3316        2.3     0.01      1.04     1.05        0.00     0.04     0.01
2001    3448       4.0      0.01     1.14      1.14    3448        2.3     0.01      1.08     1.09 t    0.00       0.05     0.0S
2002    35S86      4.2      0.01     1.19      1.20    35S86       2.4     0.01      1.13     1.13 j    0.00       0.07     0.07
2003 1 3730        4.3      0.01     1.25      1.25 1 3730         2.4     0.01      1.17     1.18 I    0.00       0.08     0.08
2004    3879       4.5      0.01     1.31      1.31 I 3879         2.5     0.01      1.22     1.23 I    0.00       0.09     0.09
2005 1 4034        4.6      0.01     1.37      1.37 I 4034         2.6     0.01      1.27     1.27       0.00      0.10     0.10
2006 i 4195        4.7      0.01     1.43      1.44    4195        2.6     0.01      1.32     1.33 I    0.00       0.11     0.11
2007 I 4363        4.9      0.01     1.50      1.Sl I 4363         2.7     0.01      1.37     1.30 I    0.00       0.13     0.13
2008 | 4538        5.0      0.01     1.57      l.S8 | 4538 RESE  2.7       0.06      1.43     1.49 |    -0.06      0.14     0.09
2009 I 4719        5.1      0.01     1.64      1.65     4719      2.8     0.01      1.49     1.49 I    0.00       0.16     0.16
2010 I 4908        5.3      0.01     1.72      1.73 I 4908         2.9     0.012    1.55      1.5j    0.00         0.17     0.18
2011 I 5104        5.4      0.01     1.80      1.81 I 5104         2.9     0.01      1.61     1.62 I    0.00       0.19     0.19
2012 f 5309        5.6      0.01     1.89      1.90     5309      3.0     0.01      1.68     1.68 I    0.00       0.21     0.21
2013     5521     5.7      0.01     1.98      1.99 I 5521         3.1     0.01      1.75     1.75       0.00     0.23     0.23
2014    5742       5.9      0.01     2.08      2.08    5742        3.2     0.01      1.82     1.83 I    0.00       0.25     0.25
2015     5972     6.0      0.01     2.18      2.18 I 5972         3.2     0.01      1.90     1.91 I    0.00       0.28     0.28
2016 I 6210        6.2      0.01     2.29      2.29 I 6210         3.3     0.01      1.99     1.99 I    0.00       0.30     0.30
Average            4.8                                             2.7
Total (undiscounted)        0.12    30.37    30.49                         0.36    27.70    28.06        -0.24     2.67     2.42
Total (at  12.0 O)          0.05    10.74    10.79                         0.25    10.05    10.29        -0.20     0.70     0.50
Project NPV at  12.0 t Discount Rate:   0.50
Project Internal Rate of Return (%) :  32.0



ANNEX C
Page 11 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic Maintenance
Length      Trafftc Mainte-  Cost  Accum          NPV
nance           Cost
Section From km To km  in km  IRI AADT Strategy  MUSD  MUSD  IRR   12%
a1_004     4.500 12.450  7.950  3.4  9934    3        0.32    0.32  91.2    4.3
a7_065    65.200 68.200  3.000  4.8  4520    3       0.132   0A52   81   1.
a6094     94.300 95.500  1.200  3.8  4764    3       0.046   0.498  76.3   0.3
a6057     56.800 58.500  1.700  3.8  4764    3       0.066   0.564  75.3   0.
a6077     76.800 78.450  1.650  3.7  4764    3       0.061   0.625  72.9   0.5
a3 003     3.250  7.800  4.550    4  3466    3       0.164   0.789  70.6   1.1
a6138    138.300 140.200  1.900  4.2  3747    3      0.069   0.858  66.8   0.4
a3 000     0.000  1.750  1.750  4.1  3466    3       0.077   0.935  61.2   0.44
a9022     22.100 24.750  2.650    4  3003    3       0.091   1.026  60.5   0.5
a6059     58.500 74.000  15.500    3  4764    2      0.186   1.212  58.6   1.6
a6116    116.250 118.750  2.500  3.9  3874    3      0.113   1.325  58.4   0.
a10035    35.000 37.000  2.000   2.8  6781    5      0.027   1.352   58   0.4
a9132    131.800 135.600  3.800  4.3  2948    3      0.144   1.496  57.5   0.7
a10062    62.500 65.250  2.750  3.7  3854    3       0.103   1.599  57.5   0.62
a6047     47.000 56.800  9.800  2.8  6748    5       0.121    1.72  55.1   1.72
a4 003     3.300  4.700  1.400  3.5  3806    3       0.054   1.774   55   0.32
a9001      1.000  3.750  2.750  4.8  3003    3       0.121   1.895  54.9   0.59
a6080     80.000 86.600  6.600  3.3  4764    3       0.251   2.146  54.8   1.59
a6089     89.500 90.600  1.100  3.1  4764    2       0.013   2.159  51.8   0.09
a9135    135.600 143.500  7.900  3.8  2948    3      0.277   2.436  51.8   1.35
a13133   132.800 134.738  1.938    6  2110    3       0.08   2.516  51.7   0.27
a6179    179.200 185.000  5.800   3.1  1306    2     0.063   2.579  50.4   0.42
a6091     90.600 94.300  3.700   2.8  4764    5      0.041    2.62  48.4   0.46
a10041    41.000 49.350  8.350  3.3  3854    3        0.29    2.91  47.8   1.49
a9118    117.900 121.900  4.000  4.7  2948    3        0.2    3.11  47.4   0.78
a10053    52.700 53.750  1.050  3.4  3854    3       0.038   3.148  47.2   0.19
a7025    24.800 26.200  1.400  2.9  4373    2        0.017   3.165   47   0.11
a6087     86.600 89.500  2.900  2.8  4764    5       0.033   3.198  46.6   0.36
a9017     17.000 19.200  2.200  3.9  3003    3       0.099   3.297  46.5    0.4
a9107    107.500 115.000  7.500    4  2948    3      0.337   3.634  46.2   1.31
a6095     95.500 114.800 19.300   3.1  3874    2     0.209   3.843  45.6   1.26
a9097     96.700 105.100  8.400   4.3  2948    3      0.42   4.263  45.4   1.51
a2 075    75.000 77.500  2.500  2.9  4083    2       0.028   4.291  44.9   0.17
a2_079    78.650 83.800  5.150  3.9  2117    3       0.189    4.48  44.8   0.68
a3 032    32.000 33.750  1.750  4.3  1930    3       0.064   4.544  44.5   0.22
a9030     30.150 41.000 10.850  3.6  3421    3       0.446    4.99  44.5   1.85
a2 039    39.100 52.700 13.600  2.6  5373    5       0.155   5.145  44.3   1.68
a1 0028    27.900 32.300  4.400  25  6781    5       0.059   5.204  44.1   0.64
a10032    32.300 35.000  2.700  2.1  6781    5       0.036    5.24  44.1   0.64
a5 002     2.250  7.100  4.850  3.1  4541    2       0.066   5.306  43.7   0.34
a6033     32.900 38.600  5.700  2.9  9265    2       0.128   5.434  43.6    0.7
a8030     29.600 31.800  2.200  3.6  6936    3       0.187   5.621  43.3   0.74
a7_042    42.500 45.000  2.500  2.8  4373    5       0.032   5.653  42.8   0.28



ANNEX C
Page 12 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic Maintenance
Length       Traffic Mainte-  Cost  Accum             IY-
nance             Cost
Section From km To km   in km   IRI  AADT Strategy  MUSD   MUSD   IRR   12%
a3 002      1.750   3.250   1.500   2.9  3466    2        0.054    5.707  42.3   0.09.
a8012     12.000  14.600   2.600   3.5  7182    3         0.221    5.928  42.3   0.87
a13012    11.800  30.800  19.000   5.7  2055    3          0.76    6.688  40.8   2.48
a7_032    32.500  40.200   7.700   2.7  4373    2         0.092      6.78  40.5   0.54
a6185    185.000 187.200   2.200   5.5  1306    3         0.086    6.866  39.8   0.25
a6074     74.000  76.800   2.800   2.6  4764    5         0.034       6.9  39.7   3.28
a2 052    52.700  56.800   4.100   2.8  4062    5          0.05      6.95  39.6   0.39
a9075     75.000  95.500  20.500   3.6  2948    3         0.923    7.873  38.6   2.07
a6129    129.000 138.300   9.300   3.5  3747    2           0.1    7.973  38.5   0.44
a2 060    60.000  68.250   8.250   2.7  4083    5         0.096    8.069  38.4   0.73
a6174    173.800 179.200   5.400      5  1306    3         0.21    8.279  38.3   0.57
a9155    155.000 158.100   3.100   3.4  2948    3         0.164    8.443  37.6   0.53
a6140    140.200 144.000   3.800   3.3  3747    3         0.156    8.599  37.4   0.52
a10112   111.700 114.200   2.500   3.5  1916    3         0.113    8.712  37.1   0.34
a10021    21.000  27.900   6.900   2.3  6781    5         0.093    8.805  36.7i   0.74
a9005       5.200  17.000  11.800   3.1  3003    2        0.124    8.929  36.6   0.49
a1 077    77.000  93.400  16.400   4.1  1625    3         0.656    9.585  36.3   1.66
a2_096    96.300  98.300   2.000   4.2  1683    3         0.088    9.673  35.6   0.19
a6119    118.750 121.250   2.500   3.2  3874    3          0.11    9.783  35.5   0.33
a1 045    45.250  55.000   9.750   3.1  2221    2         0.116    9.899  35.3   0.42
a8019     19.200  21.400   2.200   3.3  8318    3          0.22   10.119  35.2   0.65
a9019     19.200  22.100   2.900   2.9  3003    2          0.03   10.149  35.2   0.11
a10054    53.750  62.500   8.750   2.7  3854    5           0.1   10.249  35.2   0.63
al 000     0.000   4.500   4.500   2.1  9934    2         0.049   10.298  35.1   0.37
a6268    268.200 275.000   6.800   5.1  1355    3         0.238   10.536  34.9   0.56
a7 081    81.000  85.000   4.000   3.3  2827    3         0.168   10.704  34.3   0.47
a4_015    14.600  20.000   5.400   3.2  2803    3         0.221   10.925  34.2   0.63
a2 084    83.800  96.300  12.500   3.2  2117    2         0.139   11.064  34.1   1.04
a9O25     24.750  30.150   5.400      3  3421    2        0.073   11.137  33.6   0.25
a6121    121.250 122.500   1.250   4.1  3874    3          0.12   11.257  33.1   0.26
a13046    45.800  47.600   1.800   4.1  2055    3         0.072   11.329  33.1   0.16
a9050     50.250  75.000  24.750   3.6  2156    3         1.066   12.395  32.7   2.54
a3 055    55.000  67.000  12.000   3.5  1930    3          0.48   12.875  32.1   1.11
a12065    65.000  76.800  11.800   3.6  1778    3         0.472   13.347  31.7   1.05
a2_057    56.800  58.200   1.400   2.5  4062    5         0.017   13.364  31.4   0.08
a3_049    48.550  55.000   6.450   3.3  1930    3         0.327   13.691  31.3   0.53
a10068    67.900  69.200   1.300   3.2  3435    3         0.065   13.756  31.3   0.16
a9143    143.500 148.200   4.700   3.1  2948    2         0.188   13.944  30.7   0.15
a3_089    88.700  91.500   2.800   5.6  1119    2         0.029   13.973  30.5   0.08
a6261    261.100 268.200   7.100   3.9  1355    3         0.249   14.222  30.5   0.46
a12092    92.150 100.800   8.650   3.6  1797    3         0.348    14.57  30.5   0.71
a13053    53.223  59.350   6.127    4   1852    3         0.152   14.722  30.5   0.48
a6115    114.800 116.250   1.450   2.6  3874    2         0.018    14.74  30.4   0.07



ANINEX C
Page 13 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic Maintenance
Length      Traffic Mainte-  Cost  Accum         NPV
nance           Cost
Section From km To km   in km  IRI AADT Strategy  MUSD   MUSD  IRR   12"/.
al 095    95.250 100.500  5.250  3.9  1625    3      0.239  14.979  30.3  0.45
a8032     31.800 41.000  9.200  2.5  6936    5       0.166  15.145  30.2  0.71
a2 058    58.200 60.000  1.800  2.5  4062    5       0.022  15.167  29.9  0.09
a6187    187.200 193.000  5.800  3.6  1306    3      0.217  15.384  29.9  0.42
a13031    30.800 41.000  10.200  3.8  2055    3      0.408  15.792  29.9  0.78
a12106   106.000 108.450  2.450    5  1101    3      0.096  15.888  29.7  0.17
a10169   168.750 180.000 11.250  3.4  2020    3      0.474  16.362  29.6  0.96
a1_018    18.100 25.850  7.750  2.5  4584    5       0.092  16.454  29.1   0.36
a11005    5.000 16.100  11.100  3.5  2027    3       0.444  16.898  28.9  0.21
a15001     1.100  2.550  1.450  2.1  472    3        0.056  16.954  28.9  0.81
a3_034    33.750 35.600  1.850  3.2  1930    3       0.064  17.018  28.8  0.13
al_066    66.250 77.000 10.750  4.1  1625    3       0.656  17.674 28.6  0.86
a6230    229.900 232.750  2.850  4.2  794    3       0.098  17.772  28.1   0.15
a9122    121.900 131.800  9.900  3.4  2948    3      0.594  18.366   28   1.07
a8069    68.900 74.000  5.100  3.2  2000    3        0.204   18.57  27.6  0.38
a12028    27.500 34.550  7.050  4.6  1388    3       0.268  18.838  27.4   0.4
a8015     14.600 19.200  4.600  2.5  8318    2       0.117  18.955 27.3  0.35
a13071    71.100 88.345 17.245  4.1  1078    3       0.608  19.563  27.3  0.89
a6157    157.000 158.200   1.200  3.6  1971    3     0.047   19.61  27.1   0.08
a10085    85.500 97.900 12.400  2.5  3455    2       0.149  19.759 26.8  0.43
a13100   100.150 119.400 19.250  3.3  2110    3      0.772  20.531  26.7   1.28
a10049    49.350 52.700  3.350  2.4  3854    2       0.039   20.57  26.6  0.12
a12004    4.000  17.000  13.000  4.3  1388    3       0.52   21.09  26.5  0.72
a7_068    68.200 81.000  12.800  2.7  2827    5      0.157  21.247  26.4  0.54
a3_008    7.800 20.300  12.500  2.91 2257    2       0.152  21.399   26    0.3
a6158    158.200 173.800  15.600  3.4  1971    3     0.561   21.96  25.9  0.86
a13092    91.750 94.500  2.750  3.9  1078    3       0.114  22.074  25.8  0.15
a12102   102.500 106.000  3.500  3.9  1101    3       0.14  22.214  25.7  0.19
a10065    65.250 67.900  2.650  2.4  3854    2       0.036   22.25  25.5   0.1
a9004      3.750  5.200  1.450  2.6  3003    2        0.02   22.27   25   0.04
a9105    105.100 107.500  2.400  2.7  2948    5      0.032  22.302   25   0.09
a13122   122.350 132.800 10.450  3.2  2110    3      0.228   22.53   25   0.33
a12018    18.000 27.500  9.500    4  1388    3       0.392  22.922  24.9  0.49
a12111   110.600 124.000  13.400  3.8  1101    3    0.536  23.458  24.8  0.67
a12132   132.500 138.200  5.700  5.7  782    3       0.228  23.686  24.6  0.28
a7 026   26.200 32.500  6.300  2.1  4373    2        0.076  23.762  24.5  0.23
a1 029    29.400 37.316  7.916  2.3  4584    2       0.095  23.857  24.4  0.25
a10138   138.200 140.700  2.500  3.4  1585    3      0.103   23.96  24.2  0.13
a4 000    0.000  3.300  3.300  2.2  3806    2        0.039  23.999  24.1   0.1
a13097    97.100 98.400  1.300  3.7  1078    3       0.052  24.051   24   0.06
a12148   147.850 152.200  4.350  5.4  782    3       0.176  24.227  23.8  0.19
a7 019   19.200 20.200  1.000  2.4  437    2         0.018  24.245  23.6  0.04
a8041    41.000 66.900 25.900  3.1  2000    3         0.76  25.005  23.5  0.97



ANNEX C
Page 14 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic Maintenance
Length       Traffic  Mainte-  Cost  Accum              NPV
nance             Cost
Section From km To km   In km   IRI  AADT  Strategy  MUSD   MUSD   IRR   12%
a5_021     20.800  22.750   1.950   3.1   1654      3       0.074   25.079  23.3    0.09
a3 027    26.800  32.000   5.200      3= 1930       3       0.208   25.287  23.1    0.25
a1015      15250  16.800   1.550   2.2  4584                0.017   25.304    23    0.04
a10154    153.550 161.700   8.150   2.9  2020       2       0.078   25.382  22.8    0.11
a13069    69.200  71.100   1.900   3.3  1852        3       0.114   25.496    22    0.12
7 040    40.200  42.500   2.300       2   4373      2       0.028   25.524  21.7    0.06
a13119   119.400 122.350   2.950      3   2110      3       0.114   25.638  21.7    0.12
a5 000      0.000   2.250   2.250   2.1  4541       2       0.029   25.667  21.6    0.06
a5 038    37.800  40.000   2.200   3.1   3665       3       0.176   25.843  21.5    0.18
a7_008      8.000  19.200  11.200   1.7  9834       3       0.369   26.212  21.5    0.18
a6018      18.000  32.900  14.900     2   9803      2       0.335   26.547  21.5    0.73
a6251     251.200 256.300   5.100   3.4   1355      3       0.204   26.751  21.5      0.2
a8010      10.000  12.000   2.000   2.3   7182    2         0.051   26.802  21.5    0.09
a9095      95.500  96.700   1.200   2.5  2948       2       0.016   26.818  21.5    0.02
_10123   123.250 125.700   2.450   3.3   1585    3          0.113   26.931  21.1      0.1
a10180   180.000 184.000   4.000      3   2020      3       0.184   27.115  21.1    0.18
a2 100   100.000 109.500   9.500   3.1   1683       3       0.427   27.542    21    0.41
87 048    48.000  65.200  17.200   2.1   4520    2          0.232- 27.774    21    0.45
a6256    256.300 261.100   4.800   2.9   1355       2        0.05   27.824  20.9    0.05
810141    140.700 150.700  10.000   3.2   1585      3        0.42   28.244  20.9    0.39
a6150    150.000 151.000   1.000   3.2  1971        3       0.041   28.285  20.7    0.04
a12108   108.450 110.600   2.150   3.4   1101       3       0.086   28.371  20.6    0.07
a13059    59.350  63.300   3.950   3.2   1852       3        0.16   28.531  20.6    0.14
a13145   144.985 150.150   5.165   3.7    936       3       0.204   28.735  20.6    0.16
a6122     122.500 129.000   6.500   2.5  3747       2       0.099   28.834  20.4    0.14
a9041      41.000  50.250   9.250   2.9  2156       2       0.138   28.972  20.3    0.14
a6038      38.600  47.000   8.400   1.8  6748       2       0.103   29.075  20.2    0.19
a12129   129.000 132.500   3.500      4    782      3        0.14   29.215  20.2      0.1
a12152   152.200 165.000  12.800      4    782      3       0.512   29.727  20.2    0.37
a8021      21.400  29.600   8.200   2.3  8318    2          0.246   29.973  20.1    0.37
89148     148.200 155.000   6.800   2.6  2948    2          0.102   30.075  20.1    0.12
a1 012     12.450  15.250   2.800   2.1  4584       2       0.034   30.109  19.9    0.05
a9159    159.100 163.800   4.700   2.41 2948        2       0.059   30.168  19.9    0.08
a2 013    13.000  39.100  26.100   1.7  11907    2          0.626   30.794  19.7    1.02
a2_098    98.300 100.000   1.700      3 1 1683      3       0.077   30.871  19.6    0.06
a12138   138.200 147.850   9.650   3.9   782        3       0.384   31.255  19.6   0.26
a3u040     39.700  48.550   8.850   2.5  1930    2          0.095    31.35  19.5   0.11
a12077    76.800  92.150  15.350   2.91 1797    2           0.086   31.436  19.5   0.08
a13088    88.345  91.750   3.405   3.3  1078        3       0.132   31.568  19.5    0.1
a3_069    68.500  71.600   3.100   2.8   1930       5       0.042    31.61    19    0.06
a10103   102.800 111.700   8.900   2.4   1916    2           0.12    31.73    19    0.14
a6236    236.500 240.000   3.500   3.41  794        3       0.136   31.866  18.9    0.09
a6193     193.000 201.600   8.600   2.7  1306       5       0.093   31.959  18.8   0.12



ANNEXC
Page 15 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic NIaintenance
Length  - Traffic  Mainte-  Cost  Accum               NPV
nance            Cost
Section From km To km   in km   IRI  AADT Strategy  MUSD   MUSD   IRR   12%
a14000      0.000   5.100  5.100   3.6   792    3         0.209   32.168  18.7   0.13
a11016    16.100  20.200  4.100   2.9  2027    2          0.049   32.217  18.5   0.04
a6225    224.550 229.900   5.350   3.2   794    3         0.191   32.408    18   0.11
a9115    115.000 117.900  2.900    3  2948    3           0.203   32.611  17.9   0.12
a6245    245.400 249.700  4.300   3.1  1355    3          0.172   32.783  17.6    0.1
al 093    93.400  95.250   1.850   2.9  1625    3         0.081   32.864  17.3   0.04
al 055    55.000  66.250  11.250   2.7  1625    5         0.134   32.998  17.2   0.13
a6288    288.100 290.750  2.650    4    849    3          0.104   33.102  17.2   0.05
a4_005      4.700  14.600  9.900   2.1  3175    2         0.116   33.218  17.1   0.11
a14010    10.300  13.500   3.200   3.2   792    3         0.112    33.33   17    0.05
a12044    43.963  65.000 21.037   2.8  1388    3           0.74    34.07    17       0
a8c67      66.900  68.900   2.000   2.5. 2000     2       0.027   34.097  16.9   0.02
a6250    249.700 251.200   1.500    31 1355       3        0.06   34.157  16.4   0.03
a10163   163.350 165.700   2.350   2.4  2020      2       0.029   34.186  16.2   0.02
a6233    232.750 236.500   3.750    3   794       3       0.133   34.319  16.1   0.05
a3_072    71.600  84.700  13.100   3.4  1119      3       0.524   34.843    16    0.19
a13041    41.000  45.800  4.800   2.8  2055       5       0.264   35.107  15.9   0.06
a7 045    45.000  48.000   3.000   1.9  4520      2       0.041   35.148  15.8   0.03
a14006      6.200   9.000   2.800   3.3   792    3        0.114   35.262  15.7   0.04
a13098    98.400 100.150   1.750    3  1078    3          0.068    35.33  15.7   0.07
a13151    151.250 153.000   1.750   4.2   936    3        0.072   35.402  15.5   0.02
a13154   154.000 157.700   3.700   3.2   936    3         0.148    35.55  15.5   0.05
aa13159   158.700 161.000   2.300   3.2   936    3        0.092   35.642  15.5   0.03
a3 036    35.600  39.700   4.100   2.3  1930    2         0.047   35.689  15.3   0.02
a10126   125.700 138.200  12.500   2.8  1585    3         0.537   36.226  15.3   0.18
a5 023    22.750  37.800  15.050   1.9T  4531     2       0.198   36.424  14.9   0.11
a2_068    68.250  75.000   6.750   1.87 4083    2          0.08   36.504  14.7   0.04
a14013    13.500  15.567   2.067    3    792    3          0.07   36.574  14.6   0.0
a12017    17.000  18.000   1.000    3   1388    3          0.04   36.614  14.5   0.01
a2 077    77.500  78.650   1.150   2.1  2117    2         0.014   36.628  14.4   0.01
a13094    94.500  97.100   2.600   2.9  1078    3         0.104   36.732  14.4   0.02
a10069    69.200  85.500  16.300    2  3435    2          0.159   36.891  14.3   0.06
a2_109   109.500 140.000  30.500   2.2  1683    2         0.384   37.275  14.1   0.11
a10114   114.200 123.250  9.050   2.8  1585    5          0.078   37.353  13.8   0.03
a13063    63.300  69.200   5.900   2.7  1852    2         0.071   37.424  13.6   0.01
a12034    34.550  43.963   9.413   2.9  1388    3          0.22   37.644  13.3   0.03
a13150   150.150 151.250   1.100    3    936    3         0.044   37.688  13.2      0
a12101    100.800 102.500   1.700   2.8  1101     3       0.068   37.756    13   0.01
a3 020    20.300  26.800   6.500   2.1  2085    2         0.074    37.83  12.7   0.01
a6202    201.600 206.600   5.000   3.6  1306    3         0.525   38.355  12.5   0.02
a13153   153.000 154.000   1.000   2.9   936    3          0.04   38.395  12.1      0
a6151     151.000 157.000  6.000   2.5  1971      2       0.086   38.481  11.5  -0.01
a10098    97.900 102.800   4.900    2   1916    2         0.068   38.549  11.5  -0.01



ANNEXC
Page 16 of 17
Table 2: Results of the Economic Analysis of the Road Periodic Maintenance
Length      Traffic Mainte-  Cost  Accum        NPV
nance           Cost
Section From km To km  In km  IRI AADT Strategy MUSD  MUSD  IRR   12%
a7_020    20.200 24.800  4.600  1.6  4373    2      0.057  38.606   11  -0.01
a13158   157.700 158.700  1.000  2.8   936    3      0.04  38.646  10.9     C
a13161   161.000 163.000  2.000  2.8  936    3       0.08  38.726  10.9  -0.01
a15003     3.550  6.988  3.438  3.6  472    3       0.136  38.862  10.8  -0.01
a6240    240.000 245.400  5.400  2.6  1355    2     0.066  38.928  10.8  -0.01
al 023    25.850 29.400  3.550  1.7  4584    2      0.042   38.97  10.3  -0.01
a10162   161.700 163.350  1.650  1.9  2020    2     0.017  38.987  10.2     0
a13002     2.000 11.800  9.800  3.5  476    3       0.392  39.379  10.1  -0.06
a14009     9.000 10.300  1.300  2.6   792    3      0.046  39.425  9.5  -0.01
a1O151   150.700 153.550  2.850    2  2020    2     0.034  39.459  8.8  -0.002
a3 085    84.700 88.700  4.000  2.3  1119    2      0.042  39.501  8.6  -0.02
a6275    275.000 288.100 13.100  2.8  849    3      0.459   39.96  8.6  -0.13
a1 037    37.316 45.250  7.934  1.8  2221    2      0.106  40.066  8.4  -0.06
a14005     5.100  6.200  1.100  2.6,  792    3      0.046  40.112  7.8  -0.02
a15000     0.000  1.100| 1.100  3.2  472    3       0.044  40.156  7.8  -0.01
a11030    30.000 31.800  1.800    4   368    3      0.063  40.-219  7.7  -0.02
a6291    290.750 306.600 15.850  2.7  849    3      0.532  40.751  7.5  -0.13
a10166   165.700 168.750  3.050    2  2020    2     0.041  40.792  7.3  -0.03
a11020    20.200 21.750  1.550    2  2027    2      0.018   40.81   6.6  -0.01
a3 067    67.000 68.500  1.500  1.9  1930    2       0.02   40.83  5.3  -0.02
a11045    45.000 53.000  8.000  3.4  368    3        0.28   41.11  5.2  -0.13
a3 091    91.500 96.000  4.500  2.7  672    3       0.157  41.267    5  -0.08
a6078     78.450 80.000  1.550  2.8  4764    3      0.064  41.331  4.2  -0.04
a1_017    16.800 18.100  1.300  1.5  4584    2      0.016  41.347  3.6  -0.002
a15002    2.550  3.550  1.000  2.7  472    3         0.04  41.387  3.3  -0.02
a2 148   147.800 180.000 32.200  2.6   588    3     1.481  42.868  2.2  -0.94
a2_140   140.000 147.800  7.800  2.4  588    2      0.103  42.971   1.3   -0.1
a11032    31.800 45.000 13.200  2.8  368    3       0.462  43.433  0.6  -0.31
a6207    206.600 224.550 17.950  2.3  1306    3     1.837   45.27  0.1  -1.36
a3 107   107.000 116.295  9.295  2.2  672    5      0.095  45.365    0  -0.18
a11022    21.750 30.000  8.250  2.7  368    3        0.29  45.655  -0.7  -0.21
a2 180   180.000 194.000 14.000  2.3  588    3      0.644  46.299  -1.2   -0.5
a3 096    96.000 107.000 11.000    2   672    2     0.116  46.415  -2.1  -0.14
a5_007     7.100 20.800 13.700  1.5  1899    3      0.548  46.963  -4.6  -0.49



,ik - I    I. .... .'.  J1"'Perceap-  Divuor o Not Pos Fnt   'Maienaneyle l             nerualRnb ofr
Prol           lation                 Trafic        iffiereac     Inc                  Year                 Cost             12%             Return
No   (code, same of the road, lk inW)     i       I uLea&W    ln IrI C. -                                US$000        -..f_fj $ . 
_ _*_-_,_._f, _    '______  ' Truck  Cars Trck  Cars Trfck Cars   Track   Cars  -TpUa   Repair Reconst Repair Recons. Repair| Recons.
1 A9 Riga-Liepaja, 95,7           630    870      60    60   -               4277   2286   6563               1500            45985           497%
2 A12. ekabpils-Ludza, 18.6       315    535      33    33      47     47    1176    773   1949        110    1950   13880    12588  212%    117%
3 A9, Riga-Liepaja 129,3          888   1512      56    56    186    186    5627   3709   9335    1400    3700  65676    64291  137%0/   288%0/
4 A 1, Riga-Ainazi, 12,6         3430   8820      27    27      84     84   10479  10431  20909    3900    3860 146417   147150  124%    613%
S A2, Riga-Veclaicene            1122  2278       30    30      79     79    3809   2993   6802               1030            48030           748%
(Pleskava), 76,3                                                                              _                                                      n
6 A2, Riga-Veclaicene             315    585      45    45      92     92    1604   1153   2757       650    1500   19186    18697  111%    211%
(Pleskava), 150,5
7 A7, Riga-Bauska, 64,0          1419   188       71    71    308    308   11400   5850   8744 -              3000           121523           651%
8 V1445, Tukuins-Kandava. 23      630   1470      33    33    206    206    2352   2125   4477        300    1600  31830    30958  196%    319%
9 A7 Riga-Bauska, 44,4           1260  3240       30    30      44     44    4277   4257   8534       400      870  60827    60564  228%   1109%0/
10 Al. Riga-Ainazi. 20,5          1512   3888      27    27      84     84    4619   4598   9217       552      685  65586   65590  206%    1520%
11 V20, Ogre-Viskali, 67,6         165    385       4      4     44     44       75     67    142      675      945    419       347  190/o    19%           z
12 A12. Jekapils-Ludza, 72.8       418    932      33    33      34     34    1561   1347   2908       345      900  20541    20206  153%    368%
131 AI. Riga-Ainazi. 3,7          4324  11826      19    19    172    172    9296   9842  19138        390      704 136849   136694  319%   3066%
14 A3, Incukalns-Valmicra. 26.7    4751  1425      24    24      58     58    1290   1498   2788       210      850   19801    19382  187%    373%
15 P89, Kekava- Skaistkalne, 55.6   201   18       42    42    470    470        95    331    426      534             2581            46%                  w
16 A4. Baftezers- Saulkalne, 14,  20161 3584       11    11   220    220    2509   1727   42361   350                 30057 ____ 179%0__o          _
17 A7, Riga- Bauska, 16,6         1624   3976       6     6      311    31    1103   1045   2147       320      600   15111    14968  138%    407%0/
18 PI 1, Koceni-Limbazi-Tuja, 50,8    330    770   60    60    316    316    2240   2024   4264        195      430  30396    30262  231%    1122%
19 P65,Tilti-Krauja, 13,7          209    301      19    19   271    271       449    250    700       829             4279            48%   _              O
20 A9 Riga-Liepaja, 57.5           884   1716       15    15    68      68    1,500(  1,127   2,628    245      475   18622   18,501  170%    628%
Vehicle Operation Costs   USD/km        Traff. Growth                                                Cost Factors:
Commerc.   0.31              4%                                                          VOC      1.00                                       m
Cars   0.12            4%                                                        Constr.   1.00
ra o 



96            1           1997             1           1998             1           1999
ID   Task Name                                   Start    Finish     I3            0    J1 Q2 1     Q3    ]Q4              9 Q9  Q2  I Q3  I Q4  I Q1  I Q2  |   3
2    Road Maintenance                             8/1196   10/1199
3        Periodic Maintenance 11997               811/96  10/29197
4            Design                               811196  10/23/96 .
5            Bidding documnents preparation      8129/96   1/15/97
6            Bank comments                       1/16197    2/5/97
7            Bid docurments published              W97   2/19/97
8            Preparation of the bids             2/20/97   V49/97
9            Evaluate bids                       4110/97  4V30/97
10           Bank review of evaluation report      5/1/97   5/21/97
11           Contract awarded                     5/21/97   5/21/97                        5*12
12           Contract Mobilize and Construct      5/22197  10/9/97
13           Contract completed                  10/29/97  10/29/97                                         10/29
14       Periodic Maintenance 111997               8/1/96  11/24/97
15           Design                                8/1/96  11/20/96
16           Bidding documents preparation        9/26/96   1/15/97
17           Bank comments                        1/16/97   2/12/97
1B           Bid documents published              2/13/97   22697
19           Preparation of the bids               4/1/97   5/26/97
20           Evaluate bids                        5/27/97   6/16/97
21           Bank review of evaluation report     6/17/97    7/7/97
22           Contract awarded                      7/7/97    7m97                                7/7
Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Highway Project            Pors                                    oldU   akI
Date: 1N97                          Progress                               Rolled Up Task        _                                              
Miestone                              Rolled Up Milestone O<_
Page 1



96                       1997            |           1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                 Start    Finish    03    Q4  J1    02    03    04    Q 01    02  1 03             4      1    02    03
23           Contract mobilize and construct    7/8197  11/24/97
24           Contract completed               11/24/97  11/24/97
25       Periodic Maintenance 1,11 1998         7/1/97   9/25/98
26       Periodic Maintenance liIIV.V,VIVII 1998  8/1/97   10/1/98
27       Periodic Maintenance 1,11 1999         7/1/98   9/24/99
28       Periodic Maintenance II,IV,V,VI1VII 1999  8/3198   10/1/99
29
30   Bridges                                    8/1196  11/10/99      _                                  I _
31       Repair/Recons. 1,11 1997               811196  10122197
32           Design                             8/1/96  11/20/96
33           Bidding documfents preparation   10/10/96   1/29/97
34           Bank comments                     1/30/97   2119197
35           Bid documents published           2120/97    3/5/197
36           Preparation of the bids            3/6/97   4/23/97
37           Evaluate bids                     4/24/97   5/14/97
38           Bank review of evaluation report  5/15/97    6/4/97
39           Contract awarded                   6/4197    6/4/97                          6/4
40           Contract moblize and construct     6/5197  10/22/97
41           Contract completed               10/22/97  10/22197
42       Repair/Recons. 11998                   811197   10/1/98
43       Repair/Recons 111998                  10/1197  11/10/98
44       Repair/Recons 11999                   10/1/98  11/10/99
Task          _Wi                      Summary             -             Rolled Up Progress ~wf
Date'. I13197                     Progress                          IRolled Up TaskO 
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone o^:
Page 2



.6                       1 997                        1998     _                  1999
ID   Task Name                                  Start    Finish    Q3    Q4|Q1          02    03    Q4    01    Q2    0 Q3  I Q4          1      2      3
45
46   Road Safety                                 8t1/96   6/22/99              I                                          - ,   M      I           W
47       Black Spot Improvements 1,11 1997       8/1/96   8127197
48           Design                              8/1/96  11/20/96
49           Bidding documents preparation     10/10196   1129197
50           Bank comments                      1/30197   2/19/97
81           Bid documents published            2/20/97    3/5/97
52           Preparation of the bids             3/6/97   4/30/97
53           Evaluate bids                       5/1/97   51197
54           Bank review of evaluation report   5/22/97    614/97
65           Contract awarded                    6/4/97    6/4/97                           6/4
56           Contract mobilize and construct     6/5/97   8/27/97
57           Contract completed                 8/27/97   8/27/97                               *  8/27
58       Black Spot Improvements 1,11 1998       711/97   6/22/98              | I
69       Black Spot Improvements III 1998        8/1/97   7/30/98
60       Black Spot Improvements 1,11 1999       7/1/98   6/22/99                                         |
61                                                                                                                                                                            0
62   Laboratory Equipment                         2/2/98   9122/98
63       Publish GPN                             2/2/98    2W98                                                 Z/2
64       Publish SPN, Embassies                  2/2/98    2/6/98
65       Finalize Bidding Doc. & Specs.          2/2/98   2/27/98
66       WWs no objection to Bid Doc.            3/2/98    /20/98
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 1 W/7                        Progress                              Rolled Up Task           lo M
Milestone             *Rolled Up Milestone o..  
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 ..  



96           [            1997           ]            1998           [            1999
ID   Task Name                                  Start    Finish    03    Q4    Q1       Q2    Q3       Q4 |1        Q2  |3  | 4[                Q2    03
67       Issue invitation to bid                3/23/98    4/3/98
68       Prepare Offers & Submit                 4/6/98   5/15/98
69       Open bids                              5/18/98   5/18/98
70       Evaluate Bids                          5/19/98   6/15/98
71       WB's no objection to Award             6/16/98    7/6/98
72       Notice of award                         7/7/98    7/7/98
73       Submit performance bond                 7/8/98    7/8/98
74       Draw contracts or P.O.                  7/8/98   7/21/98
75       Receive Testing Equipment              7/22/98   9/22V98
76
77   Gravel Road and Low Cost Bitumenization   10/21/97   10/5/98                                                                                                     _
78       Design                                10/21/97    2/9/98
79       Bidding documents preparation         12/30/97   3/23/98
80       Bank convments                         3/24/98   4/13/98
81       Bid documents published                4/14/98   4/27/98
82       Preparation of the bids                4/28/98   6/22/98
83       Evaluate bids                          6/23/98   7/13/985
84       Bank review of evaluation report       7/14/98   7/27198
85       Contract awarded                       7/27/98   7/27/98                                                          7)27        |
I              I                                                          1 /2
86       Contract mobkize and construct         7/28/98   10/5/98
87       Contract completed                     10/5/98   10/5/98                                                              *  1015.
Task                 _Summary                                              Rolled Up Progress
Projed. 1igwaPrje Progress                                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 4



ANNEX-E
Page 1 of 3
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Indicators
Components f         E;  : Units  At Start   Dec    Dee      Dec      At procte
__________________                 ________         i    000i  1997  I  1998  1999  tcom ietion
Road Periodic
Maintenance
Design                    %           30        65       100                 100
Pavement                  %                     30       65       100        100
Bridge Repair and
Reconstruction
Design                    %           40        80       100                 100
Repair/Reconstruction     %                              50       100        100
Road Safety
Improvements
Technical Assistance      %           20        60       100                 100
Black Spot                %            0        50       90       100        100
Improvements
Bauska/Iecava Region      %                     40       100                 100
Gravel Road
Maintenance and
Low Cost
Bitumenization
Training                  %                     50       50
Implementation of         %                              100
Pilot Projects
Training Program          %           0         70      100                  100
for Contractors



ANNEX-E
Page 2 of 3
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Objecfive   Performance Monitoring      Units     At    Dec   Dee  Dee   Dec
Indicators                    Start  1997  1998  1999   2000
1      (Budget Allocation for                 0.3    0.4   0.5   0.5    0.6
Periodic Maintenance)/
(Optimal Budget for Periodic
__ __  Maintenance)                      _                                   l
2      Percentage of Funds                    30      60    70    80      90
Allocated for Main and
Regional Roads New
Construction or Periodic
Maintenance following a
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Cost per Square Meter of a 4   US$/sqm    8.6    7.0   6.5   6.5    6.5
cm Overlay
(IRI desired)/(IRI achieved)           0.5    0.7   0.8   0.9    0.9
for Road Sections Included in
the Project
Percentage of Contracts       %        60     80    90    90       0
Meeting Quality
l__________   Specifications                                                       l
3      Total Value Periodic        Index of   100    120   130   140    150
Maintenance and New          Total
Construction Performed by    Value
Private Contractors
Percentage of Contracts (in                   30    50    60
amount) Included in the
Project Awarded to Latvian
Companies and Joint-
Ventures
4      Number of Fatalities for     Index     100    90    85    80       80
10,000 km
Reduction in Fatalities on  Fatalities    -    1      6     9      9
Treated Accident Black Spot  Reduction
Reduction in Accidents with   Accidents    -   8     40    56      56
Injured on Treated Accident   Reduction
Black Spot
5      Total Budget/Total Optimal             0.2    0.3   0.4   0.5    0.6
. _________    Budget                I          I                          ._II_I



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTVES               MONITORiNG                MEANS OF               REMARKS
:__________               INDICATORS             VERICATION   _
1. Expand the level  Ratio: (budget allocation for    LRA, Ministry of   The level for economically
of periodic        periodic maintenance)/ (optimal  Transport, EBRD   justified periodic
maintenance where  budget for periodic           Road User          maintenance has been
it is economically    maintenance)               Charges Study,     determined by the end of
justified.                                       Belman System      1996 under the EBRD Road
In 1996, this ratio is equal to                 User Charges study.
0.3 (EBRD Road User Charges
study).
2. Improve (i) the   (i) Percentage of funds     LRA, Ministry of
efficiency and (ii)   allocated for main and regional  Transport.
quality of the road   roads new construction or
maintenance (by    periodic maintenance following
introducing        a cost-benefit analysis.
improved
technology and     (i) Cost per square meter of a 4
quality control and   cm overlay. In 1996,
by increasing      8.6$/sq.m.
LRA ' s cost
consciousness and   (ii) Ratio: (IRI desired)/(IRI
economic           achieved) for road sections
justification      included in the project.
capabilities).
(ii) Percentage of Contracts
meeting quality specifications
3. Support the     Total value of periodic       LRA                The first indicator measures
development of the  maintenance and new                             the work load of
private road       construction performed by                        contractors.
construction and   private contractors.
engineering        Index 100 = 1996                                 The second indicator
industries                                                         indicates the degree of
Percentage of contracts (in                     competitiveness of the
amount) included in the project                 Latvian construction
awarded to Latvian companies.                   industry.
4. Improve road    Decrease in the number of     Statistics from the
safety conditions in  fatalities for 10,000 vehicles  Road Safety
Latvia.            (19.9 in 1995)                Directorate
Index 100 = 1996
Reduction in fatalities and
accidents on accident black
spots treated under the project.
5. Establish the   Implementation of EBRD's      Ministry of        Total optimal budget has
mechanism and      recommendations regarding the  Finance, LRA      been determined under the
level of funding   optimal maintenance budget by                    EBRD Road User Charges
required to achieve  amendment of the Road Fund                     study.
the minimum total  law.
road transport cost.
Ratio : (Total budget)/(Total
optimal budget for the main
Road Network)



ANNEX F
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procurement Arrangments
Calendar Year (US$ million)
Project Element                1997        1998        1999         Total
1. Civil Works
1.1. ICB
a. Road Maintenance           4.2         3.4          3.6        11.2
b. Repair of Bridges                      1.8          0.9         2.7
c. Black Spot Improvements                 1.1                     1.1
1.2. NCB
a. Road Maintenance                       0.8          0.8         1.6
b. Repair of Bridges          0.6                                  0.6
c. Black Spot Improvements    0.5         0.5          0.5         1.5
d. Gravel Road Component                  0.3                      0.3
2. Equipment, Goods (IS)
a. Laboratory                             0.6                      0.6
b. Gravel Road Component                  0.2                      0.2
3. Consultant Services
a. Supervision               0.1          0.1                      0.2
TOTAL                           5.4         8.8          5.8        20.0
Reflects IBRD contribution only



ANNEX G
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procurement Plan & Schedule'
Nature of Package        rotal      Method of                  Major Activities Schedule
Proc.
Cost                   Issue  of  Submission of  Award  of  Completion of
Estimate                Doc.       Bids/prop     Contract    Package
US$000                                           Signing
Civil       Road Maintenance
Works
ICB/NCB
Road Maintenance 1 1997      3,000     ICB        2/6/97       4/9/97       5/21/97       10/1/97
Road Maintenance 11 1997     2,600     ICB        2/26/97     4/28/97       6/9/97       10/27/97
Road Maintenance 1, II     2xl,000     ICB        1/6/98      2/24/98       3/28/98      9/26/98
1998
Road Maintenance III, IV   2x1,250     ICB        2/5/98       4/3/98       5/7/98        10/1/98
1998
Road Maintenance V,          3x350     NCB        2/5/98       4/3/98       5/7/98        10/1/98
VI,VII 1998
Road Maintenance 1,11      2x1,200     ICB        1/6199      2/24/99       3/28/99       9126/99
1999
Road Maintenance III, IV   2x1,200     ICB        2/5/99       4/3/99       5/7/99        10/1/99
1999
Road Maintenance             3x350     NCB        2/5/99       4/3/99       5/7/99        10/1/99
V,VI,VII 1999
Bridges
Repair 1,11 1997             2x300     NCB        3/5/97      4/23/97       6/4/97       10/22/97
Repair 1 1998                1,000     ICB        2/23/98     4/12/98       5/13/98      9/31/98
Repair 11 1998                 900     ICB        3/23/98     5/19/98       6/23/98      11/10/98
Repair 1 1999                1,000     ICB        2/23/99     4/12/99       5/13/99       10/1/99
Road Safety
Black Spot Improvements      2x300     NCB        3/5/97      5/12/97       6/16/97       9/8/97
1, 11 1997
Black Spot Improvements      2x300     NCB        1/19/98     3/10/98       4/11/98       8/1/98
III1 1998
Black Spot Improvements      1,300     ICB        2/19/98     4/17/98       5/21/98      7/30/98
H1 1998
Black Spot Improvements      2x250     NCB        1/19/99     3/10/99       4/11/99       8/1/99
1,11 1999
Gravel Road Component
Gravel Road Component          400     NCB        1/19/98     3/10/98       4/11/98       8/1/98
1998
Goods       Laboratory Equipment         3x200       IS       3/24/98      5119198       7/8/98       9/23198
Gravel Road Component         6x50      LS        1/19/98     3/10/98       4/11/98       8/1/98
Consultant   Supervision                   200   Shortlisted   11/15/97    1/15/98       2/1/98       11/15/99
Services
'including contingencies



ANNEX H
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Table of Disbursements
Disbursements (US$ Million)   Cumulative %
IBRD FY         Semester         Semester       Cumulative    Disbursement
FY 97          June 97            0.0             0.0              0.0
FY 98        December 97          3.8             3.8             19.0
June 98           3.4             7.2             36.0
FY 99        December 98          4.4            11.6             58.0
June 99           3.8            15.4             77.0
FY 2000       December 99          1.9            17.3             86.5
June 2000          1.8            19.1             95.5
FY 2001      December 2000         0.9            20.0            100.0



ANNEX I
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
The schedule below is in addition to the regular needs for the review of procurement
documents, progress reports, and correspondence, estimated to require 6 staff weeks per year for
four years.
Approximate Dates          Activity             Expected Skill        Staff Weeks *
Requirement
FY 97
10/96                 Project Launch         Engineer, Road Safety           8
(Presupervision)      Spec., Procurement and
Disbursement Spec.
2/97                  Supervision            Engineer, Economist             4
6/97                  Supervision            Engineer, Road Safety           4
Subtotal                       16
FY98
10/97                 Supervision            Engineer, Road Safety,          6
Economist
2/98                  Supervision            Engineer, Economist             4
10
FY 99
12/98                 Mid Term Review        Engineer, Economist,            6
Road Safety
Subtotal
3/99                  Supervision            Engineer, Economist             4
10
FY 2000
10/99                 Supervision            Engineer, Economist             4
Subtotal
3/2000                Supervision            Engineer                        2
FY 2001
9/2000                Supervision            Engineer, Economist             4
Subtotal
12/2000               Supervision, and ICR    Engineer, Economist,
Preparation           Fin. Analyst                    10
* IBRD Staff Only



ANNEXJ
Page 1 of 2
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Services
Contract           Review the detailed design of the civil works selected for the  US$ 200,000
management and    construction season 1997 and 1998. Set up in coordination  (loan)
supervision        with LRA an efficient quality and quantity control. Train  IJS$ 100,000
LRA's staff on project management, design and supervision.  (Finland)
If deemed necessary, these services would be extended to the
third year of the project.
Review the current design procedures and the coordination on
Design review,     research of optimum design standards. Prepare a research  US$ 100,000
introduction of    program with the Committee for Standardization to adopt and  (Finland)
new techinologies   adapt EU standards.  Introduce a state of the art design
catalogue. The software used to perform  the design will
complement this catalogue.  LRA staff will be trained to
select design based on cost-benefit analysis. The new design
catalogue will include usual requirements regarding road
safety.
Training of        Train contractors, consultants and client staff with the aim of US$ I 00.000
contractors and    enhancing cost-effectiveness, and quality of the work to make  (France)
LRA                local contractors more competitive and to enhance their client
management capabilities. Identify contractors' weaknesses.
and conduct training  in preparation  of business plans,
enterprise  managemenit, accounting, financial analysis,
preparation  of cost estimate, work  planninig, contract
management, quality control, marketinig, communication,
human resource management.
Road Safety        Assist LRA  in implementing  a Road  Safety  Program   EU Phare
followinlg the recommendations made under the Highway  finanicing
Safety Program. Develop local expertise in accident black
spot analvsis.



ANNEX J
Page 2 of 2
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Gravel road       Analyse the current maintenance of gravel roads, introduce  US$ 200,000
maintenance and    state of the art techniques for gravel road maintenance and  (Sweden)
low cost          low  cost bitumenization, introduce economic evaluation
bitumenization    models to identify the most cost efficient technique, and
techiniques        implement several pilot projects (more than 5)
Road Fund and     General objectives of the study would include to        EU TACIS
Road User
Charges Study     (a) estimate the potential revenue that could be raised from  8 man-months for
road user charges.                                    the Masterplan
(b) define an optimal road tariff structure that would enhance
road use efficiency and avoid distortion among the various
transport modes.
(c) propose road user charges that would be implementable,
administratively feasible, comprehensible and generally
equitable.
(d) determine the necessary institutional
strengthening/reorganization to ensure a proper collection
and allocation of the funds.
(e) ensure that the road tariffs are fiscally neutral and without
major adverse impact on other sectors.



ANNEXK
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Safety: Comparison between various countries
Fatality Rate  Number of Killed  Number of Killed  Number of
per 100, 000    per 10, 000     Children per     Killedper I 00
hab.         Vehicules     100,000 Children     Injured
Latvia (95)        26.1             19.9               6.6            12.5
Russia (93)        27.0             34.8               8.0            19.3
Estonia (94)       21.8             12.8               3.4            19.9
Lithuania (94)     20.3             13.4               5.7            18.3
Belarus (93)       18.6             26.1               4.0           24.1
France (92)        17.2              4.1               2.2             4.6
Poland (93)        16.5              9.7               3.0            10.8
Ukraine (93)       15.6             23.8               3.6            17.1
Germany (92)       13.2              3.3               2.3            2.1
Switzerland        12.1              2.7               2.1            2.9
(92)
Finland (92)       12.0              3.1               2.4            6.1
Denmark (92)       11.2              3.6               1.9             5.5
United              7.6              2.9               1.3             1.4
Kingdom
Norway (92)         7.6              2.0               1.9             2.8
Sweden (92)         6.7              1.6               1.4            3.7



ANNEX L
LATVIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Fund Income and LRA Budget Projections
(million US$)
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
Road Fund Local Income          54.9      103.0      117.2      136.8      157.5
State Budget Investment          1.2        3.5
Excise tax                      40.1       85.9      102.3      121.9      141.6
Annual Transport Tax            13.6       13.6       14.9       14.9       14.9
Road  Fund  Income  from        16.9       22.3       14.8        7.9        4.9
Abroad
EBRD/JEXIM Credit               16.0        4.8
Danish Unibank Loan              0.9
World Bank/Kuwait Fund Loan                14.8       11.8        7.9        4.9
EU Phare Assistance                         2.7        3.0
Road Fund Total Income          71.8      125.3      132.0      144.7     162.4
Allocation to LRA               56.6       85.6       83.8       85.3       91.7
LRA Debt Service               0.5       1.0        4.0        4.4        4.7
Other Allocations for Railway,  15.2       39.7       48.4       59.4       70.7
Transport, Local Authorities'
Roads and Street



8RD 281 87
2V              2'                                          23~                                                           255                          2'6'                           27'                            28-
LAT VIA
t eQls, t g^'- 5g, Sooremoc                                               4                                                                \ HIGHWAY PROJECT
SReUSSr_   X   \ 5IAN                                                                                                                                                                           BRIS I/CLED U R THE PROIECN
665                                                                                                                                                                                            B t~ \v__S   EeD  E 6RIDGE NUMBER REFUENRS ARO7HNN jEX C
OF THE RESORT
LATVIA    \                                                                                                  -0DUAL CARRIAGEWAY                                                                                                     PORTS                        5-
1-                                                                                                                                                                                FIRSAIQIA    >/   \   P f  A n'   &  =  OTHER MAIN ROADS  NATIONAL CAFITAL
Th S-Ge ,                   ToER   ROADS o0                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED   CITIESllk  T O_,
FAIRSLASROADS              0     DSRC  AIA
.-'-...  oX1v1 56YJ  j                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INTERNArrNA  II\
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A0
SU'43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U S SI A
4a/0.O Y    ih. S. AM
~~-    %-                                          222-,P                                                                                            52                                                             2                                 5       cTsRB
IS,. USMIdRoId U...5,  5  20~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  .*b,
56-10'                                                                                                                                                                  Pi522  2'24  5'262'                                                              6
ni~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~O'RR19









IMAGING
Report No.:           16041   LV
Type:       SAR



