Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4145 LV
Loan Agreement
(Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4145 LV 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997, between Republic of Latvia (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Latvian Road Administration (LRA) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to LRA the proceeds of the Loan as provided for in this Agreement; and
(C)
to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends to obtain: (a) a 
loan from Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development in an amount equivalent to about 
$15,000,000; (b) a grant from the European Union (EU) in an amount equivalent to about 
$5,800,000; and (c) grants from the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, a grant from 
the Government of the Republic of France and a grant from the Government of the 
Republic of Finland in a total amount equivalent to about $700,000;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of section 6.03 as set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
 “Co-financiers” means the Co-financiers of the Project referred to in 
Recital C of the Preamble to this Agreement, namely, Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic 
Development, the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, the Government of the Republic 
of France, the Government of the Republic of Finland and the EU;
(b)
“Co-financing Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Co-financiers;
(c)
“LRSD” means the Latvian Road Safety Directorate of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Transport;
(d)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within LRA;
(e)
“Project Manager” means the head of the PIU; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for 
such Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on March 15 and 
September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through LRA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure 
sustainability of investments undertaken under the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause LRA to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause LRA:
(i)
to have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
LRA:
(i)
to maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
to retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
Page  5
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
to enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
to ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause LRA:
(a)
until Project completion, to report to the Bank, by November 1 in each 
year, the results of its economic evaluation of proposed road maintenance and 
rehabilitation programs for the following calendar year and of road projects included 
in the public investment program of the Borrower; and
(b)
to require for the carrying out of any road investment project, that such 
project be determined, in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank, to 
have a positive net present value and to give priority for implementation to road 
investment projects determined to have the highest ratio of net present value to 
investment cost.  For purposes of this paragraph the term “net present value” shall 
mean the present value of all expected cash inflows from an investment discounted at 
the cost of capital of 10%.
Section 5.02.  In order to ensure adequate funding for the maintenance of its 
road network, the Borrower shall cause LRA: (a) to carry out and review with the Bank, 
by June 30, 1997, a study of the financing needs for such maintenance, including 
possible funding sources and collection mechanisms; and (b) by December 31, 1997, to 
take, based on the recommendations of said study and the review thereof with the Bank, 
such measures agreed with the Bank as shall be required to implement said 
recommendations.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Road Fund Resolution No. 22 
of the Borrower’s Council of Ministers, dated February 1, 1994, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of LRA to perform its function of maintaining the road network.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that event specified in Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  6
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV - 1919
Republic of Latvia
Telex:
161 232 NAUDA LV
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Ojars Kalnins 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  7
(1)
Works
(a) Highway maintenance
   11,600,000
75%
(b) Bridge rehabilitation
    2,900,000
95%
(c)
Road safety
    2,200,000
85%
improvements
(d)
Gravel road works
      300,000
75%
(2)
Equipment and materials
      800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75%
of local expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Engineering design
     200,000
100%
and supervision
(4)
Unallocated
   2,000,000
   _________
TOTAL
  20,000,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods or works under contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of $200,000 in respect of contracts for goods and 
$500,000 in respect of contracts for works, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand the level of periodic road 
maintenance; (b) improve the efficiency and quality of road maintenance by introducing 
improved technology and quality control; (c) support the development of the private 
road construction and engineering industries; (d) improve road safety conditions; and 
(e) assist in establishing a funding mechanism to meet road transport cost.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Road and Bridge Works
1.
Repaving/rehabilitation of priority sections of roads classified as main and 
first-class roads according to the road classification maintained by LRA and 
Page  8
implementation of gravel road pilot operations.
2.
Repair/reconstruction of bridges in critical conditions on main and first-class 
roads.
3.
Remedial safety measures for major accident black spots and improvement of road 
safety in the two regions of Iecava and Bauska.
Part B:
Road Equipment
Provision of laboratory equipment to perform European Union-standard testing.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Technical assistance: (a) to LRA to assist in (i) the review of detailed design 
under the Project: (ii) the preparation of a program to adopt EU-road standards; (iii) 
the provision of training for construction and engineering companies, and (iv) the 
introduction of cost-efficient technologies in the maintenance of gravel roads; and 
(b) to LRA and LRSD to assist in the carrying out of Part A(3) of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2002
through September 15, 2013 
       835,000
On March 15, 2014
795,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  9
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods: (a) for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent; and (b) for the 
pilot operation under Part A(1) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis, respectively, of international and 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded according to the procedures 
referred to in Part B hereof; and (b) the first two contracts to be awarded according 
to the procedures referred to in Part C (1) hereof the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
Page  10
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause LRA:
(a)
until the completion of the Project, to maintain the PIU under a Project 
Manager with suitable qualifications and experience, and with such staff and 
facilities as may be required for the PIU to perform its functions under the Project; 
and
(b)
to assign to the Project Manager the general responsibility for 
management of Project implementation, including: (i) coordination with the 
Co-financiers; (ii) the preparation of the annual work programs under the Project 
referred to in paragraph 2 below; (iii) preparation of progress reports on the Project 
and the furnishing of the same to the Bank; (iv) supervision of procurement of goods, 
works and services under the Project; and (v) arranging for audit of the Project 
Account.
2.
The Borrower shall cause LRA:
(a)
to prepare, by November 1 in each year and to furnish to the Bank, a 
draft annual work program for works to be carried out under the Project during the 
following calendar year, including the financing Plans thereof; 
(b)
to obtain the Bank concurrence to such annual work programs and financing 
Plans prior to the start of implementation thereof; and
(c)
to include in said financing Plans the level of funding under the Project 
required to be met from LRA’s resources and a projection as to its capacity to secure 
such funding.
3.
The Borrower shall cause LRA:
(a)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about October 30, 1998, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
to review with the Bank, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
Page  11
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  12
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
