Document of
The World Bank                            Coy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             1L        -
Report No. P-3167-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
NAM NGUM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
December 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   -   New Kip (NK)
NK 1               =    US$0.10
US$1               =    NK 10
US$1 million       =    NK 10 million
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilowatt (kW)              =  1,000 watts (103 w)
1 Megawatt (MW)              =  1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)        =  1,000 watt hours (103 wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)        =  1 million kilowatt hours (106 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)              =  1,000 volts (103 V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)      =  1,000 volt-amperes (103 VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)      =  1,000 kVA
1 barrel                     =  42 gallons or 159 liters
1 US mill                    =  0.001 US$ = 0.1 USC
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   =  Asian Development Bank
bbl   =  barrel
EDL   =  Electricite du Laos
EGAT  =  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
KfW   =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of
Germany)
OECF  =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC  =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NAM NGUM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Lao People's Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:       Electricite du Laos (EDL)
Amount:            SDR 13.1 million ($15 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms:  Government to EDL:  For 20 years, including five years
of grace at 11.6% interest per annum. The foreign
exchange risk between the New Kip and the US Dollar will
be borne by EDL and that between the US Dollar and other
currencies will be borne by the Government.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to (a) optimize output
from the Nam Ngum generating station by installing an
additional 40 MW turbine generator, (b) study the
hydro potential in Laos for possible development in
cooperation with Thailand, (c) study the optimum strategy
for extending power supply to provinces other than
Vientiane Province, and (d) strengthen EDL's organization.
The project consists of:
(a)  Installation at the existing Nam Ngum Hydroelectric
Plant of: (i) a fifth turbine generator unit (40 MW
capacity), together with a short penstock and an
associated intake gate, and hoist and trash racks;
(ii) auxiliary equipment including a standby heat
exchanger; (iii) communication equipment; and (iv)
a step-up substation.
(b)  Carrying out of the civil works associated with (a)
above.
(c)  Engineering consulting services for (a) and (b)
above.
(d)  Power development studies.
(e)  Assistance to EDL to reduce electricity
distribution losses.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(f) Training of EDL staff and the provision of
training tools, metering equipment and accounting
machines.
In addition to the direct benefits to EDL, the project
would mutually benefit Laos and Thailand and it would help
to promote interregional cooperation between the two coun-
tries. The average increase in power output attributable
to the proposed fifth unit of Nam Ngum (145 GWh per year)
would be exported to Thailand in the initial years.
Estimated Cost:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million)
Turbine & mechanical auxiliaries    0.2           4.9       5.1
Generator and accessories              0.2        3.5       3.7
Electrical equipment                   0.1        2.1       2.2
Penstock, gate, hoist, tower,
racks                                  -        1.1       1.1
Civil construction                     0.3        1.0       1.3
Engineering & supervision                -        0.9       0.9
Studies, training & equipment          0.2        1.3       1.5
Total base cost                   1.0       14.8      15.8
Contingencies
Physical                             0.1        0.7       0.8
Price                                0.3        3.1       3.4
Total project cost                1.4       18.6     20.0
Financing Plan:                                Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
Government                  1.0         -       1.0
IDA                           -      15.0      15.0
OPEC Fund                   0.4       3.6       4.0
Total                  1.4      18.6     20.0
Estimated          IDA FY            FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86
Disbursements:                     -------- (US$ million) --------
Annual            3.7       5.5       4.4       1.4
Cumulative        3.7       9.2      13.6      15.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       17.8%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3346-LA, dated November 25, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR
THE NAM NGUM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 13.1 million ($15.0 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms, to Lao People's Democratic Republic, to help finance the Nam Ngum
Hydroelectric Project. Except for about US$800,000 equivalent for sector
studies, the proceeds of the Credit would be relent to Electricite du Laos
(EDL) for 20 years, including five years of grace with interest at 11.6% per
annum. IDA would finance the proposed project jointly with the OPEC Fund for
International Development (OPEC Fund). A loan agreement between the
Government and OPEC Fund for a loan of $4.0 million for 20 years, including
five years of grace with a service charge of 0.75% per annum was signed on
August 24, 1981.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic report in two volumes entitled "Socialist
Transformation in the Lao People's Democratic Republic" (No. 2282-LA dated
February 26, 1979 was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 20,
1979. An economic updating mission visited Laos during February 1981 to
discuss recent economic developments, changes in government policies and
progress in the preparation of a five-year development plan for 1981-85.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Constraints and Development Strategy
3.        Laos, with an estimated per capita income of $100 in 1980, is one
of the poorest countries in the world, despite its considerable resources of
timber and minerals and potential for hydroelectric power. Most of the
country's 3.6 million people live in poverty, and about 85% of the labor force
works in agriculture where techniques are generally primitive and yields as
low as anywhere in Asia. The country has not been self-sufficient in food
production for several years; as a result, malnutrition has been widespread,
infant mortality high and life expectancy low. Laos consumes practically all
that it produces and has virtually no national savings, so that it is almost
totally dependent upon external assistance for financing its development
plans.
4.        Laos  poverty and economic structure are the result of many factors,
in particular, centuries of weak government and foreign domination. For three
decades before the signature of the Vientiane Peace Accord, the country



- 2 -
suffered not only the physical destruction of war but also the structural
distortions of an economy dominated by a disproportionately large urban
service sector geared to war and an influx of foreign military assistance.
The current government, which came to power in 1975, has attempted to deal
with the problems of poverty and the level and structure of economic activity
within the context of a socialist transformation of the society. For the
first two years, the Government focused its attention almost exclusively upon
establishing and strengthening an administrative and political apparatus
capable of maintaining law and order: it neglected economic management so that
the already damaged economy suffered further from inflation, instability,
unemployment and shortages of food and foreign exchange. Since 1977, the
Government has given increasing attention to restructuring and developing the
economy.
5.        The Government-s development strategy has been clearly laid out in
the past few years in a variety of documents. In 1978, an interim three-year
development plan was published, designed to guide economic activities until
the completion of a five-year development plan for the period 1981-85. The
plan emphasized the development of agriculture and forestry, with the role
of other sectors being largely to support the needs of agriculture. Because
of the lack of transport facilities, top priority was given to making every
province self-sufficient in food production by 1980. In the two most
important statements on economic policy, resolutions seven and eight published
in 1979 and 1980, respectively, the Government reaffirmed its policies of
socialist development, but acknowledged the positive role of private economic
activity in developing the economy. It also emphasized the importance of
improved economic management over the next five years for the successful
implementation of the plan.
6.   In November 1980, the Government issued guidelines for the preparation of
the five-year plan in which it reaffirmed the objectives and policies of the
earlier three-year plan. The main economic objectives during the 1981-85
period are to: increase food production to the level of food self-suffici-
ency; develop livestock, fisheries and food processing; cooperativize
agriculture gradually; improve communications, in particular secure an
alternative route for external trade through Viet Nam, expand the hydro-
electric power sector, develop forestry and other export crops to permit
import of necessary consumption and investment goods; develop small industry
and handicrafts for domestic use and export; and expand the influence of the
state on trade, both externally and internally, through the restructuring and
growth of state trading organizations and the delineation of the respective
trading rights of the private and public sectors.
7.        The guidelines also provide general targets for the growth of the
economy between 1981 and 1985. They indicate that GDP should grow by
approximately 7% per annum, with investment increasing by about 9% per annum
and consumption by 2-3% per annum. Agricultural production is to increase by
4% per annum ind industry by about 15% per annum. Moreover, the guidelines



- 3 -
call for large increases in government revenues and expenditures, and
substantial increases in enrollment at all levels of education. Public
capital expenditure as a percentage of GDP would exceed 25%.
8.        In drafting sectoral plans, the various ministries have been
required to carry out various studies relating to policy reform, neglected
areas and specific problems. The most important of these concern taxation and
customs duties, the banking system, distribution of goods, production and
marketing arrangements for export goods, wholesale and retail prices and the
organization of construction activities. In general, the emphasis is being
laid upon increasing the monetization of the economy, improving the operations
of the state and socialist sector, defining the role of the private sector,
assuring the consistency and efficiency of economic levers, concentrating
investments upon rehabilitation and new projects which offer high and rapid
returns, and generating an increase in domestic economic activity so as to
increase domestic consumption and the availability of exports.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the period 1975-78, Laos suffered from inflation and short-
ages of food and foreign exchange. Over those years, the economy experienced
severe strains due largely to an overlay of administrative controls, weak
management of public enterprises, border difficulties with Thailand and a
steady exodus of skilled manpower. These severe economic difficulties were
made worse by drought and flooding which greatly affected agriculture. After
a minor drought in 1976, a severe drought struck the country in 1977, and in
1978, the major rice producing areas experienced severe flooding. In 1977 and
1978 alone, over 150,000 tons of foodgrains were provided through inter-
national aid to help alleviate food shortages and contain inflationary
pressures. During this period, Laos tiny manufacturing sector remained
depressed due to poor management and shortages of capital, spare parts and raw
materials. The decline in the level of economic activity in all sectors led
to severe underemployment, in the urban sector in particular, and to a sharp
decline in the standards of living of the population.  Also, government
attempts to deal with supply shortages through deficit financing for
resettlement and subsidized food distribution programs resulted in an
excessive liquidity expansion.  Prices increased by as much as 300% a year
during 1976 and 1977 in the urban free market, and the domestic currency
depreciated rapidly.
10.       Early in 1977, the Government started to implement policies which
were largely aimed at controlling excess demand, improving budgetary
discipline, and reducing public enterprises' deficits. The Government
prepared and launched the interim three-year development plan (1978-80) which
included several externally-financed rice irrigation projects and which was
designed to establish an economic base for future development. To further
cope with the deteriorating situation the kip was devalued from KN2 to KN4 in
mid-1978. These steps, coupled with higher levels of external food



-4-
assistance, improved the economic situation to some degree. Inflation slowed
down considerably. However, despite these favorable trends, considerable
price distortions remained, agricultural sector performance continued to be
disappointing and the increase in overall output was minimal. Thus, late in
1979, the Government undertook a major reassessment of its economic priorities
and policies, and adopted sweeping policy measures.
11.       The main objectives of these measures were to stimulate agricultural
production through a more effective structure of incentives; to encourage
exports; and to reduce the disincentives to private efforts in the marketing
sector. To deal further with the underlying causes for the lack of
agricultural growth, the Government planned development outlays for
irrigation, forestry and livestock. Administrative barriers to the free
circulation of goods within the country and to private border trade with
Thailand were removed; and, in an effort to reduce price distortions, official
procurement and retail prices were adjusted, by up to 500% in some cases, to
bring them closer to market levels. Also, tight fiscal and monetary policies
were adopted under a one-year IMF standby arrangement. These measures were
supplemented by specific steps to improve export performance and facilitate
the import of vital commodities. For a second time, the kip was depreciated
(by 60%), and efforts were made to solve border difficulties with Thailand.
12.       As a result of the measures taken since 1977 and good weather,
domestic economic performance improved in 1979 and 1980. Real GDP is
estimated to have risen by 6% in 1979 and 10% in 1980, led by the growth of
agriculture; by 1980 rice production was more than 30% above 1978 production
levels so that the country has been able virtually to eliminate food imports
in 1981. During the same 1979/80 period, timber production increased by a
similar percentage; electricity production more than doubled and output of
maize and coffee also increased. Under the impact of these developments, the
supply of both domestic and imported goods improved, prices remained virtually
stable throughout 1979, and devaluation and government reforms in 1980 reduced
many price distortions. Also, open unemployment was considerably reduced.
The provision of more consumer goods to the farming population, the lowering
of the marginal tax from 30% of output to a maximum of 8%, and the
introduction of a system of negotiated farm-gate prices led to a significant
increase in output marketed by farmers.
13.       Steady progress was also made in 1979 and 1980 toward improving the
budget position, as a result of increased activity of several state
enterprises and the Government-s willingness to maintain realistic prices.
Government revenue increased faster than expenditures, even though development
expenditures increased substantially. Consequently, the overall budget
deficit in terms of GDP declined from 21% in 1978 to 11% in 1979, and rose
again to 19% in 1980 only because of large price adjustments which were
necessary after the policy changes and the devaluation of the kip. With the
adoption of more realistic pricing policies and a simpler tax system, the



- 5 -
Government succeeded in broadening the tax base and even though the marginal
tax on agricultural product was reduced, tax revenues doubled between 1979
and 1980. Similarly, transfers from state enterprises to the budget more
than tripled in the same period; only a few continued to show operating
losses, and these were more than offset by surpluses generated by others.
As a result of these developments, more budget resources could be devoted to
development expenditures.
14.       Because the financial position of the public sector has been better
even than that envisaged under the IMF standby agreement, the expansion of
credit, which had been particularly strong before 1979, has been moderate.
During the first half of 1980, the Government eased restrictions on credit to
accommodate the large price adjustments induced by the pricing and exchange
rate reforms of late 1979; however, since then, fiscal and monetary policies
have been tight, although there exist pressures from the state enterprises
to increase credit. During the first half of 1980, net domestic credit rose
by over 75%, but its growth moderated to 35% in the second half. With
domestic credit growing slowly, currency in circulation also increased
moderately, and prices remained relatively stable throughout 1979. In 1980,
prices increased by 80%, with more than half of the increase being on account
of official price and exchange rate adjustments. The remainder was due
largely to the Government's decision in May 1980 to register private traders
and to the closure of the Thai border for two months, which led to shortages
of many goods.
15.       The improvements in domestic production and economic management have
not been reflected as strongly in the external trade sector. After tripling
in 1979, due primarily to an increase in private and barter trade of timber
and coffee and increased sales of electricity to Thailand, exports fell by
13% in 1980, and figures for the first half of 1981 show a further fall. In
1980, cash imports rose by 30% due to higher than anticipated import prices,
especially of petroleum products, coupled with an increase in commodity
imports, which were required to supply farmers with more consumer goods and to
build up reserves of strategic commodities, particularly petroleum products.
As a result, the current account deficit, which had been $84 million in 1979,
rose to $128 million in 1980; the overall balance, which had registered a
surplus of nearly $6.6 million in 1979, showed a deficit of nearly $11 million
in 1980. Gross international reserves fell to $14 million, the equivalent of
five weeks of 1980 imports, with net reserves amounting to $4.8 million. This
persistent disequilibrium in Laos- external trade explains largely why the
Government has been so limited in its freedom to stimulate more rapid economic
recovery; it also reflects the country's unfavorable geographic location and
its extreme underdevelopment, although any rapid development has been blocked
by marketing, distribution and border problems.



- 6 -
16.       In the first half of 1981, the balance of payments remained under
heavy pressure because of low timber exports, a sharp reduction in commodity
aid, border problems between Laos and its main trading partner, Thailand, and
because the Government has not yet reorganized the state trading company
successfully or given clear policy signals to private traders. The closure of
the Thai border in southern Laos, where most timber and coffee exports
originate, has made exports particularly difficult and costly, as all exports
must pass through Thanaleng, the only border port now officially open. Also,
the Government-s recent decision to grant the state trading company a monopoly
over timber exports has disrupted timber exports as the company's performance
is poor. In 1981, Laos export earnings are projected to decline by as much
as 8%, despite larger electricity sales to Thailand anticipated from the
tripling of the negotiated sales price and despite the growing importance of
socialist countries in Laos foreign trade. With the decline in export
earnings coinciding with a reduction in commodity aid, which reduced external
resources available to the Government, it is probable that imports will have
to fall considerably in 1981.
17.       In response to these balance of payments difficulties, the
Government has been reviewing its own expenditure plans, and it is expected
that both development and recurrent expenditure will fall considerably short
of original 1981 targets. Recent shortages of imported raw materials and
investment goods, together with longstanding shortages of skilled manpower,
have slowed the expansion of economic activity in Laos, particularly in some
state enterprises, and forced delays in the implementation of several
development projects. As a result, real GNP in 1981 is expected to increase
very little, and may even decline, despite the fact that agricultural
production is expected to increase by 4%. GNP in nominal terms is likely to
increase substantially, however, as the shortage of goods for production and
consumers has already accelerated inflation. An improvement in economic
conditions during the next year is likely to rest upon an improvement in
export performance which in turn will require more effective planning and
implementation of policies in trade and an improvement in the border
situation.
Development Prospects
18.       In the long run, Laos has a considerable potential with its good
farming land, and its abundant resources of minerals, timber and hydroelec-
tric power sites. But its medium-term development faces severe constraints.
The speed with which economic growth can be accomplished will depend criti-
cally upon the growth of export earnings and the availability of external
financing. It also depends on the Government's capacity to remove transport
bottlenecks, solve the problems caused by the shortage of skilled manpower,
and design internal policies in such a way that the country-s domestic
resources can be utilized with greater efficiency. The five-year plan
(1981-85), approved in early 1981, recognizes the necessity of promoting
growth of agriculture, forestry and exports. At the same time, as evidenced



- 7 -
by Resolutions 7 and 8, the Government is firmly committed to removing
administrative barriers to trade to implement the proposed development program
successfully. Under the program, large projects with the highest priority
include the construction of Routes 13 and 9, the latter providing access to
the sea through Danang, the extension of Nam Ngum Hydroelectric power project,
and irrigation and support services development in agriculture and forestry.
The financing of the development plan will be almost exclusively based on
foreign assistance with a significant grant element, since net domestic
savings will be virtually zero.
19.       On the basis of the government s target for increase in investments
and the country's absorptive capacity, it can be estimated that foreign aid
exceeding $100 million per annum will be needed over the next five years.
Laos could, however, face difficulties in mobilizing these external resources.
The country has virtually no access to international capital markets, although
its external debt burden is low and the debt service ratio in 1980 was only
about 6%. Laos has considerable mediumterm export potential in timber and
electricity, and the bulk of its debt is in long-term maturities at low
interest rates. Prospects for external aid remain uncertain. Aid from the
convertible area, which dropped sharply after the present government came to
power, has picked up and is expected to grow slowly, but imports under aid
programs from the nonconvertible area are projected to decline considerably
as a result of the termination of the commodity aid program in response to
improved domestic production of rice since 1979. Also imports of goods
originating from the nonconvertible area through the Vietnamese port of
Danang continue to be difficult and costly. As a result, the Bank has an
important role in providing financing and in helping mobilize other sources.
In addition, the Government-s success in achieving its goals will depend on
its ability to stimulate improvements in production and exports, improve the
efficiency of the marketing and distribution system, and mobilize more
domestic resources through better official costing and pricing policies.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Laos became a member of the Bank in July 1961 and of the Association
in October 1963. The proposed credit would be the Bank Group-s fourth opera-
tion in the country. During the wartime period, the Bank Group's contacts
with Laos were limited. In 1966, at the request of the Government and
bilateral donors, the Bank agreed to act as the administrator of the Nam Ngum
Development Fund, which was established with grants from Australia, Canada,
States to help finance the first stage of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme
located about 80 km north of Vientiane. The project was successfully
completed in 1972 and was expanded under Phase II in 1978. Electricity from
Nam Ngum is now serving the Lao grid and is being exported to Northeast
Thailand. During 1972-75, under the general sponsorship of the Mekong



Committee and in cooperation with the ADB and the UNDP, the Bank helped
identify the Casier Sud and Se Bang Fai pioneer irrigation projects in Laos.
The Bank is currently acting as the executing agency for feasibility studies
by the Mekong Secretariat for the Se Bang Fai project. In April 1975, the
Bank cosponsored an Aid Group meeting on Laos, chaired by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). In early 1976, after the political transition and the
establishment of the Republic, the new government requested IDA to begin
lending operations along the lines discussed in a preliminary way at the time
of the Aid Group meeting.
21.       The first IDA credit (760-LA) to the Lao People's Democratic
Republic was signed on January 5, 1978. There have been two further credits;
Cr. 924-LA for $10.4 million, signed June 15, 1979; and Cr. 1021-LA for $13.4
million, signed May 22, 1980. All these credits are for agricultural
rehabilitation and development, with the key objective being to improve the
quantity and quality of food production. The first two credits supported
irrigation development, intensified rice cultivation through improved seed
production, fertilizer use and pilot extension activities, pig multiplication
and feed grain production. The third credit concentrated more on post harvest
losses by providing for improved rice milling, coffee processing and for
upgrading mechanical workshops. IDA, UNDP and FAO have worked closely in the
design and implementation of all of the credits and some 10 UNDP/FAO technical
experts are working on the projects. Physical execution of these projects,
after a slow start, is progressing well, although some operations are affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds, as well as by lack of qualified local
staff for key positions. Institutional bottlenecks in the transport and
irrigation sectors constitute the largest obstacles to timely project
implementation. The Government is well aware of the need to eliminate these
bottlenecks, and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects. With the Bank Group-s assistance, the Government
has, under the first IDA projects, created an office of coordination within
the Finance Ministry to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take
remedial action. The work of this office has already begun to produce some
positive results, especially in resolving issues realted to procurement.
Also, the Bank-s Regional mission in Bangkok has increased its supervision
activities substantially in response to the Government-s need in these areas.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA's lending to Laos as of
October 31, 1981 and a note on the execution of the first three IDA projects.
22.       The Bank Group's relationship with Laos has gradually strengthened.
The approval of the first three IDA credits, the work of the economic missions
to Laos in 1978 and February 1981, the appraisal of the proposed project and
the identification work for future projects, have helped to create an
atmosphere of increasing mutual confidence and understanding between IDA and
the Government. While a generally sound basis for IDA operations has been
established, it will take time to build a working relationship that would



- 9 -
enable Laos to achieve the maximum benefits from its membership in the Bank
Group.
23.       A primary objective of Bank Group strategy in Laos is to continue
to improve its knowledge of the economy so as to maximize the contribution
of limited IDA resources to meeting Laos-s development needs. The Bank
Group intends, through its economic, sector and project work, to gain a
better understanding of the country's priorities and constraints as well as
the institutional and management systems. The Bank Group has made
considerable progress in its dialogue on the critical issue of restructuring
the incentive system to increase agricultural production. The recent changes
in agricultural pricing policy, if accompanied with suitable marketing and
credit policies, should enable the Government to undertake successfully
agricultural development programs designed to increase agricultural production
and exports. In line with the country's problems and priorities outlined in
Part I above, and in view of the scarcity of technical staff experienced in
project planning and implementation, IDA staff will seek priority projects for
financing that are clearly defined, simply designed, easy to implement, and
promise fairly quick returns. Since the basic problem now facing Laos is the
difficulty in feeding its population and the shortage of export goods, IDA is
concentrating on projects that could increase food production through
assistance for irrigation, drainage and flood control, and feedgrain
development. Priority projects for IDA financing include the development of
coffee production and export of timber, electricity, and the improvement of
rural infrastructure such as road maintenance or construction in support of
agricultural production.
PART III - ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources and Consumption
24.       Laos is endowed with abundant hydropower potential, and hydropower
sites ranging from 100 megawatts (MW) to 2,000 MW capacity, totalling more
than 18,000 MW capacity, have been tentatively identified. Much of the
potential is located on the Mekong River which could only be developed with
the cooperation of other riparian countries in the region. At present,
electric power generation and distribution is in an early stage of
development.
25.       Given the present low level of domestic energy consumption, the most
important energy source is firewood which accounts for over 90% of the energy
electricity accounting for only about 2% of total consumption. Coal is
another potential source for energy: deposits have been identified near Vang
Vieng in northern Vientiane province and in the Nam Phathene Basin in
Khammouane province. The mines near Vang Vieng may be developed for use by a
proposed cement plant.



- 10 -
26.       In 1979, sales to Thailand from the Nam Ngum hydro plant financed
about 35% of the oil import bill and, despite increasing electricity
consumption in Vientiane, the Government expects to be able to maintain the
exports to Thailand at about 540 GWh by 1990 with the commissioning of the
fifth generating unit (40 MW) in 1985 to be financed under the proposed
project.
The Power Sector
27.       Organizational Structure.  Electricite du Laos (EDL), a state
enterprise under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, is
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
Laos. The Department of Mechanics and Electrical Energy in the Ministry acts
as a regulatory body and also coordinates execution of studies in the sector.
28.       Access to Service.  Electricity is readily available in Vientiane
province and the present grid serves the city, the immediate vicinity, a few
irrigation pumping units, and some villages around Vientiane and Nam Ngum.
Roughly 20-25% of the households in the province have electricity and monthly
consumption averages 130 kilowatt hours (kWh) per connected household.
Outside Vientiane, only four other provinces have public electricity supply;
Savannakhet and Khammouane provinces, which import in all 6-7 GWh a year from
Thailand, and Champassak and Luang Prabang provinces which produce about 4 GWh
each per annum.
29.       Existing Facilities.  The present total installed generating
capacity in Laos is 123 MW, of which about 113 MW are hydro and 10 MW, diesel.
Apart from the Nam Ngum plant (110 MW), Vientiane has 8 MW (4 x 2 MW) of
diesel generating units at Sokpaluang which are now used as standby. In the
event of loss of generation at Nam Ngum, power may be imported from Thailand
and supplemented by diesel generation at Sokpaluang.
30.       The Nam Ngum plant, commissioned in 1971, is the main hydro plant in
Laos (Map IBRD 15514 R). The existing facilities have a total capacity of
110 MW and an average annual energy production of about 800 GWh. The plant
was constructed in two phases with the Bank administering the Development Fund
for Phase I (2 units of 15 MW each) which was financed from grants by the
Governments of Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Japan, Netherlands, New
Zealand and the United States. Thailand provided cement and electric power
for construction and EDL repaid for these through electricity exports after
the plant was commissioned. Phase II, administered by the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and which added two 40 MW turbine-generator units, was completed in
1978. This phase included the construction of all preliminary works for the
installation of the fifth unit to be financed under the proposed project.
Phase II was financed under a Second Development Fund and also with bilateral
financing provided on soft terms by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
the Federal Republic of Germany. The Second Development Fund included
long-term financing from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan for



- 11 -
the turbines, hydromechanical equipment and civil works. Other contributors
to the Second Development Fund were Australia, Canada, France, India,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Power Development Plan
31.       Apart from the proposed Phase III of the Nam Ngum project, EDL's
1981-85 Plan provides for extensions to Vientiane's 115 kilovolt (kV) and
22 kV transmission systems (270 km) and to the low voltage distribution
networks (150 km). The Plan also envisages electrification of about 76 of the
665 villages in the Vientiane province. The first three years (1981-83) of
the above transmission and distribution program will be financed by ADB. EDL
is also planning to extend its 115 kV transmission system to Vang Vieng, about
65 km north of Nam Ngum, in order to supply a proposed cement plant.
Recently, the Government, using funds from the Third Agricultural and Rural
Development Project (Credit 1021-LA), commissioned a study to determine
electricity demand in four southern provinces and to formulate a least-cost
program for development of electricity supply. Under this study, consultants
would review the expected future loads and consider the feasibility of taking
further supplies through interconnections of the system with Thailand as an
alternative to local generation. Finally, a feasibility study of the Xeset
(10 MW) hydro project in Champassak, will be undertaken using a grant of
$0.23 million from ADB.
32.       Beyond the proposed expansion of the Nam Ngum plant, the Government
wants to augment power generation to increase its capacity for exporting
electricity to Thailand. The Mekong Committee has already conducted prefeasi-
bility studies for many schemes on the Mekong's tributaries in Laos. These
studies now need to be reviewed to establish which schemes should be
considered for future development. Accordingly, the proposed IDA credit
includes $0.5 million for a review of potential hydroelectric power schemes in
Laos to enable Laos and Thailand to consider joint development of suitable
schemes. In addition, a study will be carried out to determine the optimum
strategy for the extension of power supply in Laos to provinces other than
Vientiane Province. A provision of $0.3 million for this purpose has been
made in the project. The Government would undertake these studies with the
assistance of consultants acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Domestic Power Tariffs
33.       The tariffs for Laotian consumers have recently been increased about
six-fold to NK 0.23 (US42.3) for domestic users and to NK 0.17 (US41.7)
for commercial users. These rates are lower than the export prices recently
agreed with EGAT (paragraph 47). The Government agreed that the domestic
rates will be reviewed with IDA on an annual basis and revised progressively
to reflect by March 31, 1985 the long-run marginal cost of electricity supply
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). These revisions



- 12 -
will assume greater significance for Laos because of the projected increase in
consumption within Laos, especially by the cement factory which is planned to
go into operation near Vang Vieng in 1984 and the lignite mine and the textile
mill scheduled to start operation in 1988 and 1990, respectively.
IDA Participation in the Sector
34.       IDA acted as the administrator on behalf of the Development Fund
during Phase I construction of the Nam Ngum project and is financing the Rural
Electrification Study under the ongoing Third Agricultural and Rural
Development Project (para. 31). The proposed project would be the first IDA
credit for financing power sector investment in Laos.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The original cost estimate for installation of the fifth unit was
prepared in 1975 and was updated in 1980 by the engineering firm, Motor
Columbus of Switzerland, which was the consultant for the second phase of the
Nam Ngum development. An IDA mission appraised the project in November 1980
and negotiations were held in Vientiane on November 13, 1981. The Government
and EDL delegations were led by Mr. Khammone Phonekeo, General Manager of EDL.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. A report entitled
"Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project, Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 3346-LA, dated
November 25, 1981) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
36.       The objectives of the project are to:
(a)  optimize output from the Nam Ngum reservoir by installing a fifth
turbine-generator unit (40 MW capacity) at the existing Nam Ngum
power station;
(b)  study additional hydroelectric projects in Laos which could be
considered for increasing exports of power to Thailand;
(c)  study optimum strategy for extending power supply in Laos, to
provinces other than Vientiane Province; and
(d)  strengthen EDL-s organization.
Project Description
37.       The project consists of:
(a) Installation at the existing Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Plant of:
(i) a fifth turbine generator unit (40 MW capacity), together
with a short penstock and an associated intake gate, and



13 -
hoist and trash racks; (i.l) auxiliary equipment incLuding a
standby heat exchanger; (iii) communication equipment; and (iv)
a step-up substation.
(b)  Carrying out of the ciivil. works associated with (a) above.
(c)  Engineering consulting services for (a) and (b) above.
(d)  Power development studies.
(e)  Assistance to EDL ro reduc.e electricity distribution losses.
(f)  Training of EDT, staff and the provision of training tools,
metering equipment and accouinting machines.
38.       The Nam Ngum hydroelectric plant is located approximately 80 km
north of Vientiane and the existing facilities have an average optimum annual
energy production of about 800 GWh. The turbinies for all the four units are
Francis type supplied by lHitachi of Japan and the generators for units 3 and 4
were provided by AEG of the Federal Republic of Germany. 'lie generator
voltage of 11 kV is stepped up to 115 kV and transmitted over three
transmission circuits to Vientiane and on to Thailand.  These three circuits
have adequate capacity to transmit the power generated by the existing four
units and that to be generated by the proposed fifth unit.
39.       The proposed fifth unit would have specifications similar to those
of the existing units 3 and 4, and would be instalLed in the existing power
house. It would enable optimal operation of thie power station where
currently, even with the existing four units operating at full capacity nearly
95% of the time, there is substantial water spillage over the dam even during
an average year. The proposed new unit would permit an increase in average
annual energy production from the plant by about 145 GWh by (a) permitting the
uise of spill water during the monsoon months, (b) enabling preventive
maintenance of units without loss in the annual production of power, and
(c) substituting generation using the small, low efficiency 15 MW machines
(units 1 and 2), with that using the more efficient 40 MW unit.
Cost Estimates
40.       The total cost of the proposed project, excliiding interest during
construction, duties and taxes, is estimated at $20 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $18.6 million, or 93% of the project cost.  Estimates
are at October 1981 price levels and incluade contingencies amounting to
$4.2 million.  Physical contingencies are estimated at 2j0.8 million, or 5% of
base costs.  Price contingencies of $3.4 millior, or 22°' of base costs, were
calculated at assumed annual escalation rates for foreigon expenditure of 8.5%
for 1982 and 7.5% per annum thereafter and for local cost of 12% for 1982 and
1983, 10% for 1984 and 97 for 1985.  EDL is not subject t:o customs duties or



- 14 -
taxes on equipment and materials for the project. Cost estimates are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary.
41.       The total cost of the services to be provided by Motor Columbus of
Switzerland for engineering and supervision of the project will be
SwF1.7 million ($0.9 million). The basic man-month rate for home office would
average SwF22,590 ($11,825). The gross rate, including field services, direct
expenses, travel, and operational training of EDL staff, would average
SwF30,900 ($16,180) per man-month. The basic rates for consultants' services
for additional hydro development and power supply extension studies and
technical assistance for reducing distribution losses are estimated to be
about $10,000 per man-month.
Financing
42.       Project costs will be met by (a) the proposed IDA credit of
$15.0 million (80.8% of foreign cost), (b) the OPEC Fund loan of $4.0 million
of which $3.6 million would be for foreign cost (19.2% of foreign cost) and
$0.4 million would be for local cost (30.3% of local cost), and (c) the
Government contribution of $1.0 million equivalent (69.7% of local cost).
43.       IDA would administer the OPEC Fund loan under a joint financing
arrangement. The OPEC Fund loan agreement was signed on August 24, 1981; the
loan is for 20 years including a grace period of five years with a service
charge of 0.75% per annum. The Government would relend the proceeds of the
OPEC Fund loan to EDL for 20 years at an interest of 8% per annum. Except for
about $800,000 for sector studies, the Government will relend the proceeds of
the IDA credit to EDL for 20 years including 5 years of grace with interest at
11.6% per annum (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
EDL will bear the foreign exchange risk between the New Kip and the US Dollar
while the Government will bear the foreign exchange risk between the US Dollar
and other currencies. Effectiveness of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement and the
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and EDL for
relending the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(a) and (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
The Beneficiary
44.       EDL is a state enterprise with headquarters in Vientiane.  The
Government appoints EDL's general manager who, together with four assistant
general managers, is responsible for planning, operation and maintenance,
administration and finance. EDL's provincial managers are responsible to the
general manager but manage their operations quite independently of
headquarters, except for receiving assistance with procurement and technical
support for construction and maintenance.
45.       EDL controls its own finances but is required to remit its profits,
depreciation and taxes to the Government each quarter based on its annual plan
agreed with the Government. Under existing arrangements, depreciation



- 15 -
payments are available to the enterprise to meet the cost of major overhauls
and to replace worn-out or obsolete assets. Tax and stamp duty payments to
the Government amount to about 3.3% of EDL's operating revenues.
46.       The lack of trained engineers and technicians has hampered EDL's
operations. Out of a staff of about 1,000, as of mid-1980, only about 40
had any professional training. The shortage of technical staff is due to the
departure of large numbers of qualified staff since 1975, and also to low
salaries. The proposed project would contribute to the strengthening of EDL's
technical staff through the provision of $0.3 million from the proposed credit
for training of EDL's engineering and commercial personnel. In addition,
$40,000 would be provided for tools and equipment to improve existing
workshops and laboratory facilities at EDL's training center.
47.       EDL has been selling about 90% of the electricity generated at its
Nam Ngum plant to EGAT under a 10-year sales agreement. Initially, EGAT paid
US 4.5 mills per kWh but this price was increased to US 10.5 mills per kWh in
October 1975, to reflect the increased cost of power production at Nam Ngum.
However, the revised price did not match the increase in fuel oil prices nor
the cost of alternative power in Thailand. During the preparation of the
proposed project, EDL and EGAT were urged to establish a new sales/purchase
price for the Nam Ngum power which would provide an adequate rate of return on
revalued assets of EDL and to make adequate provision for future escalation.
Following protracted negotiations, EDL and EGAT have recently concluded a new
Electric Energy Supply Agreement for continuing exports of power to Thailand
(Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). This agreement stipulates
inter alia that (a) EGAT will purchase surplus electricity from EDL for ten
years; (b) the price will be US 31 mills per kWh starting October 1, 1981, and
escalating by 9% annually until September 30, 1986; and (c) the price to be
negotiated after October 31, 1986, will be reviewed in light of economic
conditions then prevailing. Any change to the agreement without IDA's prior
approval would be an event of suspending the credit (Section 4.01(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Presently, the distribution system losses in Vientiane are estimated
to be as high as 30%. Provision has therefore been made in the proposed
credit for $0.21 million to assist EDL in the preparation and implementation
of a program to reduce distribution losses (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Project Agreement), including a program to improve EDL's meter testing
facilities. EDL will formulate the program by June 30, 1982 and furnish it to
IDA for review and comments. Also, the proposed project includes $0.21 mil-
lion for procurement and installation of accounting machines to improve EDL's
billing and collection systems. This component would complement the work of
the financial advisor financed by ADB to improve EDL's accounting system.
49.       EDL's Financial Position.  As mentioned in paragraph 47, EDL sells
the bulk of its output to Thailand and its revenues are a major source of
Laos' foreign exchange earnings. In 1979, these sales were valued at about
$8.3 million and represented about a third of the country's foreign exchange
earnings for that year. EDL's estimated operating income in 1980 of about



- 16 -
$3 million equivalent represented about a 3% rate of return on its average net
fixed assets after revaluation.
50.       At the end of 1980, EDL-s net fixed assets had a historical value
equivalent to about $65 million. The Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Plant and the
associated transmission lines and substations comprise more than 90% of
EDL-s fixed assets. Much of the remaining assets comprise Vientiane's diesel
generating plant, which is maintained on standby for emergency use, and
obsolete machinery and equipment.
51.       Most of EDL's existing long-term debts contracted by the Government
are related to the Nam Ngum phase II expansion and are owed 54% to KfW (West
Germany) and 35% to OECF (Japan). At the end of 1980, outstanding long-term
debts amounted to about $62 million equivalent. All of this amount is on soft
terms repayable over periods ranging from 20-50 years. Although these debts
are not recorded in EDL's books, EDL gave assurances that it will record them
in its balance sheets and include debt service payments in its financial
statements. For the purpose of calculating future rates of return, EDL would
revalue gross fixed assets annually in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA.
52.       EDL-s capital expenditures during the four years 1982-85 are esti-
mated at NK 583 million, of which NK 235 million, or about 40%, represents the
cost of the proposed Nam Ngum project and NK 348 million (60%) is for other
capital works. The Government's budget allocations will provide NK 358 mil-
lion (61%); NK 219 million (38%) will come from borrowings and NK 6 million
(1%) would be a grant from the Government of Japan. EDL's net internal cash
generation during the period, after meeting the debt service and working
capital requirements, is projected to amount to NK 854 million or about
1.5 times the estimated capital expenditures and will be remitted to the
Government. Thus, there will be a net transfer of funds from EDL to the
Government of NK 496 million ($49.6 million equivalent) over the four-year
period.
53.       The recently renegotiated sales agreement with EGAT will enable EDL
to achieve at least an 8% rate of return on average net revalued fixed assets
during the period 1982-85 compared to less than 3% in FY80 and 4% estimated
for FY81. EDL's debt, if all existing debt were to be included in its
financial accounts, is estimated to come down from 42% of its capitalization
in FY81 to 31% in FY85 mainly because of the large additions to equity
resulting from the expected future revaluation of assets.
Implementation
54.       By March 31, 1982 EDL will establish a project implementation unit
to help with the execution of the project (Section 2.06 of the draft Project
Agreement). The head of this unit will be responsible for coordination with
the consultants project manager. EDL has appointed Motor Columbus of



- 17 -
Switzerland, which was also responsible for the execution of Phase II
expansion, as engineering consultants for the proposed project. The contract
was signed in September 1981 and the consultants were appointed in accordance
with the terms of reference approved by IDA. The consultants are expected to
complete the design review and preparation of tender documents by the end of
December 1981. The cost of this work, estimated at about $0.16 million, will
be financed from Credit 1021-LA. During construction, the members of the
consultant firm will each have counterpart staff from EDL's technical and
construction departments. The proposed project is expected to be completed by
March 31, 1985.
Procurement
55.       Civil works and equipment to be financed under the proposed credit
will be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA's procurement guidelines. Four contracts (for turbine and auxiliaries;
generator and accessories; electrical equipment; and penstock, gate, hoist,
tower, racks and civil works) are proposed. A fifth contract for communica-
tions equipment will be made in collaboration with EGAT who will finance the
cost of terminal equipment at its Udon II substation.
Disbursement
56.       Dishursements of the proposed credit would be against 80.8% of the
following items: (a) the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment (supply
and installation) and tools; (b) the foreign exchange cost of engineering
consultants; and (c) the foreign exchange cost of the power development
studies, training of EDL staff, tools and accounting equipment and assistance
to EDL to reduce system losses. Disbursements by IDA are expected to be
completed by September 30, 1985. The OPEC Fund loan would cover the remaining
19.2% of the foreign exchange cost and 30.3% of the local cost.
Justification and Benefits
57.       In addition to the direct benefits to EDL the proposed project would
mutually benefit Laos and Thailand and it would help promote economic
interregional cooperation between the two countries. The new agreement
provides for a guaranteed outlet for EDL's surplus energy for the next ten
years as the average increase in output due to the addition of the fifth
generating unit at Nam Ngum plant would be exported to Thailand in the initial
years. At the same time, EDL's surpluses would provide for a reliable source
of power supply for EGAT and thus contribute to foreign exchange savings which
Thailand would have otherwise had to spend on imports of alternative sources
of energy. The internal economic rate of return to Laos is estimated at
17.8%, based on the agreed selling rate of US 31 mills per kWh as a measure of
the benefits. The IERR to Laos and Thailand combined is likely to be much
higher.



- 18 -
Environment
58.       The project has no environmental risks since it only adds a fifth
generating unit to the existing hydro power station without increasing the
size of the reservoir or transmission facilities.
Project Risks
59.       The major risk for project implementation would be the possibility
of closure of the Thai/Laos border which would prevent free flow of materials
and equipment during construction and delay project implementation. The risk
that someday either Laos or Thailand may abrogate the sales purchase agreement
cannot be discounted completely. However, given that both countries benefit
substantially from the transaction and in view of the experience of the past
ten years during which there has been no interruption in the supply of
electricity from Nam Ngum, such a possibility is considered to be remote.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Lao People½s
Democratic Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and Electricite du Laos (EDL), and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
61.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that: (a) the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and EDL
(para. 43); and (b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the OPEC
Fund Loan Agreement have been fulfilled (para. 43).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 3, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
LAO PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIEET
LAO POR                               REFERENCF. (ROUPS (WFICIITFI) AVEACES
LAND AFLEA (THOUSAND SQ. KY.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             236.8                                              MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       16.7                    1960  /b    1970 lb       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC           ASIA * PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                            ..           ..                ..             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             17.2        101.5             101.6             499.4                   1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)         2382.0       2962.0            3349.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)         7.9          9.6              13.0               17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                       5.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                        11.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              10.1         12.5              14.1             153.6                    373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           136.1        171.0             196.7             360.3                   2382.8
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                41.2         41.7              45.9              37.4                     39.8
15-64 YRS.                                56.4         55.7              51.4              59.2                     56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          2.4          2.6               2.7               3.5                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.0          2.2               1.4                2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                     2.9          4.1               4.7               3.4                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            43.7         44.7              42.2               27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            22.5          22.8             21.0               10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     2.9          3.0               3.0                2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL. (THOUSANDS)             ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..           ..                ..              20.4                     44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                 83.0        101.0              97.0             110.8                    123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                          86.0         96.0             94.0               97.2                   112.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)                 52.0         58.0              53.0              54.7                     62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              10.0         12.0              12.0              14.5                     19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            30.0         30.1              2.6                14.                      4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           40.4         40.4              42.4               57.7                    .4.0
INFANT MORTkLITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                    ..           ..                ..               59.1                    St.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..         48.0                ..              30.1                     45.9
URBAN                                      ..         97.0                ..              65.8                     68.0
RURAL                                      ,,         39.0  -             ,,              20.1                     34,.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..               3.0              17.6                     53.4
URBAN                                      ..           ..              10.0              71.0                     71.0
RURAL                                      ..           ..               2.0               4.8                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                54136.4      16547.5          20064.1             3857.7                   4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                ,.       4529.1            3044.7            6411.8                   2229.7
POPULATION PER IIOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  2273.0/c    1177.3             1020.0            1132.8                    588.5
URBAN,                                     ..        277.8                ..             322.3                   579.6
RURAL                                      .,       2771.2                ..            5600.5                   1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER llOSPITAL BED                  ..         8.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SINE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
, URUAN                               ,      . .          ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      *.           *-
URBAN                                       ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWEI.LINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..           *-
URBAN                           i          *.           *.
RURAI.                                     ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                     Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
LAO PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAO FUR                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT        LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA S PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      25.0        54.0             92.0              85.9                    99.8
HALE                      34.0         67,0             99.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                    16.0         40.0             85.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       1.0         3.0             14.0              38.0/as                 53.5
MALE                       1.0          5.0             18.0              34.67/a                58.4
FEMALE                     0.4          2.0              9.0              18.07as                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)           9.0         14.0              3.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 32.0        36.0             30.0              32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                               18.0        17.0             21.0              19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             28.3/c         ..               ..    _         52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.4         3.7              4.4               1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              8.2         15.9             62.5              35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..           ..               ..               3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       12.0/c        ..               ..               14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        o.27-       0.3               ..                3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           1304.1      1494.1           1530.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       47.0         45.1             44.8              29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  83.1         78.8             75.6              69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      3.9          5.3              5.9              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     54.7        50.4             45.7              39.7                    40.2
MALE                                      57.1        54.8              47.5              51.5                   49.8
FEKALE                                   52.3         46.0             43.7              23.3                    31.1
ECUNOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8         0.9               1.1               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECE1VED) BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT DF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..
FOVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..               ..             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..             111.6                   193.7
ESTIhATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..               ..                ..                  249.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..               ..              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..              51.7                   32.2
. bot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and tor Moat Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 21-                                                                            Page 3 of 5
tltPiLNTIONtt OF SOCIAL. lDC9TlttS
Not..:  AletotRh the data atdraefraocoa  ee. f. lydjudlltd the  -ostanttetlestto  and  Ie al,to ehoodat.                           ottdts          a   o   eItr
satotll  topaabe  eoaaeofth  It-   f  todtt dledltltln    ndco-'.sdh   tfoelcot  o   or   otn    10dt.   h                                        oae   oe
ebeeet  atfalto  asolhaorersof  ta0tlta,  nd cat  tend   a.johrsoorleoattlmnor  lftroota  otTehooed-o
the  "a'In rusaeI)te  at  otIogopo   h  ettotoutnad11a  onr   ro   tOaooa                                                      blto  ao-oe  In'om thenI- bhotuotr  re
ofeas Petono    occ   o    tte   ueu   t   enor'oetcoe   IdeIcn   tt    ftaedtldot,t'otoe   etccferne
total    tota  sortate cec onarlsto  landseat ad tolnd oters.                lt nc *.r'.-n,   d:a    t."  -....n et - ott.                      "t   K.
Agololrual -Le aseofarlu tnt  rs  td-esotoIIno-pdtonly                                 P±uaIot.pohotftcro   -td u.t c Jt co  he  uhe   rprt I n
too tooe. paturee,  arlee ad Pleoo  garent orto    aftIn   9fdt,             sl   o   e IItgrdat   etI,_pe. I0V0-tat  en  a                       Plea I
190,sd.1978Wd.tt..ab.ttt..onconoor.  --npt.t-la                                                                                 .I nor eootl,bnoape ot1   tfe
T.,.l   ct.,       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~tealold  Oc    uottloora   od-ecaod  cedttc.adtua
date.                                                                               tron hoPapltals dllodtt h  r-oro  b
tr1hen Pooolot entptcn   tnl     al  a   ra   oooa   oual
difco     Celtln    fubnaoarysltoceeallyo   aa                                  nCIt
amot   auote   :60   97,  e  170dtt                                               naag   Ir  o   ouebl  terht  r  hcahld  -tto.  non"adrIa
PeolalocPrlonlot                                                   Abrothl  -ontad  of" a  oc   fteilul   cItee                   tt toqoer
Poultle1yyer  00    Ctto  ppucto   pefocucacr  Ied  0-88             rdoh ,   caI  nelt.0   oare   ttde   a   ratth   tolddO
toalpoulnlnbyat  cd  o  ad  heootulln  ae   etltonto                         b   ochl   Ic  s d tonl   oron-
P91 a.eodt197  ydraenee  too   n      Wl Iny taet-prooo  t1o9etonc                      haaeuheo  cnenprtc-otl cbn n0url-Ao ete
InEGY ClIfe eNetny  0htrleeoetttcoorapecacaeom                                             heri of pecoo -,-oo.  ,ta    uran  adnuplccoc   croe Iota
Ice ,edlauelo.epeney  ncI icoe    1t .r .Oopas.oatrc  ....I.ey   To  toe0c c   nny.aetenutro   e
sttrafr  eotly   ae  lobeo  heeloeea-ute   eolc  eunoups  yda
fetltaoedttt    corlolau  pa   alcy aonTe frae.                                  ttmst   lcoefoiecnto   ol  nn  -eoI   ran   n   ua 
tan  cunty   soancat_ o   o   fooonr   ctuauo   tnealy                             Cnetba    ol  re   t   lcr  tyc   oe   w   et   apretg
o.f. ot0rpar.nel  oc  0    h    --pit-n;r p1960 uloa1970,.._____d__1978_  P--IflY-rfd h                                                       (broo  rot I, saoad  fom
e  idolleen  cI all ageel an fthe_pccoury  tuo
It tho 10c  1000. an  the raoeot doolco  of  1ert 6to    1970o ho repace       -Peaabtejoeiohllrn   lrcr   l iaodcno    e
Porulatlo n9 lens Inct'
Per an. ha.  orclcur I-an   -        dCmptedh, aoo  o  og .ou .uoo  lan                                                                           h.,olldod.
only                                                                        hotanlonal       ~    ~    ~       of eocor-f.fY -- IccatIoeal..dnohlhuo-ons
~yjlcoo  oretrotre(cocro  -Chlden- -1  yoc tt  ccto-ee  15-             inlue  ecnial  tdunrol. n  nhc  eehtOnhih.h.peath.d'et
duycrf adreIe   (dO btheattdoate   eooee   rmdya   oo                                      enyo  so f-anno,  cI                                            I  w.
lafo;lAO  17,  r  178ltePru-necuo   ato      o-rc--ocoduecr  a  hu eilnrlede
p.p......n; 1960  1910  Pe 98  aaenrlo
Crd  ot   oad     ect,cod  -Ana   otefo.huado  odya                                       oane.Cr.pr..codoolnlot-Paegcorscnro    oo
poplaio; IAd  170.an  178   at                                                            cneseoto   len  rohefbopotot   toudt  nhoahee, hcocaan
lec  Rrolttr ee-engonnrnotduhtran~ -d                        ea  h.tcnnhllu
Faily tiahln-Cer   (eno o,crIed  honer) -t nonae  tnr.ed                                   ouoteacthd1 colt
peodootlon of all food coceod. blo  d. Po  olnooue   edadLa ofd                      Ition- otdlocnra   naonarhae,d odaae  ldclpb
h d- Th. y- h.. .... i._y              Ci..antn - d ieted pi-ai    noncodn  geneool  dc ..It te.. fondIe
isnnlna   ot, bas        coiteae    ror   od   eo   uann                            oh    al    ft  apposn  atlor   fou    lmaceb
P.,ol    rgaOeuerpIe  ePto;10-0,17.  ni97   00
per day.  Otellobte  topy leeConPnttde doneo Ic , grdunlc. ...Ild.. InportPittn2Tota   Laor7oe(n         --eer   -f Ennetolo   rt_.p.m..          otud
emporY.    .o hoeaIa b. Ntsplrteluranolte,  rd.                                            tnd fnr   o   orpoe   u   ocuophtetrs   tdn    et.11
houshol  tr!oo :                                                                                    VIr  90   o   07dt    lhn    eporoto   totllbrOno.  9c   etad17   aa
tesplnf_ foto  per Ju.Ce9   ocl   1todI  dtoo   mabe.no                          o  eor   I c-t        - hater  le de-e at peocnta  - of total labo  torte;10
..t.lfoocn5t 60 tot all ~ cono da e197lhdho11  pole  c  eno7                               90an   9    es
C  leccc   fO  gaao  ttlprttpr  o   r  I   reec   neu   n                                 AdtiAt oine lce               -ttoIoca
C t,rd d read turor9o; 1970,-rh  170ad,                                                                                                              Y_doc  oO   91  ad17   aa    leo  o   tn,ctupnlt   at   o  rn
Cttll~~~jageo  I-A) Coot. Itte tate  t.py. olt.ctnatca) - iceua I loathe coo thoutand  In~cb  . 1.  t.   .igh
hlr   ~ ~ ~     ~    __t  hettt  ao  fon
teeadoa   -rco    tot  te  ab d; il   97  and 0 177     C deta.               trAeotyrrn pl-n...ef.feot
ttP,ALTh                                                        Peorsoecto of Petoana lotte,.~'.   (bot-dh   c-f adl lf,od)-O lr   ylhe
5 pecen.rthesld   enuet,  ectonl   becero.enpoceeedproeP
I.lE.peotcootrtjj~a.t      Oerosoute  o-oar  of., lfe  r pt.a.a.                        ofbId hls
at btreo; lurt, 1070 and 197,1 data.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt:_
toac  Oora co  at    1Zo -tttc.oef - tone~dddah      utesor   t  ra                ot       c,t   nte
p1 iade pet    i,,taan    l (s tth.4                                              -     I)- b    ""                       
5                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~t..ttmcte   bhattutd Pooc-oIntn% ee   I)errnla   ctnctrnl
gco.tcet.d      t  (p..n  o(St_itoj  tti,>nac.tdrt I--                                                                                   o  eebtort)alls
l.d.. Pi F-d PtPd-tl ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      Ohcltopooro              lreltoha   ltc
nuP_.te..o(cal   tt,tJoeI   to   enoheoeo   osfe                                           ntll,slaett  de   lstcotlnnI o   eutnnsI   o
ottersoccI  ctolcaratrottd  cutaue  ctet  -.t  d _nret d _ou  Sohe...scd         atuuto
so. ban,-f  tetfrsoutd    o   trhto,eoto ,edc. Md              oo le.s             soaejrate fer pnoe  ee(ypr   otet-rtnsd-oa 
patraootetratclrfeuatntcoaohnoa    ubI                                                      ca   oatb   .oeoInoaIofI  neoldo   ooaeprnpe
fonalcsacpsloaedc    ctte   ldoteft.octs    ahe                                      peoolnumoehtorn     lbnrnltdtledrsbCaa
ocooldeted sa hator otttttn  reo.decale aros  Atta_.to.lnrlo                           ee   tt   duonetlth0,rca   fIon   ot.nra
recsatahleaorseculo  ls~~~~~~~lo that tOte h.e,saecls 00 ssOhtomet tho hneaahold~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~
S'etsO  Icldeen  nt-sAt,cae -     taos 1.rltcortctt t-d           soc                                        tosmI  Aaise  odFo)ktlosftpP"mn
ofboto  e,tI  antah-aorh   te-orsssa.ottets                                                                                      dpei.L  t88
plo pttolee cod atmllan Install actor!.if



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population (1980)       :  3.6 million
GNP per Capita (1980):  $100
Average
Amount            annual
(million       increase (Z)         Share of GDP at
US$ at cur-    at constant          market prices (%)
rent prices)      1977 prices       (at current prices)
Indicators                           1980            1977-80         1977             1980
National Accounts
Gross domestic product /a           350              5.7            100              100
Agriculture                       236              9.6             60               67
Industry                           51              6.2            15                15
Services                           63            -5.4             25                18
Consumption                         350              5.7            100              100
Gross investment                    128             21.0             19               37
Export of goods and NFS              42             61.0              4               12
Import of goods and NFS             170             25.0             22               48
Composition of
merchandise trade (Z)
US$ million                (at current prices)
1977   1978   1979       1980    1977  1978  1979  1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports           9.0   12.0   35.2    30.5         100   100   100   100
Primary products            9.0   12.0   35.2    30.5         100   100   100   100
Manufactures                -       -       -        -          -      -      -      -
Merchandise imports                                  130.1      100   100   100   100
Foodgrains                                                     47    31    19    12
Petroleum products          6.v    3.(    9.)    12.9           9    11    10    10
Other                      28.0   44.0   67.3   102.0          44    58    71    78
1977        1978         1979        1980
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP deflator                                     -            -           8           45
Exchange rate (Kip per US$)                      2            4           4           10
External terms of trade (1977=100)             100           65          90           80
As a % of GDP
Millions of Kips                (at current prices)
1977    1978    1979       1980      1977  1978  1979  1980
Public Finance
Current revenue            82.4   105.7   268.0    748.2         3      4      8    14
Current expenditure    298.5   384.0   393.9  1,028.0    10    13    12    20
Deficit                 -216.1  -278.3  -125.9   -279.8          8    10       4      5
Capital expenditure    191.9   188.5   242.1    748.9            7      7      7    14
Foreign financing         357.3   431.0   354.4  1,032.7        12    15    11    20
1977        1978        1979         1980
Other Indicators
Real GDP growth rates (Z)                                    1           6           10
Energy consumption growth rates (Z)            25           33          13           43
Electricity export growth rates (Z)            13           25         250
Growth rate in the money supply                34           22          13           18
/a  Based on staff estimates in local currency and converted at an exchange rate
of Kip 15 to $1, a weighted average between the official exchange of Kip 10
to $1 and the free market rate of Kip 30 to $1.



- 23 -                              ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL, CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Million US$ at current prices)
Actual                        Projected
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   -1981   1982    1983
Balance of Payments
Merchandise (net)             -41.5  -55.0  -64.0  -59.1   -99.6  -59.3   -91.0  -110.0
Exports                       6.5    9.0   11.0   35.2    30.5   28.2    44.0    50.0
Imports                      48.0   64.0   75.0   94.3   130.1   87.5   135.0   160.0
(of Which petroleum
products)                  (3.8)  (6.0)  (8.0)  (8.8)  (12.9) (14.0)  (16.0)  (20.0)
Services (net)                -15.5  -20.0  -20.0  -25.0   -28.5  -20.4   -30.0   -35.0
Receipts                      4.5    3.5    6.5    7.9    11.1   14.5    15.5    21.0
Expenditures                 20.0   23.5   26.5   32.9    39.6   34.9    45.5    56.0
Current account balance       -57.0  -75.0  -84.0  -84.1  -128.1  -79.7  -121.0  -145.0
Capital and transfers          52.0   70.0   93.2   93.7   107.2   72.5   110.0   130.0
(of which commodity aid)  (15.0) (25.0) (30.0) (32.0)  (43.2) (15.3)    ()             (..)
Overall balance /a             -1.0   -4.8    7.6    6.6   -11.0   -7.2   -11.0   -15.0
Change in reserves             -2.8    4.8   -7.6   -6.6    11.0         ..
Gross reserves (end year)                 '                     9.0      ..
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed
(end of period)                         141.2    174.1    214.4    252.0    300.0
To international institutions           9.6      18.3     29.9      39.7
To bilateral donors                   127.6    163.2    196.8    223.2
Suppliers' credits                      4.0       3.4      3.0       3.0
Total debt service payments               2.2       3.1       3.3       2.5      3.7
Interest                                0.5       1.5      1.4       1.2       1.4
Debt services as % of exports              18        18         8         6         9
IBRD    IDA
IDA Lending, August 1981
outstanding and Disbursed                 -    9.4
Undisbursed                               -   22.6
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed             -   32.0



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1981)
Loan or                                               Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                Less cancellations
Number   Year  Borrower    Purpose              Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
760-LA   1978  Lao PDR       Agriculture           -      8.2          4.4
924-LA   1979  Lao PDR       Agriculture           -    10.4           4.6
1021-LA   1980  Lao PDR       Agriculture                 13.4         13.3
Total                                   -    32.0         22.3
of which has been repaid             -        -
Total now outstanding                   -    32.0
Amount sold
Total now held by Bank and IDA          -    32.0
Total undisbursed                       -    22.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None: Lao PDR is not a member of IFC



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of September 1, 1981)
Cr. No. 760-LA First Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project: $8.2 million; Credit of December 27, 1977;
Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Original and Current
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily although the
larger irrigation component is considerably behind schedule and may require
additional technical manpower to assist in design and implementation. The
pig multiplication and rice intensification components are proceeding
reasonably well.
Cr. No. 924-LA   Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project: $10.4 million; Credit of June 15, 1979;
Effective Date: October 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily and improvements in the
development of the National Seed Farm should enable the original schedule to
be met.  Installation of the irrigation scheme has been delayed due to the
fact that the number of new irrigation schemes taken on by the irrigation
department has far exceeded thE   capacity.  Construction work on the feed
grain farm is proceeding weli F         gh the agricultural program needs to be
accelerated to meet the original sc,tedule.
Cr. No. 1021-LA Third Agricult6:al Rehabilitation and Development
Project: $13.4 miillion; Credit of May 22, 1980;
Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Progress is being made with the Rice Mill Rehabilitation component
and the procurement process is well underway. Initial delays in hiring
experts for the Workshop Rehabilitation and Coffee Processing components
have resulted in limited progress on these two components, but all positions
have now been filled.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
LAOS PDR
NAM NGUM i1YDIROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  iotot  >ilulbus (3witzerland)
(c) First presented to the Bank: March 1980.
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: November, 1980
(e) Completion of Negotiations: November 13, 1981
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness -
Effectiveness of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement and execution
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and EDL
for onlending the proceeds of the IDA Credit (para. 43).
(b) Other Conditions
(i) The Government agreed:
to undertake studies of potential hydro projects and to
determine optimum strategy for the extension of power supply
with the assistance of consultants acceptable to IDA (para.
32); to review with IDA annually and progressively revise
electricity rates for local consumption (para. 33); to
relend proceeds of the Credit to EDL for 20 years, including
five years of grace at 11.6% interest per annum (para. 43);
and that any change in the Electric Energy Supply Agreement
between EDL and EGAT without prior IDA approval would be an
event of suspending the IDA Credit (para. 47).
(ii) EDL agreed: to sell electricity to Thailand under the
Electric Energy Supply Agreement (para. 47), to prepare and
implement a program to reduce distribution losses (para. 48),
and to establish a project implementation unit by March 31,
1982 (para. 54).



IBRD 15514 R
102'30'                                                              AUGUST 1981
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NAM NGUM
HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
* EXISTING POWER STATION
B. Hin Heup                                                   PROPOSED POWER STATION
B                                                             EXISTING 115 KV TRANSMISSION
l INES
U1 ,   ses                            - - -EXISTING 22 KV. TRANSMISSION
B Sen Xourn                                                          LINES
-      FUTURE 22 KV. TRANSMISSION
B.hi     NAMNUM .4M                                LINES
1B.Th0n KPr  *Hong        t                           SUBSTATIONS
18-30'                 Phon H    ong         w                                       RIVERS
LAO                                                  ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOrE NUMBERS INDICA TE YEAR OF
B~a So      PEOPLE'S                                    ElECTR/F/CAT/ON
B. Nopheng  DEMOCRATIC
tCT AC~~heng 
q     J                                 ~~~~~~~REPUBLIC
18000                                                                Brn
\~~~~ ~ ~ ~                            ~        ~        ~~~~~~~ B. N \  B.hGonny
This map has beon pre,o red by the      vA r
World Bonks staff oclsnrely for       56AKH        I
th coon~ncn of the read,,s of       THA r tuAdOU
the rapodl to which,tes ettacoed   SOKPAWLAANGEN
The denominations used end the
bond-e.. showrn on th,o mp                      /
do notemplty, osn the part of the n                             f AI
World Bank and to  WY't,ts anHAIAB
judgme'Int on the legal satus of       THA BO
ay tenitory or any andorsoen,ta
or acceptance of such boundaesas
102.30'
BuR MA 1@t/&;;   _                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   H      IL   a   N   D
BURMA
Ar voko mo 44)   VIET NAM                                                           N
) THAILAND  \                                    A              \
iDEMCRATI }                    bDONsrHeANI/ I     
(KAMPUCEj                 -1730'                          LIVONTHANI 2                           17'30'-
/)                                                               0        10        20       30 Km.
MALAYSIA                                               To Khonkc en          103'00'



