OFFICIAL       CREDIT NunER 197 LA
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Nan Ngua Hydroelectric Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1197 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                c=3          , 1982, between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A, B (a) and (c), C and D of the Project will be
carried out by Electricitf du Laos (hereinafter called EDL), a
state enterprise subject to the directives promulgated under the
Ministerial Resolution No. 217/P.M.O., dated May 27, 1980,
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to EDL part of the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Borrower has contracted from the OPEC Fund for
International Development a loan (hereinafter called the OPEC
Fund Loan) in an amount of four million dollars ($4,000,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund for Inter-
national Development, dated August 24, 1981;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
EDL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms d,afined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EDL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EDL pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all sr.hedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "EGAT" means the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand, a public corporation established under the Electricity
Generating Act, B.E. 2511, 1968, of the Kingdom of Thailand;
and
(d) "Electric Energy Supply Agreement" means the agreement
dated October 21, 1981 between EDL and EGAT and referred to in
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement, and such term includes all
schedules and all agreements supplemental to the Electric Energy
Supply Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawr from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services


﻿- 3 -
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate o'L three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1992 and ending
August 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B (b) of
the Project through the Directorate of Mechanics and Electric
Energy in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of the Borrower
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause EDL to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
EDL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit, equivalent to the amounts allocated to and withdrawn
under Categories (1), (2), (3) (a) and (4) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to EDL under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and EDL under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part B (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such
employment to be made in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) annually review with
the Association the rates for electricity consumption in Laos;
and (b) progressively revise said rates to reflect by March 31,
1985, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association may
agree, the long-run marginal cost of electricity supply.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) EDL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of EDL under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that EDL will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) any construction, sites or roads included in or serving
the carrying out of the Project shall have become inaccessible to
the representatives of the Association as required for efficient
supervision of the execution of the Project;
(d), the Electric Energy Supply Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the
prior approval of the Association;
(e) any decree or regulation regulating the organization and
operations of EDL shall have been enacted, amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of EDL to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EDL or for the suspension of its operations; and
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the OPEC Fund Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms providing therefor; or
(B) the OPEC Fund Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿-6-
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and EDL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) or
(g) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EDL; and
(b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement or initial disbursement under such
Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿-7-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by EDL, and is legally binding upon EDL in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EDL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EDL in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) that the Electric Energy Supply Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by EDL and EGAT, by all governmental
or corporate action and is legally binding upon EDL and EGAT in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 1                        , is hereby
specified for the purpose  of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designat,d as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of State for Finance
Ministry of Finance
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Vientiane


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Vientiane, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By15A              &
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Director, Country Pro ms Department
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Categpy                    SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment (supply            8,700,000          100% of for-
and installation)                              eign expendi-
and tools                                      tures.
(2) Civil works                    730,000          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(3) Consultants'                                    100% of for-
services:                                      eign expendi-
tures
(a) Part B (a)                750,000
and (c) of
the Project
(b) Part B (b)                470,000
of the
Project
(4) Training                       210,000     -    100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(5) Unallocated                  2,240,000
TOTAL            13,100,000


﻿-10-
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b, payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the :Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Power Plant
(a) Installation at the existing Nam Ngum Hydroelectric
Plant of: (i) a fifth turbine generator unit, with an
installed capacity of 40 MW, together with a short
penstock and an associated intake gate, and hoist
and trash racks; (ii) auxiliary equipment, including
standby heat exchanger; (iii) communication equipment;
and (iv) a step-up substation.
(b) Carrying out of civil works associated with Part A
(a).
Part B:   Consultants' Services
Provision of consultants' services for:
(a) engineering and supervision of Part A of the Project;
(b) carrying out of studies to: (i) evaluate potential
hydro-projects (excluding projects located on the Mekong
river); and (ii) extend power supply in Laos; and
(c) establishing a program to reduce electricity distribu-
tion losses.
Part C:   Equipment and Tools
Provision of equipment and tools, including accounting
machinery.
Part D:   Training
Provision of training for the staff of EDL.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the eal of the Ass ciation
thereunto the            day of
198
FOREUEARY


