Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC;AL USE ONLY
Report No. 6825
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1134-GR)
June 17, 1987
Educatior. and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O@lke of D00ekvCa4waI
Opwatitn fvawtatn
June 17, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  The Hellenic State (Greece)
Third Education Project (Loan 1134-GR)
Attached, fo: information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Complet!on Report: The Hellenic State (Greece) - Third
Education Project (Loan 1134-GR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East
and North Africa Regional Office. Under the modified system for project
performance auditing further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a stricted dictribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfor me
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwin be dislosed without World Bank authoriton.



FOR OMCIL US ONLY
GLOSSARY
CPU     Central Project Unit
DIEP    Directorate for Implementation of Education
Projects in tiOE
KATE    Higher Technical Education Center
KEME    Center for Educational Studies and Vocational
Education
MEO     Manpower Employment Organization in MOL
MNE     Ministry of National Economy
MOE      Ministry of National Education and Religious Affairs
MOL      Ministry of Labor
PIU      Project Implementation Unit in MEO
POSME    Pilot Multilateral Secondary School
SELIE    School for Advanced Trainivg of Secondary Education
Teachers and Officials
VTC      Vocational Training Center
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwie be discloed without World Bank authorization.



THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
TR1RD EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1134-GR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREACE*         ..a................... 1 o 
BAIC DATA SHEET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .. . . . .,.. *       .      . .     * ,   . * *  . * * * .  v
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . viii
I.  INTRODUCTION.*    .    .  .  .  .  .a .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II. PROJECTBACKGROUND . .......... ..........    3
Socio-Economic Setting.    ...............    3
Educational Issues and Development Strategy . . . . . .   4
Formulation of the Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
III.  E  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
The Composition of the Project. . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
The Project Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Project Items . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Modifications of the Project Content. . . . . . . . . .   8
IV.  PROJECT IMPLMWATION. ..,.......  . . .,,ea            .   ... 10
A. Educational Aspects .     ...............               10
Overview . . . . . . ..    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Multilateral Secondary Schools . . . . . . . . . .  10
Higher Technical Education Centers . . . . . . . .  14
Vocational Training Centers. . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Studies Included in the Project. . . . . . . . . .  18
Technic&l Assistance . . stane... .. . . . .   . ..   20



Table of Contents cont'd.
Page No.
B. Physical Aspects  .................. .                   21
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Desig  n   .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .    22
Maintenance.  ..........a........a ..a..................  23
Furniture and Equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Covenants.   . ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  23
Bank Performance ...................    24
Borrower Performance .  . . .. . . * . ... * .. .  25
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINAICING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Capital Cost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Unit Space Allocation per Student . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Unit Cost per Student Place ... ............ . . . .    27
Disbursements . . o * * * * *. . . . .o. . . . . . . . .  28
Outcomes.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Lessons Learned . . . . .  . . . . .   . . . . . ... . ..    30
TABLES
Table 1 Project Breakdown by Cost . .         . . . . . .   7 .   7
Table 2 Project Breakdown by Institution . . . . . . . . .   8
Table 3 Projected Capacity and Actual Enrollments
in Vocational Training Centers  . . . . . . .  17
Table 4 Estimated Project Costs by Category. . . . . . . .  26
Table 5 Estimated Area per Student Place . . . . . . . . .  27
Table 6 Estimated Cost per Student Place . . . . . . . . .  27
Table 7 Planned Disbursements and Actual Withdrawals . . .  28
Table 8 Estimated and Actual Disbursements by Category . .  29
CHARTS AND ANNEXES
Chart 1 Estimated and Actual Implementation and
Disbursements
Annex  i Implementation of Civil Works
Annex  2 Gross Floor Area
Annex  3 Project Costs in US$
Annex 4 Disbursements



MRJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECZ)
THIRD EDUCATION PRJECT
(LOAN 1134-GR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR), prepared by the
Education and Manpower Development Division, EMENA Region, for the Third
Education Project in Greece (Loan 1134-GR), for which a loan of US$45
million was extended to the Hellenic State in June 1976. The loan was
closed on September 30, 1984, after three extensions (December 31, 1981,
December 31, 1983 and September 1, 1984), and the books were held open to
process disbursements requests received through December 31, 1984 related
to contracts signed before September 1, 1984. In Nay 1984, at the
Government's request, US$8 million was cancelled from the loan amount,
representing the estimated amount of contracts which could not be financed
before the agreed latest date for the receipt of disbursement requests. As
of February 12, 1985, US$36.86 million was disbursed, 81.92 of the original
loan amount and 99.6% of the revised loan. The remainig balance of the
revised loan (0.42 or US$144,000) was cancelled.
In accordance w'th the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by ORD staff. The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower and its agencies for comients in January 1987.  No coments
have been received.



THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1134-GR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Key Project Data
Appraisal       Current
Item                                         Estimate        Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                      105.64         123.90 1/
Overrun (b)                                      - -              17.3t
Loan Amount (US$ million)                              45.00
Disbursed                                                         36.86
Cancelled in May 1984                            - -               8.00
Outstanding as of February 12, 1985 & cancelled                    0.14
Date Physical Components Completed                 09/79           07/87
Months Since Loan Signing                              51             145
Proportion Completed by Above Date (S)               1001           1001
Proportion of Time Overrun (1)                                      2841
Institutional Performance                           Good            Fair
i/  This allows for the cancellation of two institutions from the original
project, which would have reduced the appraisal estimated cost to about US
$99.61 million.
B. Other Prolect Data
Original
Item                                  Plan           Revisions      Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetables   10/72
Government's Application                02/73
Negotiations                                                             04/75
Board Approval                                                           06/75
Loan Agreement Date                                                      06/75
Effectiveness Date                      10/75            01/76
03/76          05/29/76
Closing Date                            12/80            12/81
12/83
09/84          09/84
Borrower                                The Hellenic State (Greece)
Executing Agency                        Central Project Unit, Ministry of
National Economy
Fiscal Year of Borrower                 January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project                       Education IV (Loan 1539-GR)



- iii -
C. Mission Data
Month/     Number       Number         Number of
Mission       Sent By         Year      of weeks   of persons      man-weeks
Identification  Bank/UNESCO  May/Jun 73       4.0           7              28.0
Reconnaissance  Bank          May 74          1.0           1               1.0
Appraisal       Bank          Jun/Jul 74      4.0     4 (a; e; ec;         16.0
te)           45.0
Supervision     Bank          May 76           1.5    2                     3.0
Supervision     Bank          Sep 76           1.0    2 (a; p)              2.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 77           0.4    1 (a)                 0.4
Supervision     Bank          Oct 77           0.4    1 (a)                 0.4
Supervision     Bank          Jan 78           1.0    1 (a)                 1.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 78           0.4    1 (a)                 0.4
Supervision     Bank          Aug 78           1.0    1 (a)                 2.0
Supervision     Bank          Jan 79           1.0    1 (a)                 1.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 79           1.5    2 (p; a)              3.0
Supervision     Bank          Dec 79           2.5    2 (te; a)             5.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 80           2.5    1 (a;a)               5.0
Supervision     Bank          Nov 80           1.0    2 (a; te)             2.0
Supervision     Bank          Ju.- 81          1.5    3 (a; a, te)          4.5
Supervision     Bank          Dec 81           1.5    2 (a; te)             3.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 82           1.0    1 (a)                 1.0
Superv  ion     Bank          Oct 82           1.5    2 (a; te)             3.0
Supervision     Bank          Sep.83           1.0    1 (a)                 1.0
Supervision     Bank          Jun 84           1.0    1 (a)                 1.0
Completion      Bank          Oct 84           1.5    3 (p; a; e)           4.5
Total                                     21.7                         38.7
a - architect                               ec - economist
e - general educator                        te - technical educator
p - education planner
D. Loan Allocation and Actual Disbursements
Original         Cancellation         Actual
Type of Expenditures          Allocation      of US$8.0 Million  Disbursements
(05/17/84)
- - -            US $ Million - - - - - - - -
Civil Works                    16.5                                 13.8
Furniture and Equipment       22.5                                  22.5
Technical Assistance            2.6                                  0.6
Unallocated                     3.4                                  0.0
TOTAL             45.0              37.0               36.9 1/
1/ Additional cancellation of US$144,309.81 effective as of February 12, 1985.



- iv -
E. Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                            Drachma (Dr.)
Appraisal Year (1974)                            US $ 1.00 a Dr.  30.00
Intervening Years Average                        US $ 1.00 = Dr.  86.32
Completion Year (FY 1985)                        US $ 1.00 = Dr. 120.00



- v -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1134-GRE
EVALUATION SUNNARY
Introduction
The Third Education Project (Loan 1134-GR In the amount of
US$45.0 million) was identified by UNESCO in May/June 1973, prepared by the
Government with Bank assistance, and appraised by the Bank In July 1974.
Total project cost was estimated at US$105.6 million, with the foreign
exchange cost at US$45.3 million equivalent (Staff Appraisal Rport No.
755-GR, dated Nay 2, 1975). Following Board approval on June 3, 1975, the
Loan Agreement was signod on June 27, 1975 and became effective on May 29,
1976, after three postponeaments. The project was originlly scheduled to
be completed towards the end of 1979 and the Closing Date was to be
December 31, 1980. However, due to delays arising from several complicated
problems, the Closing Date was extended three times, the lst and final
date being September 1, 1984. As a result of these delays, several project
items were modified or deleted.  When the last disbursemt ws" made and
the loan account was closed on February 12, 1985, a total of US$36.86
million had been disbursed and US$8.14 million cancelled.
Obiectives
Consonant with the country's 1973-87 Development Plan, the Third
Education Project (Education III) was Intended to a"sist the Govrnmeant's
continuing program to Improve and expand the education and training system
for rapid economic modernization through the expansion of skilled worker
and technician training capacities in priority subsectors of the economy
and reforms in secondary education. Specifically, the project would
provides
(a) Civil works, furniture and equipment fors
(i) five accelerated vocational training centers (VTCs);
(ii) three higher technical education centers (ZATEs)l and
(iii) ten pilot multilateral secondary schools (POSMEs);



- vi -
(b) Three feasibility studies on:
(i) a proposed Center for Pedagogical Studies;
(ii) a proposed development of the post-secondary education
system;
(iii) a proposed Educational Materials Production Unit; and
(e) Technical assistance for the implementation of the above.
Implementation EKwerience
The protracted implementation of this project was due initially
to a ten-month delay in ratification of the Loan Agreement by Parliament.
Contributing to Implementation delay was a weak project implementation
structure and diffused responsibility arisin8 from tardy appointment of
specialist staff to implement the project. It was only in 1980 that the
Government reinforced the Directorate for Implementation of Education
Projects (para. 4.49). Delay was also caused by problems in selection
and acquisition of sites, tie long-drawn process of selecting and
appointing consulting architects and design development (para. 4.36).
Construction of the new project institutions finally started from mid-
1981, six months after the original Closing Date. Changes in project
content included the deletion of the Kavala POSME and the Tripolis VTC,
the latter being substituted by two mobile training units; the VTC
apprentices' courses were extended from two to three years; diversified
secondary education was confined to grades 10-12 instead of including
grades 7-9, as originally planned; and a pre-investment study on a
proposed School for In-Service Training of Secondary School Teachers
(SET5ME) replaced the original study on the School of Education (Center
for Pedagogical Studies) (para. 3.04). In June 1985, actual
implementation was expected to take 12 years instead of the original four
and a quarter years estimated at appraisal. As a result of project
content changes, the cost of the revised project was estimated to be
US$99.6 million. By early 1985, all project components were completed
(13 of the 16 project institutions were in operation from September 1,
1984) except two institutions which are expected to be completed only in
1987. The Government would need about US$28 million, including US$9.4
million equivalent in foreign currency, to complete the project (para.
5.07).
Results
Despite changes in project content and delays in implementation,
a substantial proportion of the the major project objectives has been
achieved. The opening of 14 pilot secondary schools (POSMEs, which
included seven non-project institutions) in 1984-85 represented a major
step in the modernization of general secondary education. The new



- vii -
diversified curriculum, with its greater emphasis on science and
technology, is expected to erhance the performance of students who enter
post-secondary studies in science and technology and forge a closer link
between training and the labor market (paras. 4.04-4.05). The POSM8E are
staffed by experienced and qualified teachers and administrators (pars.
4.10).  The expansion of post-secondary technical education (KATEs)o
while contributing to a larger pool of trained manpower, Is also facing
strong competition from universities. This would suggest a need to
monitor employment prospects of graduates from the KATEs (para. 4.16).
In three of the four planned vocational training centers (VTCs) actual
enrollments in apprenticeship programs have exceeded capacity by 202.
Qualified and experienced administrators and instructors, using tracer
studies, adapt training to labor market demands. While provision was
made for 55 staff years of specialist services and 35 staff years of
fellowships, the implemented technical assistance program included only
13 staff years of specialist services and 112 staff years of fellowships.
The low utilization of specialist services was due to local resistance to
foreign specialists (paras. 4,34-4.35).
SustainaLility
No difficulties are anticipated for the project institutions in
budgetary support, a major factor in sustainability. The over-enrollment
of most of the project institutions suggests a popular demand for the
training programs which are responsive to the country9s manpower needs.
The Government seems fully committed to the restructured educational and
training programs, and this augurs well for longer-term sustainability.
Findings and Lessons
Experience under this tproject suggests the following lessons:
(a) At appraisal agreement should be reached with the Borrower
on the agencies responsible for project implementation and
the staffing of these agencies to avoid implementation
delays (para. 4.49);
(b) Where educational innovation through curriculum change is a
major objective, greater attention should be given to the
organization, management and staffing of software
development activities (paras. 4.03-4.06; 4.09;
(c) Technical assistance in the form of foreign specialist
services should not be included unless specifically agreed
to by the Borrower at appraisal (paras. 4.34-4.35).



- viii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1134-GR)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Samunrr
1.      A Bank Loan (Loan 1134-GR) for US$45.0 million was extended to the
Hellenic State (Greece) in 1975 to assist the government's continuing program
to improve and expand its education and training system, in particular to
improve the relevance and quality of general secondary education, and to
expand technician training in the context of rapid modernization of the
economy and vocational and technical education in order to meet the growing
demand of skilled workers.
2.       The loan provided financing for the construction and equipping of:
(a) ten pilot multilateral secondary schools (POSMEs); (b) three higher
technical education centers (KATEs) as an extension of similar institutions
financed under the First Education Project (Loan 1ll-GR) (para. 4.13); and
(c) five accelerated vocational training centers (VTCs) as an extension of
eight similar centers financed under the Second Education Project (Loan
859-GR) (para. 4.19). The loan supported a further innovation in the Greek
education system by including assistance to improve quality and relevance of
secondary education through pilot multilateral secondary schools. These
schools were to combine, in the same premises, a lower secondary school
(grades 7 to 9), a general and a technical upper secondary school (grades 10
to 12). The goal was to promote a different school environment by introducing
a revision of the curriculum, the promotion of new teaching methods, and the
introduction of new school management practices. Most importantly, the
project aimed at a change in teachers, parents and students' attitudes toward
scientific and technical education (para. 4.03). For the KATEs, the loan
provided assistance in the development of new specializations, and for the
training and upgrading of teachers for the new specializations (para. 4.14).
For the VTCs, the loan provided assistance for the extension of accelerated
vocational training programs to unemployed adults in addition to
apprenticeship programs. In addition, the loan included financing of three
feasibility studies: (a) a study of a Center of Pedagogical Studies; (b) a
post-secondary education system development study; and (c) a study of an
Education Materials Production Unit. Finally, the loan provided financing for
TA related to project implementation. A total of 18 institutions were
involved in the project. However, this figure was reduced to 16 during the
life of the project due to the deletion of Tripolis VTC and Kavala POSME
(para. 3.04).
3.       The project had three extensions to the closing date and, at the time
of completion mission, 13 project institutions were in operation: three fully
completed and 10 in partially completed schools (POSMEs) (ps .a. 4.04) or in
temporary facilities (KATEs) (para. 4.13), with some shortages of workshop and
laboratory equipment. Completion of remaining works and equipment delivery is
expected by the end of 1985 for all schools, with the exception of
construction of Kavala KATE and Kalamata POSME expected by mid-1987.
Enrollments at the beginning of academic year 1984-85 stood at 2,483 in



- ix -
POSMEs, 4,162 in KATEs and 656 in VTCs compared to appraisal projected
enrollments of 17,450, 3,960 and 930, respectively. The implemented TA
program included nearly 13 staff-years of specialist services in the
preparation of equipment lists for KATEs and the preparation of the
post-secondary Education System Development Study, and 112 staff-years of
fellowships for ungrading KATES and POSMEs staff. Of the US$37.0 million
available under the loan (after a cancellation of US$8.0 million in May 1984),
US$36.9 million or 99.6% of the revised loan proceeds was disbursed as of
February 12, 1985.
4.       At appraisal in 1974, a growing awareness of the need to adapt the
education system to a changing economy and society was developing in reaction
to a prior emphasis on traditional, classical education at all levels. The
socio-economic goals in the 1973-1987 Development Plan included in priority
the need to increase industrial productivity in order to improve the economy's
competitive position vis-a-vis the EEC, and to redistribute manpower from
industry. Thus, it was imperative to expand vocational training and technical
education at secondary and post-secondary levels, and to adapt curriculum to
requirements of the changing economy and society. In that regard, the
following measures were envisaged by the Government: (a) further curriculum
diversification at the secondary level, with more emphasis on mathematics,
science and technical courses; (b) rapid growth and regionalization of
post-secondary technician training; and (c) expansion of vocational training
with continuing reform of the apprenticeship systems and increased
opportunities for accelerated vocational training of adults. The objectives
and content of this third Bank-financed education project conform very closely
to these national priorities.
5.       Actual implementation of all project institutions is now expected to
take 12 years, as compared to 4-1/4 years estimated at appraisal. The main
reasons for the serious implementation delays were:
(a) inordinate delays (5 years) in obtaining the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) approval and final assignment of sites to project institutions
attributable to lengthy procedures in obtaining MPW approval on
zoning and final assignment (para. 4.37);
(b) the unduly long process (5 years) of design development in particular
for the selection of architects, and the neceasity to revise the
designs in accordance with unanticipated new government regulations
(para. 4.38);
(c) the tardiness (4 1/2 years) in the preparation of equipment lists due
to administrative problems in setting up committees and providing
remuneration to committees' members, and inexperience in preparing
equipment lists for specialized equipment related to new
technologies. As a result, equipment procurement only took place
during the last twelve months before the closing date (para. 4.42).



x 
Multilateral Secondary Schools
6.       A major original objective of the project, the qualitative
improvement of secondary education through the support of multilateral
secondary school (POSMEs) designed to reduce the bias toward classical studies
and open up the curriculum to science and technology, materialized for the
academic year 1984-85 with the opening of seven project POSMEs and seven
non-project POSMEs for a total of 14 multilateral secondary schools. The
project schools, although differing from the multilateral school concept at
appraisal, are in line with the objectives set at appraisal. At appraisal, it
was foreseen that there would be two distinct streams at upper secondary level
following a common program at lower secondary level, both programs being
housed in the same school. At present, the project schools offer a
diversified program at upper secondary level only (Grades 10 to 12)
because the lower secondary program is now integrated into the basic education
program (Grades 1-9)(para. 4.04). The new diversified curriculum as designed
will represent a major step in the modernization of general secondary
education. Its emphasis on modern technology and the introduction of
technological streams should certainly reduce the academic bias in
post-secondary studies and enhance the performance of students who enter
post-secondary studies in technology-related and scientific fields. Moreover,
the curriculum offers more flexibility in subject choices, thus adapting
programs to changes in technology and labor market (para. 4.05). Starting
with Grade 10 during academic year 1984-85, these schools introduced new
subjects, a revised curriculum, and new teaching methods (para. 4.05). The
project schools are staffed with experienced and qualified teachers and
administrators (para. 4.10).
7.       In the new project schools, more students expect to continue their
studies than were foreseen at appraisal (para. 4.07). While industrialization
and expansion of the services sector will require a :iigher level of general
education, it is unrealistic to think that most secondary school graduates
will continue their studies. In the absence of detailed manpower data
attention needs to be given by the MOE to tracer studies for secondary school
graduates and liaison between the planning unit in MOE and the ministries
responsible for planning, labor and employment (para. 4.07).
8.       A Task Force headed by a senior advisor to the Minister of Education
was belatedly created in 1981 to promote the establishment and operation of
the project schools. While it has developed close collaboration within MOE,
it must give urgent attention to major tasks such as curriculum development
for Grades 11 and 12 (para. 4.09), staffing for the forthcoming years (para.
4.10), and monitoring of the program (para.4.12):
(i)     the development of textbooks, teaching methods and examinations
for the complete curriculum and, more specifically, for the new
specializations to be offered. A full-time coordinator should
be appointed in the Task Force to coordinate specialized
committees in charge of curriculum revision, dissemination of
teaching methods and materials, and in-service training of
teachers.



- xi
(ii)     monitoring and evaluation through competent research services.
Research services within MOE, currently undergoing restructuring
and reorganization, are expected to provide assistance to the
Task Force. A qualified evaluation specialist should be
appointed to the Task Force.
(iii)     finally, staffing requires close supervision through the
appointment of a full-time teacher training specialist to the
Task Force. In-service training for school administrators
should be reinforced in areas such as pedagogical supervision,
guidance counselling and school management to support
pedagogical innovation, assessment of students and vocational
information, and staff de-velopment.
Higher Technical Education Centers (KATEs)
9.       In line with widespread social acceptance of KATEs introduced in 1973
with the assistance provided in the First Education Project, enrollments in
the three project institutions are higher than the projected appraisal figures
(para. 4.13). Operating in temporary premises, the project KATEs offer three
basic specializations. With the opening of the new facilities (in 1985-86 for
Chalkis and Kozani, and in 1987-88 for Kavala KATE), it is expected that all
but one of the six new specializations will be offered (para. 4.14). Although
teaching staff to students ratios are acceptable, the ratio of full-time to
temporary contractual teaching staff (mainly university graduates lacking
industrial experience) has been maintained to a very low 1 to 5. More
attention will need to be given by MOE in providing budget for recruitment of
full-time teaching staff and training programs involving some exposure to
industry for recent graduates (para. 4.15). The employment prospects for
graduates of the KATEs have been good. However, in view of the growing
enrollments in KATEs and indications that ir some areas such as engineering
there is a strong competition from universities, the mission reiterated the
importance of conducting analyses of the employment of graduates through the
appointment of placement officers in KATEs (para. 4.16). In addition, there
is a need for MOE to provide strong technical support in manpower analysis and
educational planning to the proposed Council of Technological Education (para.
4.16).
10.      Vocational TraininR Centers.  With the extension of universal
compulsory education to include Grades 1 through 9, academic prerequisites for
the appprenticeship and accelerated training programs were raised from Grade 6
to Grade 9, and programs revised accordingly. An innovative feature is the
upgrading of candidates who have not completed Grade 9, through short
intensive remedial programs. In the three of four planned VTCs, the actual
enrollments in apprenticeship programs exceed projected capacity by 201, while
they reached, at Kozani and Komotini, 331 and 44% of projectd targets for
accelerated training programs (para. 4.20). One of the most interesting
features of VTCs is their response to local needs through annual surveys of



- xii -
manpower and training needs conducted at each VTC. Moreover,, in each center,
staff follow developments in the labor market and, through simple
questionnaires, trace the adequacy of training and the employment prospects of
their graduates (para. 4.21). Administrators and instructors are qualified
and experienced in both teaching and industrial work.
Outcomes
ili     Although the project institutions are operating under difficulties
(outstanding works; delayed equipment delivery) resulting from long delays in
site acquisition (para. 4.37), finalization of designs (para. 4.38) and
preparation of equipment of equipment lists (para. 4.42), the major objectives
of the project have been considerably achieved. The opening of pilot
secondary schools (POSMES) in 1984-85 represents a major step in the
modernization of general secondary education. The new diversified curriculum
is expected to reduce the academic bias in post-secondary education, to
enhance the performance of students who enter post-secondary studies in
technology-related and scientific fields, and to permit flexibility in
adapting programs to changes in technology and labor market (para. 4.05). The
expansion of post-secondary technical education (KATEs) and vocational
training (VTCs), in line with the assistance provided in the First and Second
Education Project, is expected to contribute further to the provision of
qualified manpower to requirements of the developing economy (paras. 4.14 and
4.18).
Lessons Learned
12.      The delays in project implementation and slow disbursements reflect
broader issues related to slow decision making, inadequate staffing of the
implementing agency, and to the protracted and complex procedures for
selecting architects to prepare designs. These procedures should have been
specified and agreed during appraisal. This experience underscores the
desirability to clarify project responsibilities at appraisal and to staff
adequately the implementation unit with sufficient number of specialists to
coordinate the design and implementation of physical aspects (para. 4.49).
Many of the problems encountered during early implementation stage were
later resolved as a result of the constructive dialogue between Bank
supervision missions and successive CIR missions. In that respect, the
importance of the technical assistance provided by supervision and CIR
missions - in preparing detailed schedules of implementation and action plans
- cannot be overstated (para. 4.45).
13.      The fact that the new diversified upper secondary curriculum is being
introduced two years behind schedule (only grade 10 has been completed)
underlines the need to pay as much attention to the organization, management,
staffing of software development activities as to physical implementation.
While it is laudable that a task force has now been established, most of the
work - textbooks, teaching methods, examinations, evaluation and teacher



- xiii -
training and upgrading - should have been started early and carried out in
parallel to the implementation of the physical components. Most importantly,
new curricula could have been field-tested in selected, existing secondary
schools. Similarly, a comparative evaluation of the educational im)act and
external efficiency (para. 4.07) of the academic high schools and the
multilateral schools should have been designed earlier so that survey work
could have been started in the first year of the new curriculum's application
(1984/85) (para. 5.09).
_ _ u-  -                                           S*PSWW-



THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1134-GR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    A mission comprising Messrs. D. C. Viens (education planner, mission
leader), R. Go (architect) and A. Kouros (general educator, consultant)
visited Greece from October 22 to November 7, 1984.
1.02    The First Bank Education Project (Loan 711-GT) introduced the concept
of a diploma level, multi-disciplinary technical institution (KATE) offering
specialized instruction in agriculture, business, engineering, food processing
and health sectors. This project was innovative and the concept of the KATEs
has caught on so strongly that there is an overwhelming student demand for
entry into these institutions. Extension of the KATE program was further
assisted by the Third and Fourth Projects.
1.03     The Second Education Project (Loan 859-GR), provided assistance in
expanding training capacity for skilled workers and technicians in the
following sectors: agriculture, industry, the merchant marine, and tourism.
An additional important objective was to support the country's efforts to
introduce wide-ranging educational reforms of the primary teacher-training
system, and the university system. The Fourth Education Project (Loan
1539-GR) for which a loan was extended in April 1978 and cancelled (without
disbursement) in DecembDer 19829 had been intended to support the introduction
of a new concept for Greece, that of a combined technical (Grades 10 to 12)
lyceum and vocational school (Grade 10 - 11) (KETE), and to extend Bank's
support for additional post-secondary technician training institutes (KATEs).
The project was also designed to assist with advanced training of secondary
education teachers and administrators training center (SEIME).
1.04     The Third Education Project (Loan 1134-GR) introduced a major change
at the secondary level (Grades 7 to 12) by providing midtilateral secondary
schools (P0SME). In addition, the project complemented the First and Second
Education Projects by providing additional training facilities at technician
(KATEs) and skilled workers (VTCs) levels. The three education projects
contributed, each to its own extent, to major educational reform measures
identified at the beginning of Bank's operations in the education sector in
Greece.
1.05     This PCR concentrates on the assistance to secondary education
component because the pilot multilateral secondary schoo's were both
innovative in providing needed reforms to the traditionally academic secondary
schools, and in adapting programs to the needs and aspirations of a modern
industrialized society. This component represents about 602 of all project
institutions and more than 50% of total project costs.



-2-
1.06     Thirteen of the sixteen project institutions are operating although
some works are outstanding and equipment remains to be delivered in some
caes. Seven of the nine multilateral secondary schools (one institution was
deleted from the project in November 1982) have been in operation since
September 1984. Completion of outstanding works and equipment delivery is
expected by Mid-1985, while the two remaining schools will begin to operate in
1987. The three Higher Technical Education Centers (IATZs) are under
construction but operate in temporary premises; completion of construction is
expected in 1985 for two and in 1987 for one. Three of the !our Vocational
Training Centers (VTC) are completed and in operation, the remaining one to be
completed in early 1985. At appraisal, the project was to finance renovation
of Tripolis VTC for a total estimated cost of US$0.68 million, or an estimated
reimbursement of US$0.31 million. In May 1978, the Government requested, and
the Bank agreed, to delete this institution from the project and to replace it
by two mobile training units similar to those provided by the Second Education
Project.
1.07     The mission visited 4 POSM&.9, 2 KATEs and 2 VTCs in different parts
of the country.  The mission also visited non-project institutions comparable
to those in the project. Discussions were held with the headmasters, teachers
and students. In addition, the mission seught from senior government
officials in various ministries, and from the project implementation units
(DIEP in WOE and PIU In MEO)9 their views on the project, its objectives, the
course of its implementation, apparent and potential resulta, and further
issues which might arise. The Ministry of National Economy's Directorate of
Special Investments and Technical Cooperation and PIUs were particuiarly
belpful it organizing meetings, securing necessary data and information, and
handling field trip arrangements.
-.-XA                          



-3-
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
2.01    Greece has experienced during the last two decades rapid economic
growth averaging 7.82 p.a. during the 1960's and 92 p.a. during the 1970'8.
As a result of this economic expansion together with low population growth
(averaging 0.72 p.a.) and urbanization (rural population dropping from 24X in
1961 to 152 in 1973), the structure of the economy shifted from agriculture to
industry and services as the leading growth sectors. The 1968-1972
Development Plan and the subsequent 1973-1987 Development Plan stressed the
following socio-economic developmenlt goals which have direct implication on
the education and training sector: (i) rapid increase in industrial
productivity to improve the economy's competitive positon vis4--vis the EEC,
which implied improved skills and understanding of the role of technology and
science in a developing economy; (ii) manpower redistribution from low
(agricultural) to high (industrial) productivity jobs; and (iii) reversal of
the decline in the total labor force through appropriate immigration and
training policies.
Educational Issues and Development Strategy
2.02    At the time of appraisal, the education system was well developed
with universal enrollment in primary education, 72S of the relevant age group
attending secondary schools mainly in lower secondary (Grades 7 to 9), and 11l
in higher education. Nonetheless, qualitative weaknesses were marked.
Growing awareness of the need to adapt the educat4Rn system to a changing
economy and society led to a reaction to the over-emphasis in traditional,
classical education on arts and letters. This emphasis was particularly
strong in the traditional academic secondary schools and the resulting
academic bias in higher education where law, political sciences and letters
absorbed more than 402 of university enrollments. It became imperative to
expand and integrate technical education and vocational training at secondary
and post-secondary levels, and to adapt curriculum to requirements of the
developing economy.
2.03    The Development Plan 1973-)n87 provided broad gaidelines for
educational reform. At the time of appraisal, the following measures were
envisaged by the Government in that direction:
(i)     extension of universal compulsory education to include
grades 1 through 9 (enforced in 1976);
(ii)     continuing reform of the apprenticeship system and
increased opportunities for accelerated vocational training
of adults;
(iii)     further curriculum diversification at the secondary level -
multilateral schools (P0ME09), with more emphasis on
mathematics, science and technical courses, and with
parallel expansion of vocational training - the VTCs 1/;
1/ Accompanied by a phasing-out of lower vocational schools (grades 7-9)



-4-
(iv) rapid growth and regionalization of post-secondary technician
training - the KATEs; and
(v) controlled expansion of intake into universities with
reorientation of enrollments toward science and technology.
Formulation of the Project
2.04     In May/June 1973, a UNESCO Reconnaissance-in-Depth (RID) mission
identified possible programs and project items in the context of the
Development Plan 1973-1987, for possible Bank financing. These included
Higher Technical Education Centers (KATEs), accelerated training centers for
adults, centralized workshops and laboratory facilities, pre-primary teacher
colleges, expansion and modernization of the Athens Polytechnic, a
pre-investment study for post-secondary and university education, and training
of education planning and curriculum development personnel. The Bank
believed, however, that the diversification of secondary education should be
emphasized and that the other components should be limited to manpower
development programs already supported by the Bank: technician training and
adult vocational training. Following a Bank reconnaissance mission in May
1974, the Government and the Bank agreed to introduce the multilateral
secondary school (POSME) and create a School of Education for the training of
secondary school teachers. In addition, the proposed project was to assist in
expanding the network of vocational training centers and the KATEs, as well as
a science equipment production center. Finally, the proposed project was to
include a pre-investment study of the need for university expansion. The
project was subsequently prepared and appraised by a Bank mission in June/July
1974.
_ _ g _X_ _ _ _



-5-
III.   THE PROJECT
The Composition of the Project
3.01    As appraised, the project was designed to assist in improving the
relevance and quality of secondary education, to expand technician and skilled
worker training programs and facilities of both the Ministry of Education
(NOE) and the Ministry of Labor (MOL) and to support three studies related to
teachers training, post-secondary development perspectives and educational
aids production. Specifically, the project consisted of:
1. Design, construction, furnishing and equipment of:
(a)    ten multilateral secondary schools (POSMEs) for 17,450 student
places to improve the relevance and quality of secondary
education;
(b)    three higher technician training institutes (KATEs) for 3,960
student places (with about 1,200 boarding places) to provide
post-secondary technician training; and
(c)    five accelerated vocational training centers (VTCs) for 930
new student places (with about 590 boarding places) to provide
trade training courses to apprentices and adults.
2. Promotion of the multilateral school through:
(a)    development of detailed curricula and syllabi;
(b)    training of school principals and administrators;
(c)    in-service training of the teaching staff prior to employment;
and
(d)    development and introduction of an evaluation system for the
assessment of the multilateral schools in comparison with
other secondary schools.
3. A training program for administrators, teachers and other staff of
the project institutions.
4. Feasibility studies for:
(a)    a School of Education to be designated by the Borrower;
(b)    post-secondary education systee development; and
(c)    the expansion of the Borrower's education materials production
unit.



-6-
The Prolect Objectives
3.02     The specific objectives were to:
(a)    assist the government in testing new forms of secondary
education by providing a pilot secondary school in each of the
ten school districts which, through its diversified curricula,
would serve better the educational and career needs of
students;
(b)    help alleviate the shortage of senior technicians in all
sectors of the economy through new post-secondary
technological institutions in regions experiencing increased
industrialization;
(c)    support the government policy on training apprentices and
unemployed adults in vocational skills applicable to the
regions where the training centers would be established, thus
promoting employment opportunities and also regional
industrial development;
(d)    provide support, through technical assistance, for:
(i)    curriculum development and staff training and upgrading of the
project multilateral secondary schools and post-secondary
technological. institutions; and
(ii)   preparation of three studies concerned with: (1) a School of
Education aimed at modernizing teaching at the secondary level
and promoting educational research; (2) the development of the
whole post-secondary system (universities and other
institutions) in an integrated manner to better serve the
manpower requirements of the economy; and (3) the feasibility
of expanding the Education Materials Production Unit of the
MOE to produce locally educational learning materials at
competitive prices.
Project Items
3.03     In line with the objectives and background outlined above, the
project items by cost and by type of institutions are outlined in the
following Tables 1 and 2.



Table i: Prginet Breakdn ly Cost at AARCA4jg
Type of Institution               OR Mi1]                    USls  $ I. t ni.l..OBs
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign   Total  line costs
Ten multilateral secon-
dary schools            686.3    484.5 1,170.8       22.9      16.1    39.0        81.8
Three higher technical
education cetOters      341.3    341.9   683.2       11.4      11.4    22.8        30.2
Five accelerated training
centers                 109.7      94.9   204.6       3.6       3.2     6.8         9.1
Consultant architects'
services                118.4       0.0   118.4       4.0       0.0     4.0         5.2
Pre-investment study -
Center for peda-
gogical studies           3.0       6.0     9.0       0.1       0.2     0.3         0.4
Post-secondary education
System development
study                     3.0      12.0    15.0       0.1       0.4     0.5         0.7
Feasibility studY of edu-
cation material pro-
duction unit              0.7       2.9     3.6       0.0       0.1     0.1         0.2
Technical assistance            1i.a      La 2    F.                  14 L.4              24
Base Line Cost              1.27S.2    985.4 aL2IL.f        M2A      IL.A    24.        1.0
Contingencies                 UL.$    375.     n3.u4       .Z..A    ILA      104         40.3
Total Project Cost          1.808.5  1.3607 1 .10.2    fiD.I         9Au    lDS.



-8-
Table 2: Project Breakdown bj Tppe of Institution at Apgraisal
Institutions                    Annual    Annual  New Student   Student
Grade    Enrollment  Output    Places      Boardinag
Ten pilot multilateral
secondary schools         7-12      17,450     2,900    17,450           -
Three higher technical
education centers        13-15       3,960     1,500      3,960       1,200
Five accelerated
training centers      ungraded       1,380     19400        930         590
Modifications of the Project Content
3.04     The following modifications, which took place during the long project
implementation, have not effected the main objectives of the project:
(i) The Tripolis VTC, which was inclttded in the project for
renovation only, was deleted (5/26/78) due to difficulties
related to the ownership of the V1X site. Instead, the Bank
agreed to finance two mobile training units to be used for the
teaching of skills and trades to young people and adults in
small, remote communities;
(ii) The Kavala multilateral secondary school was deleted
(12/27/82), due to serious problems of site acquisition. This
item will be completed by the Borrower;
(iii) The length of the apprentices' courses at VTC was increased
from two to three years - program content could be expanded
because of the higher entry level of trainees (grade 9
completion);
(iv) The expansion of compulsory general education from 6 to 9 years
(1976), made unnecessary the inclusion of the former lower
cycle of secondary education (grades 7-9) into the diversified
secondary schools, which were limited to the upper level
(grades 10-12); this almost doubled th& student places at that
level;
(v)   A study for the establishment of a School for In-Service
Training of Secondary School Teachers (SELIE) was substituted,
with Bank approval, for the pre-investment study on the School
of Education;



-9-
(vi) Modifications of TA were requested and approved from time to
time, but they neither affected the main focus of TA nor its
initial allocation; and
(vii) New administrative arrangements for project implementation were
introduced starting in January 1978 to strengthen the services
and widen the responsibilities of MOE and MEO for a more
efficient implementation of their institutions.



-10-
IV PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Educational Aspects
Overview
4.01     The main objectives of the Third Education Project were to reinforce
the system of vocational training and technical education to help meet the
growing manpower requirements of the economy, and also to take a first step
towards much needed reforms at the secondary level and further changes in
higher education. Notwithstanding the considerable delays, which are still
affecting the normal operation of the project institutions, the major
objectives of the project have been achieved, and, moreover, in a form which is
in accord with the ccuntry's present economic, social and educational
developments. Two of the institutions promoted by the project, the Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs) and the higher technical education centers (KATEs),
had already been supported by previous education projects. However, the VTCs
implemented by the third education project are an upgraded version of the
institutions supported by the appraisal; due to the extension of compulsory
education to 9 years, the two-year course of VTC (grades 7-8) has been
replaced by a three-year post-grade 9 course, an arrangement which is expected
to better serve the country's requirements in skilled workers and craftsmen.
But the most innovative component of the project is the POSMEs, which, in
contrast to the traditionally academic secondary school, has been designed,
through diversification of its curriculum, to provide a new form of secondary
education more relevant to the needs and aspirations of the members of a
modern, industrialised society.
Multilateral Secondary Schools (POSMEs)
4.02     Although quantitatively well developed, the formal education system
at secondary level suffered from serious weaknesses. At the time of
appraisal, general secondary education was offered in Gymnasia through a
two-cycle curriculum (lower secondary cycle, Grades 7 to 9 and upper secondary
cycle, Grades 10 to 12). It was felt that with a large part of the program
dedicated to Ancient Greek, literature and arts (up to 271 of the weekly
schedule), there was too strong a classical bias in studies affecting both
choices for further education and for school leavers. Enrollments in arts and
letters, law and political sciences represented 401 of total enrollments in
universities, reflecting this bias in secondary schooling. Moreover.
secondary school leavers had no preparation for active life and it was
difficult for them to reorient in technical education. Vocational training
(Grades 7 and 8) as well as technical education (grades 7 to 12) was offered
in separate Lower Vocational Schools and in Middle Vocational Schools, less
attractive in general to students than the gymnasium. In the latter,
curriculum at Grades 7, 8 and 9 included specialized technical subjects, thus
forcing early career choices and preventing transfers among streams. These
structural weaknesses in the formal education system were recognized by the
Greek Government and the Bank. The May 1971 identification mission for the
Second Education Project concluded that a major component of education



-11-
strategy should be the introduction of multilateral secondary schools.
Howner, during the appraisal of the second project, MOE officials felt that
opposition was still too strong and decided not to request the Bank to finance
these schools. Subsequently, in view of the growing concern to adapt the
education system to the emerging industrialization, the Government and the
Bank agreed to introduce in the Third Education Project a new form of
secondary education.
4.03     The Mt'ltilateral School Concept.  The project included assistance to
Improve quality and relevance of secondary education by combining, in the same
premises, lover secondary school (grades 7 to 9), a general and a technical
secondary school (grades 10 to 12), and by offering a new curriculum in ten
multilateral secondary schools. At the lower secondary level, these schools
were to offer a common core program while introducing orientation technology
courses and practical work for 3 periods or 8b of the weekly schedule in each
of the three grades. At the upper secondary level, a multilateral program was
to be offered, comprising a diversified general stream (arts, sciences and
economics) and three technical streams (construction, mechani"s and
electricity). In the general stream, the new curriculum was to de-emphasize
classical studies and to increase the hours devoted to foreign language,
social sciences, mathematics and natural sciences by an average of 12% among
the three streams to, respectively, about 15, 19 and 9 hours per week. In the
technical stream, the curriculum was to be revised and adapted to a
three-year program. At the completion of Grade 9, an estimated 602 of
students would enter the general stream, the remaining 40S the technical
streams. Among the projected 1,650 graduates from the general program, it was
expected that 80% would enter university and 20% the post-secondary
institutions. The majority of the technical 1,190 graduates would enter the
labor market, while an estimated 10% would enter the Higher Technician
Training Centers (KATEs). The school would be administered by a director
general, assisted by two principals, one for the general program and one for
the technical program. The director general would coordinate teaching staff
assignments as well as the use of common facilities, including workshops.
Thus, the goal wac to promote a different school environment by introducing a
revision of the curriculum, the promotion of new teaching methods, and the
Introduction of Pew management practices (scheduling and resources
allocation). Most importantly, the project aimed at a change in teachers,
parents and students' attitudes toward scientific and technical education.
4.04     Due to delays in project implementation (paras. 4.36), seven out of
nine project schools started operation in October 1984, five years behind
",araisal schedule. The Kavala project school was deleted on December 1982
due to serious site problems. The remaining two project schools at Chania and
Kalamata for which construction was 801 and 171 completed in October 1984, are
expected to start enrollments for academic year 1985-86 and 1987-88
respectively. In addition to these, seven non-project pilot schools started
operation in October 1984, for a total of 14 new schools. At the time of
completion, the project schools offer a diversified program at upper secondary
level only (Grades 10 to 12) leading to post-secondary education. Grades 7, 8
and 9 are now integrated in the basic education program. The new diversified



-12-
program offers a combined academic and vocational program and although
students gain greater exposure to specialized skills and technical knowledge,
most graduates expect to continue their studies in the universities and in the
higher technical education institutes (KATEs). For those not choosing formal
university-level programs, the MOE plans to develop a one-year specialized
program (following Grade 12) preparing graduates for the labor market.
4.05     The mission visited four of the seven project schools and discussed
with MOE officials the new program. The diversified program is in line with
the objectives set at appraisal. Major curriculum innovations are: the
introduction of two new subjects (Technology and Economics), and elective
subjects (agriculture and biotechnology). In addition, curriculum for the
remaining subjects have been revised and new methods of teaching developed
from existing textbooks. The first year students (Grade 10) in the seven
project schools numbered 2,483, out of which 49S are girls. They represent
56% of the total enrollments in the 14 experimental schools, and altogether an
estimated 4% of total enrollments in Grade 10 in 1984-85. At that grade,
students pursue a common core curriculum with 3 weekly periods out of 34 for
elective subjects. Starting in Grade 11, the diversified curriculum is to
include six different streams of study, namely: (i) social sciences; (ii)
health and physical sciences; (iii) economics; (iv) technology; (v)
electricity/electronics; and (vi) chemistry. In Grade 12, further
specialization will be introduced in each stream and students are to select
one of the two or three branches of study in the stream already selected in
the previous grade. For example, in the health and physical sciences stream,
the two branches are biology and medical laboratories; in technology,
construction technology, mechanical technology and architecture. Specialized
subjects account for 531 and 592 of the weekly schedule in Grades 11 and 12
respectively. The remaining core program includes subjects such as social
studies, modern Greek, foreign languages and new subjects such as introduction
to computers and study of the environment.
4.06     The new diversified curriculum once fully implemented will represent
a major step in the modernization of general secondary education. Moreover,
the curriculum offers more flexibility in subject choices, thus adapting
programs to changes in technology and labor market. Nevertheless, specific
attention needs to be given by MOE to the development of appropriate
occupational information activities addressed to students and their parents,
and tracer systems for graduates of the pilot schools.
4.07     The MOE expects a high percentage of graduates generally to pursue
higher technician training. In the project schools also, at least 401 of the
students expect to continue their studies compared to the 20% anticipated at
appraisal. However, while industrialization and expansion of the services
sector will both require a higher level of general education, it is
unrealistic to think that most secondary school graduates will continue their
studies. For example, though 40% of secondary school graduates of 1983-84
were admitted in universities and KATEs at the beginning of academic year
1984-85, the remaining 601 entered the job market, often without adequate
preparation. In the absence of adequate data on external efficiency, the MOE
should give priority to tracer studies of secondary school graduates and to
establishing liaison between the responsible planning unit in the MOE and the
ministries responsible for manpower planning, labor and employment.



-13-
4.08     Implementation.  A Task Force headed by a senior advisor to the
Minister of Education was created in 1981 to promote the establishment and
operation of the pilot secondary schools. Chaired by a full-time coordinator,
the Task Force comprises 15 part-time representatives from MOE directorates,
school inspectorates, DIEP, KEME, and external specialists. Achievements in
the start-up phase reflect a close collaboration among the parties involved,
mainly on a voluntary basis. However, there are still major tasks to be
completed in curriculum development (para. 4.09), in staffing (para. 4.10) and
in the monitoring of the implementation (para. 4.12) and it is evident that
the task force should have been created and staffed much earlier so that
software development could have been initiated and conducted in parallel with
the design and implementation of the physical components. Desirably, specific
curricula should already have been developed and tested in selected secondary
schools prior to the opening of the project schools.
4.09     Curriculum Development.  In cooperation with KEME, committees headed
by designated Task Force members reviewed curriculum and textbooks for Grade
10 (para. 4.05). Committees are currently revising and developing curriculum
for Grades 11 and 12. Since textbooks are already available for all but few
subjects, and revised rather than redesigned, it is expected that all
pedagogical materials will be available before the end of academic year
1984-85. It has been noted that teachers in project schools are overdependent
on textbook teaching. A sustained and systematic effort has to be made in
disseminating new teaching methods and training materials already developed by
some innovative teachers. A full-time curriculum development specialist
should be appointed in the Task Force to coordinate with inspectors,
administrators and subject advisors, the dissemination and application of
training materials and teaching methods.
4.10     Project School Staff.  The project school staff comprises seven
school directors and 177 teachers for a current 1:14 teacher-student ratio.
Qualified and experienced staff have been selected on an individual basis at
the regional level mainly on their interest to take part in the promotion of a
new curriculum, training methods and innovative educational environment.  In
collaboration with KEME, the Task Force conducted a three-day orientation
course in the summer of 1984 for all pilot school staff.  Since mid-1983, the
project financed 40.2 man-years of fellowships for 69 staff, in line with
appraisal objectives. These fellowships of a duration of six to ten months
were undertaken abroad and covered areas such as school administration,
specialized subjects teaching methods and vocational guidance. By providing
opportunities to observe similar systems already in operation in other
countries, one criical objective of institution-building has been achieved.
MOE officials pointed out that fellowships were preferred to foreign TA for
which there was no disbursements made under the project. While overseas
training was successfully implemented, little has been done to prepare a
specific plan for the upgrading and in-service training of staff to be
recruited in the next two academic years. The MOE should strenghen in-service
training (orientation seminars and regular working sessions with school
inspectors) and upgrading activities in forms of exchange between institutions.



-14-
4.11     Facilities and Equipment.  Due to delays in equipment procurement,
none of the project schools' workshops and laboratories was equipped.
Delivery was expected by March 1985, thus affecting workshop and laboratory
practical exercises during the current academic year. Delays arose mainly
during the preparation of equipment lists and specifications which were
completed at the end cf 1982, while tendering and contract awards were
processed efficiently since mid-1983 (para. 4.42). The facilities built are
of a good quality, but the space allocations are rather generous in all of
them, with 14% average increase in gross areas compared to appraisal estimates
(para. 4.40). The mission pointed out to MOE officials the importance of
providing adequate budget for maintenance and consumable materials, and to
avoid overcrowding and intensive use as is currently the case in most
secondary schools in large urban areas.
4.12     Conclusions.  Although the pilot secondary schools had a good start
and show positive trends, urgent attention must be given by the MOE to the
following areas:
(i)      the development of textbooks, teaching methods and examinations for
the complete curriculum (grades 10, 11, 12) and, more specifically,
for the new specializations to be offered. A full-time coordinator
should be appointed in the Task Force to coordinate specialized
committees in charge of curriculum revision, dissemination of
teaching methods and materials, and in-service training of.teachers.
(ii)     continuous monitoring and evaluation of the curriculum during a full
three year cycle. Research services within MOE, currently undergoing
restructuring and reorganization, are expected to provide assistance
to the Task Force. There is a need to reinforce the Task Force by
the appointment of a full-time member in the Task Force. Another
urgent task is to deaige a comparative evaluation of the educational
impact and external efficiency of the traditional and multilateral
secondary schools.
(iii)    finally, staffing and personnel development activities are key areas
requiring close supervision and advice through the appointment of a
full-time member in the Task Force. In-service training for school
administrators should be strengthened in areas such as pedagogical
supervision, guidance counselling and school management.
Higher Technical Education Centers (KATEs)
4.13     The project included three new higher technical education centers as
an extension to the program of five similar centers financed under the first
education project (Loan 711-GR). Located in Chalkis, Kozani and Kavala, the
new premises have not yet been completed; the Chalkis and Kozani centers for
which construction is completed at 602 and 702 respectively, are expected to
start enrollments in academic year 1985-86. Completion of construction for
Kavala is expected in July 1987, with an estimated 81 completed as of October
1984. In the meantime, the three institutes have been accommodated in



-15-
temporary premises since 1976 in Kozani, 1981 in Kavala and 1982 in Chalkis.
The mission visited two of these, Chalkis and Kozani, in which enrollments
totalled 1,502 and 1,340 students in October 1984, with female enrollments
comprising 31b and 162 of total enrollment, respectively. Enrollments are
higher than the appraisal figures by 42 and 201 respectively. The available
information on enrollments at Kavala on April 1984 indicated 1,320 students,
or 94% of total enrollment projected at appraisal. The size of enrollments
clearly indicates that the new premises will be fully occupied as soon as they
become available.
4.14     Specializations.  The basic specialixations offered in the three
project institutions include mechanical and electrical engineering, business
administration and accounting. With the exception of automotive engineering
offered at Kozani, and oil technology at Kavala, none of the new
specializations defined at appraisal is currently offered due to a lack of
equipment and limited physical facilities in the temporary premises. Those
specializations include chemical engineering, electronic, heating engineering,
instrument technology, optical mechanics, and textile and leather technology.
With the exception of textile and leather technology, curricula were prepared
by the Directorate General of Higher Technician Training Institutes and
reviewed by KEME and representatives of the industry, the related technical
and professional associations. Delivery of workshop and laboratory equipment
ia expected to be completed by March 1985, and installation at Kozani and
Chalkis completed for next academic year. With the opening of the new
facilities, it is expected that all but one (textile and leather technology)
of the new specializations will be offered in the project institutions.
4.15     Social Acceptance and Enrollment Expansion.  As mentioned in the
First Education Project Completion Report, one of the outstanding outcomes of
that project has been the dramatic widespread social acceptance of the KATEs.
For example, the number of applications to the KATEs has increased from nearly
10*000 in 1973 for 2,800 student places, (date of the opening of five KATEs),
to 60,000 applicants in 1979 for nearly 9,000 atudent places. For the present
academic year 1984-85, according to the Directorate of KATEs in Athens, the 14
existing KATEs attracted as many secondary school graduates as the
Universities. Under the new entrance examination system common to third level
institutions, out of 52,000 applicants who passed the entrance examination,
22,000 (or 422) were admitted to KATEs. About 352 of the students admitted to
KATEs are graduates of technical/vocational schools and the remaining are
graduates of general secondary schools, thus providing technical secondary
school graduates with opportunities for post-secondary studies.
4.16     Teaching Staff.  The teaching staff comprises full professors,
assistant professors, instructors and part-time lecturers. The present
teaching/student ratio is 1:11 for Chalkis and 1:14 for Kozani; the ratio for
Kavala is not available. All teachers are university graduates. Teaching
staff are expected to have a minimum of two years of industrial experience.
However, increased enrollments over the last few years led to an extensive
recruitment of university graduates at the project institutions who have not
had the required industrial experience. In addition, due to limited budget



-16-
authorization for regular posts, the ratio of full-time to temporary
contractual teaching staff has been maintained at a very low 1 to 5. It is
therefore vital to budget for the recruitment of full-time teaching staff as
well as for training programs to provide new graduates with some exposure to
industry. The project financed 18 man-years of fellowships for 36 KATE
teachers for six-month training programs in areas such as food technology,
agriculture, forestry, fishery, engineering, business management and graphic
arts, all of whom were assigned to KATEs.
4.17     Graduates and Employment  The employment prospects of those who
graduated from the Kozani KATE have been good. The Director indicated that
nearly 100% of graduates found employment in the region within a few months
after graduation. The most important factor in the placement of graduates has
been the practical training period for students during the summer period
offering an opportunity for both the employer and the trainee to know each
other better. However, there is a lack of systematic follow-up information on
graduates at the national level. As mentioned earlier for skilled workers and
technicians, there is a need for MOE to implement a tracer system for KATEs'
graduates. Although, as mentioned in the First Education Project PCR dated
February 22, 1980,' under Technical Education Law of 1977 there was provision
of appointing placement officers in the KATEs to oversee practical training
and conduct analysis of the employment of graduates, these placement officers
have not been recruited yet. The completion mission reiterated the importance
of such actions especially in view of the growing enrollments in KATEs from
19,583 in 1979-80 to nearly 42,000 in 1984-85 (an average increase of 16.5S
p.a.) and indications that in some areas such as engineering, there is a
strong competition from Universities and the Polytechnic. Under the new
education law concerning Higher Technician Training Centers (Law 1404 passed
in 1983), a Council of Technological Education is to be set up to advise the
Minister about programs to be offered in KATEs and the enrollments in order to
meet projected needs of the economy. The Council will have representatives
from public, private, educational and regional institutions but it is
essential that it also enjoy strong technical support in the areas of manpower
analysis and educational planning.
4.18     Conclusions.  Although normal operation of the three project KATEs is
still affected by delays in construction, the project institutions operating
in temporary premises have almost reached enrollments as appraised. In line
with the objectives of the first education project and extended in the third
project, KATEs gained widespread social acceptance reflected by a dramatic
increase in demand and enrollments over the last decade. However, more
attention needs to be given by MOE in the following
areas:
(i) staffing plans to recruit teachers and instructors on a
permanent basis in order to alleviate imbalances in
permanent/temporary teacher ratios, and to permit teaching
staff to gain industrial experience through sabbatical leaves
or exchange programs with the industry; and
(ii) manpower analysis and tracer studies of graduates to provide
feed-back on the specializations to be offered, the placement
of graduates, and the quality of training.



-17-
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs)
4.19     In line with one of the key policy objectives to give an increasing
emphasis to vocational training, the project included four new Vocational
Training Centers as an extension to the program of eight similar centers
financed under the Second Education Project (Loan 859-GR). The Bank agreed in
1978 to delete from the project the renovation of Tripolis VTC and to finance,
instead, the purchase of two mobile training units as an extension of a
similar program under the Second Project. Subsequently, those mobile units
were deleted from the project on the basis of adequate existing provision of
such facilities. These centers aim at promoting the apprenticeship system to
persons of up to 18 years of age through a three year program mixed with
practical experience and the provision of increased opportunities for
accelerated vocational training of unemployed adults through 6 month intensive
training programs. With the extension of universal compulsory education to
include grades I through 9 that took place in 1976, academic prerequisites
were raised from grade 6 to grade 9, and an innovative feature was introduced
to upgrade candidates who have not completed up to Grade 9, through short
intensive academic programs.
4.20     Enrollments.  Three of the four planned VTCs are completed and in
operation. The Veria, Kozani and Komotini centers started in 1984, while the
Chalkis VTC is expected to be completed and start operation in March-1985.
The mission visited the Veria and Kozani centers. Enrollments as of October
1984 totalled 576 students in apprenticeship programs and 80 in accelerated
training programs. The following table compares the actual enrollments by
type of programs with the projected capacity at appraisal.
TABLE 3: Projected Capacity and Actual Enrollments
in Vocational Training Centers 1/
PROJECTED CAPACITY                  ACTUAL ENROLLMENT
VTC     Apprenticeship   Accelerated  Apprenticeship  Actual/  Accelerated  Actual/
Programs      Training      Programs      Projected   Training  Projected
KOZANI            300            120           279            932        40         33%
VERIA             120             90           222           185S        -           0O
KONOTINI           60             90            75           125%        40         44%
TOTAL          480            300           576           1202        80         27%
1/ As of October 1984



-18-
The actual enrollments in apprenticeship programs exceed the projected
capacity by 201, while enrollments in accelerated training programs at Kozani
and Komotini reached 33% and 442 of projected targets, respectively.
Enrollments in accelerated training programs are expected to increase during
the second year of operation with the extension of specialized programs in
electricity, automotive mechanic, and agricultural machinery. At Veria,
students in apprenticeship programs are divided into two shifts (day and
evening courses) and facilities are used more than 12 hours per day.
4.21     Employment Prospects.  Specializations offered include machining,
electrical installation and maintenance, motor vehicle maintenance,
agricultural machinery, and welding. In the three-year program for
apprentices, students attend full-time programs during the first year and
subsequently, take evening courses during the second and third year. Nearly
100X of second and third year students are employed as apprentices in local
industries, most of whom are employed on graduation. The accelerated training
programs are aimed at unemployed adults, though employed persons wishing to
improve their vocational skills are not excluded. These programs last between
6 to 9 months, varying with each specialization. Employment prospects for
graduates are good, since decisions to start these programs are made on the
basis of local manpower needs. In the centers visited staff conduct surveys
of manpower and training needs and prepare, on an anni  basis, a training
calendar proposal far the specific short- and mid-term training needs
identified. These proposals are then sumitted to the NEO Directorate of VTCs
in Athens for approval. Moreover, in each center, staff follow developments
in the labor market and, through simple questionnaires, trace the adequacy of
training and the employment propects of their graduates.
4.22     Programs and Staffing.  The preparation and revision of courses for
both the apprenticeship and the accelerated training programs is a joint
effort in which employers, trade unions, specialists, and the interested
ministries are involved. VTCs adapt their courses taking into consideration
labor market needs or requests from the local enterprises. Administrators and
instructors are qualified and experienced in both teaching and industrial
work. The instructor/trainee ratios are currently 1:12 at Veria and 1:16 at
Kozani; no data are available for Komotini.
4.23     Use of Facilities.  The classrooms and workshop arrangements are
educationally satisfactory. However, the centers visited had not yet received
full allocation of workshop equipment for planned specializations. The
mission was informed by the Directorate of VTCs that the items have been
procured by the central services and would be delivered to the centers within
a month. Arrangements were also in progress by the same Directorate to ensure
transfer of permanent staff from Thessaloniki for the operation of boarding
houses which are not yet in use. The opening of these facilities (capacity of
186 at Kozani, 87 at Veria and 57 at Komotini) may lead to increased
enrollments and extended regional coverage in semi-urban locations like Veria
and Kozani.
Studies Included In The Project.
4.24     The project included three feasibility studies:  (a) a Study of a
School of Education; (b) a Post-Secondary Education System Development Study;
and (c) a Study of an Education Materials Production Unit.



-19-
4.25     Pre-Investment Study of the Center of Pedagogical Studies.  The study
was intended to examine the feasibility of the establishment of a School of
Education focusing on: (i) educational research; (ii) pedagogical training of
secondary school teachers; and (iii) training of education planners and
administrators.
4.26     Despite initial arrangements for its preparation, which included the
appointment of a director in October 1976, the study was discontinued at the
insistence of KEME (Center of Educational Studies and In-Service Training of
Teachers) on grounds of encroachment on their jurisdiction. KEME itself
prepared a feasibility study on the establishment of SELE (a School for
In-Service Training of Secondary Teachers and Administrators), which would
also be used by KEME for its curriculum development functions. Based on the
study, the financing of construction and equipment of SELME was introduced in
the Fourth Education Project.
4.27     According to MOE officials, legislation is now under preparation
aimed at the restructuring of KEME to strengthen its educational research
services.
4.28     Post-Secondary Education System Development Study.  The terms of
reference of the study included: (i) an analysis and evaluation of the
country-education system from the economic, educational and institutional
points of view; (ii) estimate of the desirable allocations of university
students into basic programs of studies in accordance with the developmental
needs of the country; and (iii) alternative proposals for the improvement and
future development of third level education. The Bank's view on the study
(7/16/76) was that it should be operational and not an academic research
exercise.
4.29     The study was carried out under the direction of two part-time
expatriate specialists assisted by a team of local professionals. Additional
support was provided by expatriate consultants, employed for varying periods
ranging from two weeks to three months for the more specialized tasks. Eight
specialists, in addition to the co-directors, were used for the preparation of
the study.
4.30     The study was completed in 1977.  The Steering Committee of the
Ministry of Coordination, dissatisfied with the format of the work, which
included a large number of appendices and special reports, asked the authors
to write a policy-oriented summary. An educator consultant, who participated
in the Bank supervision mission of June 1979 l/ rightly commented that the
study was long and discursive, did not adequately deal with post-secondary
non-university training and was not action-oriented. Even in its shortened
version, the study lacked sharp policy focus, and did not receive further
consideration by the Borrower.
4.31     Feasibility Study of an Education Materials Production Unit.  The
study was intended to investigate the prospects for the expansion and/or
1/ Supervision Report dated 7/18/79



-20-
retooling of the existing Education Materials Production Unit of the MOE,
including possible new production processes which would enable the Unit to
become a competitive and ecunomic source of supply of educational equipment
and other learning materials.
4.32     A preliminary study on the expansion of the Unit, completed by a
UNESCO expert in May 1977, recommended that a further detailed study on the
extent and nature of the expanded facilities be undertaken. The actual
feasibility study was continually put off and was not prepared during the
implementation period of the project, though TA was available.
4.33     The mission was informed by MOE officials that the MOE, apprehensive
of the increasing costs of commercially available educational equipment,
mostly imported, has recently appointed a task force of local specialists to
proceed with the feasibility study with its own funds.
TechLical Assistance (TA)
4.34     An initial amount of US $2.6 million was allocated in the Loan
Agreement for about 55 staff years of specialist services and 35 staff years
of fellowships. Nearly 30 staff years of specialist services were expected to
be used for development of curricula for new specializations at KATEs and for
new experimental curricula for multilateral secondary schools, while about 25
staff years of fellowships were intended for staff training for the
institutions. Modifications of TA, were requested from time to time by the
Borrower (6/27/77; 4/23/79) and generally eirected towards in.creases in
fellowships and reductions in specialist services, taking into consideration
the TA input of UNDP and the TA needs of the Fourth Education Project. The
implemented TA program included 13 staff years of specialist services and
about 112 staif years of fellowships. The specialist services were only used
on two items: the preparation of equipment lists of KATEs and the preparation
of the Post Secondary Education System Development Study. All the fellowships
were used for further training and upgrading of personnel for KATEs and
POSMEs, the latter taking the bigger share (752) of the fellowship program.
Staff training for both KATEs and POSMEs is highly recommended and remains an
important priority because of the high contribution expected of these
institutions to education development (paras. 4.10 and 4.17).
4.35     The appraisal also gave due consideration to the development of
curricula for these institutions by including specialist services -- which,
however, were not used due to local resistance to foreign specialists.
Provisions for strengthening local institution (SELME) for curriculum
development of KATEs and POSMEs were included in the Fourth Education
Pro5ect.  However, institution building should have included, in addition to
the strengthening of the curriculum development services of the MOE, the
establishment of educational evaluation services for the ongoing evaluation of
curricula, textbooks and teaching methods. Another important aspect of the TA
program, closely related to the career possibilities of KATE and POSME
students, should have been the appropriate training of personnel to support
the promotion of manpower planning, educational plannting and tracer studies
(paras. 4.07 and 4.16).



-21-
B. Physical Aspects
Overview
4.36     At appraisal, preliminary designs and equipment lists were scheduled
to be completed one year and a half after the signing of the Loan Agreement or
the last quarter of 1976; project implementation was scheduled to be completed
four years and a quarter after the signing of the Loan Agreement or the third
quarter of 1979; and the loan disbursed by December 31, 1980. Due to delays
in ratification of the Loan Agreement by the Parliament (10 months), the
selection and acquisition of sites, the unduly long process of selection and
appointment of consultant architect through architectural competion and long
drawn out design development process and the necessity to revise the plans in
accordance with unanticipated new regulations, the construction of the new
project institutions did not commence until 1981-1982, six months after the
original closing date. After 1981, delays in project implementation were
caused by unforeseen problems on several sites. Delays in procurement arose
from administrative problems in setting up and coordinating technical
committees for the preparation of equipment lists and specifications. The
closing date was extended three times (initially to December 31, 1981, then to
December 31, 1983, and finally to September 1, 1984), with disbursements on
contracts signed prior to the final closing date continuing until December 31,
1984. At the time of the completion mission, three of the four VTCs were
completed and partly equipped, and seven of the nine POSMEs were partially in
operation with first year students enrolled in October 1984. The three
project KATEs are currently in operation and accommodated in temporary
premises. Completion of construction and equipment installation is expected
by the end of 1985, with the exception of Kavala KATE and Kalamata POSME by
mid-1987. Actual implementation of all project institutions is now expected
to take 12 years, as compared to 4-1/4 years estimated at appraisal, and as
compared with the regional average for the education sector of nine years. A
total of US$8.1 million (182 of the original loan amount) was cancelled since
the fund could not be disbursed for withdrawal applications submitted by
December 31, 1984 (four years after the original closing date). To complete
the project, the Government will have to finance over US$9.4 million of
foreign exchange costs. It has agreed to do so.
Sites
4.37     At appraisal, half of the sites had already been selected and sites
for eight project institutions were to be selected prior to preliminary
designs of the buildings for these sites. Acquiring all 17 sites proved to be
time consuming (Chart 1) due to delays in obtaining the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) approval on zoning and final assignment to project institutions.
One site at Kavala was not granted exemption of zoning regulations and the
Government and the Bank agreed to delete the proposed POSME from the project.



|                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~-22-
DesiRn
4.38     An implicit institution-building objective of the project,  improving
the school building policv, was agreed between the Government and the Bank
during appraisal. Accordingly, each school design was to be prepared by
different private consultant architects/engineers which were to be appointed
directly by the MOE under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
However, during implementation, the Greek Technical Chamber decreed that for
all work of importance and of significant cost in the public sector,
architects must be selected through a national competition or public bidding
which would be open to all eligible architects in the country. Accordingly,
MOE announced a national architectural design competition in March 1977 for
the project POSMEs and KATEs despite Bank recommendations to the contrary.
The results of the competition were judged in November 1977 and final
appointments of architects took place only in August 1978. Thus it took two
years to recruit and sign contracts with the architects and other specialist
consultants against 3 months anticipated at appraisal. Moreover, each
structural, mechanical and electrihal consultant engineers had to be selected
and appointed directly by the Government. As a result, some 52 consulting
firms were involved in the development of the designs of project POSMEs and
xATEs.  DIEP staff had to administer those contracts, and to review and
approve all work performed by the consultants in all stages (preliminary
stage, final design stage, construction drawings and technical specifications
and bid documentation), tasks for which DIEP was not staffed. It took three
additional years before construction drawings were ready for bidding by
mid-1981, compared to appraisal estimate of less than 1-1/2 years after loan
signing (or December 1976).
4.39     In the later stages of construction supervision and equipment
procurement, the reorganization and strengthening of DIEP in MOE brought a
considerable improvement in project implementation (para. 4.47). Thus,
although the institution-building objective was achieved late in the Bank's
involvement with the project, the project's contribution to school building
and implementation of civil works is positive.
Construction
4.40          Although civil works implementation schedule suffered from
accumulated delays in previous stages of site acquisition, design and bidding
procedures, construction started in late 1981 for M80 VTCs and in 1982 for hOE
POSMEs and KATEs, and is proceeding slightly behind schedule (from six months
to one year), with the exception of Kalamata POSME and Kavala KATE with three
years behind the revised agreed schedule of July 1980. The strengthening of
DIEP's supervision role and the subsequent reorganization and expansion of its
supervisiou. unit contributed to a more efficient system of site supervision
and a better control of the contractors. Construction is generally of good
quality. During the mission, the Government provided assurance that civil
works would be completed according to previously agreed plans under its own
funds.



-23-
Maintenance
4.41     The mission found the maintenance of those educational institutions
in operation adequate. For the VTCs, a derentralized maintenance program at
the regional and local levels are helping keep recurrent costs low.
Furniture and Equipment
4.42     At negotiations, the Borrower agreed to appoint appropriate
specialists to the implementation unit to assist in equipment procurement.
DIEP staff did in fact eventually develop most of the equipment lists for the
KATEs. DIEP's work on the KATEs was thorough and systematic. An assessment
was made by the Director-General of Technical Education of the purchase of
equipment supplied under the second project and there was a major effort to
rationalize the number of laboratory courses for all the KATEs (third and
fourth education projects). In the case of the POSMEs the preparation of
equipment lists (similar to those prepared for the secondary teacher training
institutes in the second Project) was entrusted to KEME. It was decided to
establish committees of teachers to carry out the task of preparation of
equipments except for some nine specializations which the British consultants
handled. This proved difficult because under civil service regulations
honoraria could not be paid the teachers for this additional work. Later in
1982 when procurement of equipment became critical because of the upcoming
closing date, this problem was resolved on an exceptional basis by special
decree. The MEO had already established standardized equipment lists and had
no difficulties in procuring equipment. Tender documents were finalized for
ICB in early 1983 and by the closing date all equipment contracts - estimated
at US$28.6 million - had been signed. Procurement of furniture presented no
special difficulty. The main reason for the late procurement of most
equipment and furniture was the significant delay in civil works. However,
where equipment could be used in ongoing programs (KATEs) housed in temporary
facilities, it was procured as required.
4.43     Final workshop layouts for MOE project institutions are not yet
finalized due to the major workload created by this last minute processing of
equipment contracts. The mission suggested to the DIEP that, in order to
accelerate installation of equipment, its professional staff assist the
institutions in the finalization of layouts and supervision of installation.
Covenants
4.44     Two covenants have not yet been fulfilled because of delays in
project implementation. They are:
(a) Section 3.04(b). The appointment of school administrators and
teaching staff for two POSMEs and one VTC, has been delayed.
These staff are expected to be appointed before the 1985/86
school year; and
(b) Schedule 2, Part 2(d). The development of an evaluation system
for multilateral secondary schools has not been completed yet.
The Task Force responsible for the operation of pilot schools is
expected to submit a proposal to MOE before the end of academic
year 1984-85.



-24-
Bank Performance
4.45     Subsequent to loan effectiveness, the project was supervised by 18
Bank supervision missions (Basic Data Sheet) and there was reasonable staff
continuity. The supervision effort was adequate, totalling some 193.5
man-days, or an average of 24 man-days per year. Bank supervision missioas,
fully aware of implementation problems encountered by the Central Project Unit
and implementation agencies in this and other Bank financed projects in
education, took all possible steps to bring their concern to the knowledge of
the Greek authorities concerned. Bank senior staff also brought these
concerns up at Country Implementation Reviews in December 1978, May 1979,
February 1980, April 1981, and again in May 1982, as well as during the Annuel
Meetings. Preparation for these CIRs meetings was matte by projects staff
based on recent supervision findings and remedial measures were discussed with
Government. Detailed schedules of implementation based on current prognoses
of civil works, equipment procurement and TA were prepared as a basis for
those meetings, and were reviewed in depth by the successive CIR missions.
While these action plans generally met with government acceptance, the typical
pattern was for significant slippage to occur in the following months. The
degree of response which Bank recommendations got from higher level government
authorities may have been conditioned by the fact that this project was
conceived and negotiated during the previous regime.
4.46     In retrospect, the proposal to select architects by a competition
organized by the Greek Association of Architects and Engineers might have been
more carefully designed. Too much latitude was given to architects in the
first phase of design competition, leading to disagreements later on. The
goals were not unreasonable: to develop local consultant and project design
capacity within the context of a major project. However, the Association was
not experiuacei in such matters and decisions on design selection led to
significant delays, later compounded by mandatory energy conservation design
changes and delays in obtaining MPW approval on zoning. Moreover, the
competition greatly complicated the Bank's role in architectural supervision
because the initial designs did not resgect agreed design specifications and
several revisions were required before final designs could be accepted.
Undoubtedly, local architects benefitted from this experience. However, it
could have been a more cost-effective one.
4.47     In the preparation of equipment lists, the initial failure of locally
appointed committees to carry out this work due to problems associated with
their remuneration resulted in extensive delays, compounded by delays in
finalizing curricula. Although the Bank suggested alternative solutions, the
Government's indecisiveness led to long delays. The situation was finally
resolved by the payment - on an exceptional basis - of local staff when it
became clear that equipment contracts might not be signed before the closing
date.
4.48     Overall, the Bank and the Government developed a positive dialogue on
much needed measures to modernize the education and training system. The
Government expressed satisfaction with the Bank's implementation asaistance in
general.



-25-
Borrower Performance
4.49     In the context of the CIRs initiated in 1978 for seven ongoing Bank
financed projects, tha delays in project implementation and slco disbursements
reflected the broader issues described in the report issued following the
first CIR held in December 1978:
"The overt causes of unsatisfactory project implementation on this
portfolio can be summarized as follows. (...) For the education
projects: (i) slow decision making at two levL-s, ministerial and
technical, for standard implementation decisions; (ii) despite
approval of sufficient posts, inadequate staffing with inexperienced
personnel, because of the Minister's insistence on finding personnel
himself; and (iii) protracted Greek procedures for engaging
architects and for the selection of contractors, although some
agencies have managed to reduce the time cycle to 14 months against
27 months spent by the Education Ministry."
At the beginning of the project, responsibility for implementation was too
dispersed. On one hand, the CPU in the Ministry of Coordination was supposed
to exercise general oversight and provide elements of specialist assistance,
e.g. in procurement and curriculum design. At the level of implementation
agencies, two of the MOE services were involved: the Programming and Planning
Section and the existing OSK which had country-wide responsibility for school
construction, a fact which tempted them to put Bank-financed projects on the
"back burner". The Bank pushed for a clarification of project
responsibilities and improvement of human resources dedicated to it. Finally,
the government decided in 1980 to take steps to reinforce DIEP as the sole
responsible implementation unit. This took time because of the general
problems of recruiting competent and experienced staff for the public sector.
Moreover, such staff were not civil servants and often better paid than
corresponding specialists in the civil service. Consequently, they were often
resented as outsiders, finding it difficult to establish contact with the
senior officials who had to make the decisions. However, the effort to
strengthen DIEP was eventually successful in that a heavy volume of equipment
procurement was processed in the last year and a half of the project. The
strengthening of DIEP should have lasting benefits.



-26-
V PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Capital Cost
5.01     The project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$99.6 million
excluding project items cancelled during project implementation. However, the
project will nov not be completed until 1987 (Chart 1) and it is estimated
that the final cost may be as high as US$119.9 million, an overrun in US$
equivalent of about 20o.
5.02     This increase in the total project cost is mainly due to: (i) the
tripling of the period of implementation estimated at appraisal; and   s) the
unanticipated inflation rate in Greece during 1978-82 period, the effects of
which until very recently exceeded the benefits of successive drachzua
devaluations.  The major increase was in civil works due to delays in
implementation and inflation. The cost for furniture and equipment did not
increae significantly due to the fact that equipment was procured mainly in
1984 when the US$ was strong vis-i vis other currencies. Appraisal and
completion estimates are su9m4arized in the following table:
Table 4i Estimated Proiect Costs by -Categor
Category of                   Appraisal      I of       Current        % of   % Difference
Expenditures                Estimate of      Total   Estimate of       Total   Current/
Costs te        Cost       costs p s      Cost   Appraisal
(us$ million)             (Upj  million)
I.    Civil works                  70.82       71.11      88.72             74.81   +25.31
(inc prof. fees)
II.   Furniture and
equipment                  25.39       25.5a      29.69             24.01   +16.91
III.  Technical assistance          3.40        3.41       1.49              1.21   -56.21
TOTAL                   99.61        1001    119.90               1001
Appraisal Year (1975)                    Exchange Rate:  US $ 1 p    30.00
Intervening Years' Average                                US $ 1 b   96.00
Completion Year Average (1984)                            us $ fl  w  120.00
1/    Excluding all project items cancelled during project implementation.



-27-
Unit Usnce Allmcation o'r 8tu*t
5.03    Gross'area  per student place are approximately as follows:
Table 5: Estimated Area Per Student Place
Type of Institution                           Gross Unit Areas in m2
Appraisal      Current         Difference
Estimate       Estimate         (percent)
Mltilateral secondary schools
Academic and communal                  7.7          9.7              +26%
Higher teehncal education centers
Academic and counal                  11.8          15.9              +352
Boarding                              8.1          11.7              +44S
Accelerated training centers
Academic and coummnal                15.0          16.2              + 8S
Boarding                              7.2           9.1              +26%
Staff Housing                        150.0         150.0                01
The increase in average unit area per student place in the project schools is
the result of larger circulation areas necessitated by steep and difficult
sites in some cases, and of MOD decision to increase space allocation for
boarding facilities to which the Bank agreed.
Unit Cost 22r Student Place
5.04     The unit cost per student place covers all expenditures including
contingencies and professional fees and are approximately as follows:
Table G# fstimat.d eoa t Pr Studant Placa
Cutt ear Studant Placa in liSt
Type of Institution
Furniture and
Cangtruetian     KM1 mk otal                      X QiffarenGA
Ammrimal  Actal  hAmlnri       falAtual  AnatrAisal  Actual Annriisal/Actual
miltilateral Secndary
Schools            2,470   2.690      720      Boo   3,190      2,690    +15.7w
1i1er Tehnical
Education Centers   5,220    7,430    2,660    3,750   8,100    11,180    +38.0%
Acelerated Training
Cantrs              4.920    6,430    2.070     600   9.060      7,030    -22.4%



-28-
The increase in unit cost per student place in the project schools is the
result of increased space allocations (para. 5.03 above) and of inflation over
the long period of implementation. Because the project institutions have been
operating less than a year, there were no available data on recurrent unit
costs.
Disbursements
5.05    A comparison of actual withdrawals with appraisal estimates is shown
by semester in Annex 4 and by years in the following table:
Table 7: Planned Disbursements and Actual Withdrawals
Disbursement per year          Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal           Planned     Actual               Planned     Actual
Year              (US $ Million)                   (US $ Million)
1976              0.60         -                    0.60        -
1977               1.10        -                    1.70        -
1978               5.90        -                    7.60        -
1979              21.83        -                   29.43        -
1980              14.31        -                   43.74        -
1981               1.26        -                   45.00        -
1982               _           0.40                45.00        0.40
1983               -           4.00                45.00        4.40
1984               -           5.10                37.001/       9.50
1985               -          27.40                37.00        36.90 2/
1/ After cancellation of US$ 8.0 million on May 17, 1984.
2/ As of February 12, 1985.
_ ~~~~~~~~~~M                         W    Rj__BE             ,_R3FR_BbvSD Z.MJi$ii5W- G:  M> l D NM -bTlrvVY



-29-
5.06     The following table shows actual loan disburseents by categories:
Table 8: Estimated and Actual Disbursements by Catesory
Original       New Allocation
Allocation     After Cancellation    Estimated          As X of
(including     of US$8.0 million        Final             Loan
Type of Expenditures   contingencies)    05/17/84           Disbursements 1/  Allocation
I. Civil Works          17.9              14.0               13.8             99
II. Furniture and
Eouipment            24.3              21.5               22.5            105
III. Technical Assist.     2.8               1.5                0.6             40
Total             45.0              37.0               36.9             99.7
1/ As of February 12, 1985.
5.07     Although US$36.86 million of the Loan were disbursed by February 12,
1985, the Government's share of the project is incomplete and it is estimated
that approximately US $28.2 million will be required to complete the project,
of which an estimated US$9.4 million equivalent in foreign currencies and US$
18.8 million equivalent in local currency. The government has already
incurred and/or committed a total expenditure of about US $91.7 million on the
construction and equipping of the project and technical assistance (mainly
fellowships), and has given assurances that it will complete the project.
Outcomes
5.08     Although the project institutions are operating under difficulties
(outstanding works; delayed equipment delivery) resulting from long delays in
site acquisition (para. 4.37), finalization of designs (para. 4.38) and
preparation of equipment of equipment lists (para. 4.42), the major objectives
of the project are likely to be achieved. The opening of pilot secondary
schools (POSMEs) in 1984-85 represents a major step in the modernization of
general secondary education. The new diversified curriculum is expected to
reduce the academic bias in post-secondary education, to enhance the
performance of students who enter post-secondary studies in technology-related
and scientific fields, and to permit flexibility in adapting programs to
changes in technology and labor market (para. 4.05). The expansion of
post-secondary technical education (KATEs) and vocational training (VTCs), in
line with the assistance provided in the First and Second Education Project,
is expected to contribute further to the provision of qualified manpower for
the requirements of the developing economy (paras. 4.14 and 4.18).



-30-
Lessons Learned
5.09     The delays in project implementation and slow disbursements reflect
broader issues related to slow decision making, inadequate staffing of the
implementing agency, and to the protracted and complex procedures for
selecting architects to prepare designs. These procedures should have been
specified and agreed during appraisal. This experience underscores the
desirability to clarify project responsibilities at appraisal and to staff
adequately the implementation unit with sufficient number of specialists to
coordinate the design and implementation of physical aspects (para. 4.49).
Many of the problems encountered during arly implementation stage were
later resolved as a result of the constructive dialogue between Bank
supervision missions and successive CIR missions. In that respect, the
importance of the technical assistance provided by supervision and CIR
missions - in preparing detailed schedules of implementation and action plans
- cannot be overstated (para. 4.45).
5.10 The fact that the new diversified upper secondary curriculum is being
introduced two years behind schedule (only grade 10 has been completed)
underlines the need to pay as much attention to the organization, management,
staffing of software development activities as to physical implementation.
While it is laudable that a task force has now been established, most of the
work - textbooks, teaching methods, examinations, evaluation and teacher
training and upgrading - should have been started early and carried out in
parallel to the implementation of the physical components. most importantly,
new curricula could have been field-tested in selected, existing secondary
schools. Similarly, a comparative evaluation of the educational impact and
external efficiency (para. 4.07) of the academic high schools and the
multilateral schools should have been designed earlier so that survey work
could have been started in the first year of the new curriculum's application
(1984/85) (para. 5.09).



Chart 1
- 31 -                                      Page 1 of 2
__  ------------t-n--1-----                     --__ _-----_tt-----------
_  a  a    a            at         a  a-~ ~ v ~  ---------
__    a  t                    t        t              t  *                      Oa  a  a  aj
-  -   a -    a    I      a,                  a --
_  a   a-a                            a---
a--a-a   -a    - - - - - - - - 
a  a  a  a         a  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44a
gt  f   ,                                            s  t   # Is  As             ge
at                                               s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
a a'X  ai    a@ 8E a a



- 32 -
Chart 1
Page 2 of 2
_- --- - - - - - - --- #  -----------____________
g~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -                                          - - - - - - - - _
-   - - - - - - - - -----------
- - - -                                                                   - -                      
OR0                                  " a s                    X s  g
b  S                     E   b   S  XA0e  X   !   C                         .
N ] ] s   e s X X X               a
lEN  5              f           5            8
_JW W:i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4ois R   ,,
(A                            C6~~~~~~~~



PEO.ECT COMPLETION REPRT
iREECE: - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT lLOAN 1134-OR)
imblementation of Civil Works
ProJect Institutions    Conuencement Actual or Estimated X Completed  Expenditures  Estimated Expenditures Incurred
of      Date of Completion      as of      to Date     Total Cost  as % of Estimated
construction                     October 1984   (in million US S)           Total Cost
I Vocational Training Centers
Chalkis                  01/82              03/85             95%          2.09         2.37           88
Kozani                   09:81              09/83            100%          2.26         2.26          100
Veria                    05/81              08/83            100%          2.16         2.16          100
Komatlni                 08/81              11/83            100%          2.09         2.09          100
Tripolis               (cancelled)            -               -              -            -            -
II Hither Technical Education
Centers (TEls)
Chalkis                  01/82              12/85             60%          5.70         7.71           74
Kavala                   05/83              07/87              8X          2.28        14.46           16
Kozani                   03/82              12/85             70%          6.24         7.23           86
III Multilateral Secondary
Schools (EPLs)
Athens                   01/82              06/85             70%          6.50         7.52           86
Piraeus                  05/82              03/85             70%          5.22         6.07           86
Thessaloniki             04/82              12/85             60%          4.24         5.78           73
Katerini                 01/82              01/8S             90%           3.82        4.34           88
Agrinion                 03/82              10/85             8ot          6.02         7.23           83
Volos                    04/82              12/85             98%          4.01         4.34           92
loannina                 06/82              03/85             86a          3.71         4.34           85
Chania                   04/82              "8/85             60%           2.97        4.05           73
Kalamta                  02/82              04/87             17%           1.31        6.75           19
Kavala                 (cancelled)            -               -
TOTAL                                                           60.62       88.70



- 34 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                 Annex 2
GREECE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 1134-GR)
Gross Floor Areas
Project Institutions                    Physical Facilities                Percentage
As Built 1/            Appraisal 2/           Change
I Vocational Training Centers
Chalkis                        6,201                    5,300                 +17
Kozani                         6,756                    5,900                 +15
Veria                          5,563                    4,270                 +30
Komotini                       5,042                    4,060                 +24
Tripolis                    (cancelled)                (3,800)                 _
II Higher Technical Education
Centers (TEIs)
Chalkis                       24,500                   20,780                 +18
Kavala                        32,000                   21,560                 +48
Koxani                        21,650                   17,290                 +25
III Muitilateral Secondary
Schools (EPLs)
Athens                        23,970                   17,080                 +40
Piraeus                       16,571                   17,080                 +03
Thessaloniki                  19,191                   17,080                 +12
Katerini                      14,595                   12,860                 +13
Agrinion                      14,386                   l2,860                 +12
Volos                         159143                   12,860                 +18
Ionnina                      12,782                    12,860                 -01
Chania                        14,326                   12,860                 +11
Kalamata                      16,445                   12,860                 +28
Kavala                      (cancelled)               (12,860)                 -
1/   As built - when completed.
2/    As indieated in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Description of the Project, p. 1



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECK - TIIIRD EKIUCATION PROJECT (Loan 1134-CR)
Comparison of Originally Estimated Costs of Civil Works.
Furniture and Equipment and ActuaI Costs (in US $ 'ooo's)
Construction                    Furniture and Equipment                            Total
Appraisal   Estimated      X          Appraisal   Estimated                 Appraisal   Estimated       X
Project Inotitutions           Estimate        or      Difference    Estimate        or      Difference    Estimate        or     Difference
including    Actual                   Including    Actual                   Including    Actual
Coatingencies    Cost                 Contingencies    Cost                 Contingencies    Cost
I Vocational Training Centers
Chalkis                    1,663.4        2,365.6      +422       820.0          205.0       -75       2.483.4        2,70.6        * 4
goszai                     18S55.5        2,258.1      +22        685.4          205.0       -70       2.540.9        2,463.1       - 1
Veria                      1.351.6        2.161.3      460        578.3          205.0       -65       1.929.9        2.366.3       423
Komotini                   1,281.5        2,091.4      +63        445.9          205.0       -54       1,727.4        2,29Y.4       433
Tripolis                    (641.7)          --         --       (330.0)          --          --        (971.7)                      --
11 higher Technical Education Centers
Chalkis                    6,973.4        7,714.6      +11      4,251.7        5,683.7       +34      11,225.1       13,398.3       +19
Revala                     7,907.2       14,464.8      e83      4,012.8        4,274.3       + 7      11,920.0       10,739.1       .57
Kosani                     5,798.6        7,232.4      +25      3,127.5        4.883.6       456       8.926.1       12,116.0       +Jb
111 Multilateral Secondary Schools
Atbens                     5.202.0        7,521.7      e45      1,543.3        1.941.4       +26       6,745.3        9,463.1        +40
Piraeus                    5,202.0        6,075.2      .17      1,542.9        1,941.4       426       6,744.9        8,016.6        .19
Thessaloniki               5,202.0        5.785.9      +11      1,542.5        1,941.4       *26       6,744.5        7,727.3        415
Iaterini                   3,919.0        4.339.4      e11      1,141.1        1,367.8       420       5,060.1        5,707.2        +13
Agrinion                   3,919.0        7,232.4      +85      1,141.1        1,367.8       420       5,060.1        8,600.2        470
Volos                      3,919.0        4,339.4      +11      1.140.7        1.367.8       +20       5.059.7        5.707.2        t13
loanina                    3,919.0        4.339.4     +11       1,140.7        1,367.8      e20        5,059.7        5,707.2        .13
chania                     3.919.0        4.050.1      e 3      1,140.7        1,367.8       +20       5,059.?        5,417.9        .1)7
Kalamta                    3,919.0        6.750.2      *72      1,140.7        1,367.8       .2u       5,059.7        5,018.0        .58
Kgaval                    (3,919.0)         ---         --     (1,140.1)         --          _    _   (5,06.1)          --            --
Subtotal             65,951.2      88,721.9       --      25,395.3      29,692.6        --       91,346.5      118,414.5        --
(Cancelled)           (4,560.7)         --         _       (1,471.1)         --          -        (6,031.8)         ---          --
TOTAL               70,511.9      88,721.9      o26      26.866.4      29,692.6       +11       97,378.3      118,414.5       *22
0
E~ ~ ~ ~



,PgtCT aiMLZM RIET
GREECE - THIRD EmECATINu ,ROJECT ILoan 1134-fa)
J5sburs&flTat&
Anoraisls  EstiMtes          ACtual         Actual as    Significant dates and events
FY      Semester     Amounts  Cuaalative  Amounts Cuulative Z of Appraisal in project implementation
Amounts               Amounts     Estimate
--US $  OOos - -
76   1 (07/75-12/75)      90        90          --        --          --          06/75 Signing
2 (01/76-06/76)    510        600         --         --         --           04/76 Effective Date
77   1 (07/76-12/76)    750      1,3S0          --        --          --
2 (01/77-06/77)    350      1.700         -          --
78   1 (07/77-12/77)  2,340      4.040-                               --
2 (01/78-06/78)  3,560      7.600          --        --          --
79   1 (07/78-12/78)  6,600    14,200           --        --          --
2 (01;79-06/79) 15,230    29,430           --        --          --
80   1 (07/79-12/79) 11,340    40,770           --        --          --
2 (01/80-06/80)  2,970    43,740          --         -           --
81   1 (07/89-12/80)  1.260    48,000           --        --          --        12/80 Original Closing Date
2 (01/81-06/81)                            --        --          --
82   1 (07/81-12/81                             --        --          --        12/81 Revised Closing Date
2 (01/82-06/82)                           390       390           1
83   1 (07/82-12/82)                         2,1CD     2,490           6
2 (01/83-06/83)                         1.900     4,390          10
84   1 (07/83-12/83)                         3,000     7,390          16        12/83 Revised Closing Date
2 (01/84-06/84)           (37,000)     2,100      9,490          26        OS/84 Cancellation of
US $ 8.0 million
09/84 Final Closing Date
8S   1 (07/84-12/84)           (37,000)    27,366    36,856           99       (as of February 12, 1985)



