Report No. 755-GR
Appraisal of an                                                                     FILE COPY
Education Project in the
Hellenic State
May 2, 1975
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility tor the accuracy or completeness of the report,



Currency  Equivalents
US$ 1.00     =         Drachma (Dr) 30.00
Dr  1.00     =          US$ 0.03
Measures
1 m'        10.764 sq.ft.
1 hn2,    0.38 sq.mile
1 hectare=    2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 - Decenber 31



GREECE
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...................................   i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..............................................                                 1
II.     COUNTRY  BACKGROUND  ........................................                                2
Physical  Environment  and  Population  ..................                            2
Economic  Development  .................................                             2
Economic  Development  Strategy  ........................                            2
Employment  Opportunities  and Manpower  Requirements    ...                         3
III.      THE  EDUCATION  AND MANPOWER  DEVELOPMENT  SECTOR  ....                       .........      4
The  Present  System  ...................................                            4
Educational  Development  Strategy  .....................                             5
Education  Expenditures  ...............................                             6
IV.     THE  PROJECT.7
I.    TEPOET............................................... 
Objectives  ..........              .................................                 7
Accelerated  Training  Centers  .........................                             8
HIigher Technical  Education  Centers  ...................                           9
Multilateral  Secondary  Schools  .......................                           10
Pre-investment Study of a Center of Pedagogical
Studies  ...................................                                       11
Post  Secondary  Education  System  Development  Study  .......                     12
Feasibility Study of an Education Materials
Production Unit .....................................                              13
Technical Assistance  .................................                             13
Cost  of the Project  ..................................                            14
Financial  Plan  ...... .................................                           15
Implementation  .......................................                             16
Disbursements  ........................................                             17
V.    BENEFITS ..................................................                                  17
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECO1fMMENDATION  .....................                             18
This report is based on the findings of a preparation/appraisal mission which
visited Greece in June/July, 1974. The mission consisted of Messrs. C.P. van
Dijk (economist, consultant), A. Andonyadis (architect), J.C. Jones (technical
educator, consultant) and R. Tillman (general educator, consultant).



ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. The Education and Training System
3. Projection of Manpower Requirements, 1971-1987
4. Actual and Projected Enrollments by Levels and Types of Education,
1972-1987
5. Public Expenditures on Education, 1968-1973
6. Projection of Public Expenditure on Education, 1970-1987
7. Enrollments, Outputs, Student/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in Project
Institutions
8. Distribution of Courses and Enrollments in Accelerated Training Centers
9. Distribution of Courses and Enrollments in Higher Technical Education
Centers
10. Technical Assistance
11. Unit Capital Costs of New Project Institutions
12. Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
13. Contingency Allowances
14. Project Implementation Schedule
15. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



G R E E C E
BASIC DATA (1973) j
Population
Total Population (1974)                                      9.1 million
Population Growth Rate                                       0.6% p.a.
Income
GNP per capita (1974)                                       $1;780  2/
GNP growth rate (real) 1961-1970                             7.8% p. a.
GNP growth rate (real) 1973                                   8.6%
Education
- Literacy (1971, population over age 10)                   86%
- Primary school enrollment ratio (age group 6-11)          99%
- Secondary school enrollment ratio (age 12-17)             72%
- Higher education enrollment ratio (age 18-23)             11%
- Public expenditure on education as a
percentage of total government expenditure              11%
- Public expenditure on education as a percentage
of GDP            2,6%
- Total expenditure on education as a percentage
of GDP            3.8%
See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed description of
the present education and training system.
World Bank Atlas.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since 1960, Greece has moved through a period of rapid economic
growth and profound changes in the structure of production and employment,
in consumption patterns and living conditions. Agriculture has lost its pre-
dominant place, and industry and services are now the leading growth sectors.
Hundreds of thousands have moved from agricultural areas to the cities and
many more will do so in the coming decade. Citizens are demanding the ameni-
ties of a modern, industrialized society and parity with the standards of
living of the European Economic Community. Among these demands, the desire
for more and better education is strong.
ii.       Considerable progress has been achieved in the last two decades in
broadening educational opportunities. Primary education is universal, 72%
of the relevant age group attend secondary schools and 11% are in higher edu-
cation. Retention and progression rates are generally high, while virtually
100% of primary and general secondary school teachers and 90% of the tech-
nical secondary teachers are academically qualified. There are no signifi-
cant imbalances in enrollment between boys and girls, except in higher educa-
tion.
iii.      In structure and content, however, the Greek education system has
not been adapted yet to the new needs of a rapidly changing economy and
society. An inordinate concern for the role of the education system in pre-
serving the nation's cultural heritage coupled with the lack of educational
research have resulted in an over-emphasis on traditional, classical educa-
tion. At both general secondary and university levels, the system is rigidly
structured and inadequate to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing student
body originating from all social classes and preparing for a broad range of
activities in all sectors of the economy. Moreover, although qualified
academically, most teachers in secondary education neither have received
adequate pedagogical training nor have been exposed to modern curricula,
with the result that, as a group, they do not constitute a force which could
stimulate change. At the same time, vocational training and technical educa-
tion at secondary and post-secondary levels are still quantitatively and
qualitatively underdeveloped and unable to meet the growing manpower require-
ments of the economy.
iv.       The government has already given increasing emphasis to vocational
training and technical education and plans to continue to do so.  This proj-
ect, as the two previous Bank education projects, is partly based on this
policy objective. More fundamental structural changes in the system are re-
cquired, particularly for general secondary and university education, but long
standing traditions, powerful institutionalized interests and conflicting
social and educational ideologies make them difficult to realize in the
short-term. There is, however, a growing willingness to experiment with new
forms of education and to introduce reforms on a modest scale, which could
act as catalysts for more comprehensive reforms at a later stage. The pro-
posed proJect is designed to make use of these opportunities.



- ii -
v.        Specifically, the project would include:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for:
-    five accelerated training centers
-    three higher technical education centers
-    ten pilot multilateral secondary schools
(b) a pre-investment study of a proposed Center of Pedagogical
Studies;
(c) a post-secondary education system development study;
(d) a feasibility study of an Education Materials Production
Unit; and
(e) related technical assistance.
vi.       By increasing the annual output of the system by about 2,400 at the
craft level and 1,500 at the technician level, the project would assist in
alleviating about 10% and 15%, respectively, of the projected average annual
manpower shortages at these levels in the period to 1987. The project would
also represent a first step toward much needed improvements in the relevance
and quality of general secondary education (a sector not covered by the two
previous projects), through the provision of the pilot multilateral schools
with new curricula. These schools would represent a dramatic departure from
the established education pattern in Greece and could exert a strong influence
in stimulating further reforms of secondary education.
vii.      Among the preconditions for education reform in Greece are more
systematic pedagogical training for secondary school teachers, improved
educational research, better planning and administration of the education
system and availability of more and better educational equipment and other
learning materials. The proposed project would assist in each of these
areas through the financing of the pre-investment study of a Center of
Pedagogical Studies, the post-secondary education system development study,
and the feasibility study of the Education Materials Production Unit.
viii.     The project would be implemented by the same government agencies
and units responsible for the implementation of the second education project.
The Central Project Unit, established under the second education project and
further reinforced, would be responsible for providing overall management,
coordination and supervision of the above agencies and units.
ix.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment for all project
institutions would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, except for furniture and equip-
ment items costing less than US$3,000, which are to be included in one mis-
cellaneous category not exceeding US$100,000 for each institution. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local manufacturers of furniture



- iii -
and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing
rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower. Contracts for items in the miscellaneous category
would be awarded under normal government procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
ix.       The total project cost is estimated at US$105.6 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$45.3 million. The project is suitable as
a basis for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million to the Hellenic State for a term
of 15 years including a grace period of 5 years.



.1



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1970, the Bank made a first education loan of US$13.8 million to
Greece (Loan No. 711-GR) to help meet critical manpower shortages of sub-
professionals in fields such as agriculture and food processing, engineering,
business administration and health. The project was delayed because of slow-
ness in appointing consultant architects and the Project Unit staff, but
project implementation is now progressing satisfactorily. Construction of
all schools is expected to be completed by the end of 1975, about six months
behind the original schedule.
1.02      A second loan of US$23.5 million (Loan No. 859-GR), approved in
September 1972, provided assistance to improve the quality of education and
to stimulate education reform across a broad spectrum of levels and types of
institutions, including primary teacher training, a variety of specialized
vocational schools (agricultural, industrial, tourism and merchant marine
training), and the schools of engineering and science at the University of
Patras. Project implementation has been proceeding slowly due to delays in
the selection and contracting of consulting architects, but these problems
are now being resolved and the project is expected to be completed by the
original closing date. The Bank is considering a government request to
delete the University of Patras from the project and to reallocate the uni-
versity loan funds to defray a portion of the additional foreign exchange
costs of the other project items caused by recent international price in-
creases.
1.03      The proposed third project would further reinforce the system of
vocational training and technical education to help meet the growing manpower
requirements of the economy, while at the same time representing a first
step toward much needed reforms of general secondary and further changes in
higher education. The project was identified by a Unesco project identifica-
tion mission, which visited the country in May and June 1973, was partially
prepared by government task forces and subsequently was prepared and apprais-
ed in June/July 1974 by a Bank mission consisting of Messrs. C.P. van Dijk
(economist, consultant), A. Andonyadis (architect), J. C. Jones (technical
educator, consultant) and R. Tillman (general educator, consultant).
1.04      The proposed project is substantially in accordance with the govern-
ment's original proposals, except for the deletion of four Higher Technical
Education Centers (which were to be located in areas where development pro-
spects are uncertain) and of the proposed expansion of the Education Materials
Production Unit and the establishment of the Center of Pedagogical Studies,
both of which require further study.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      The Hellenic State of Greece, on the Mediterranean coast, covers
an area of 132,000 sq. kms, of which only 30% is flat and potentially arable.
The population in 1974 was estimated at 9.1 million, and is growing at the
low rate of 0.6% p.a., partly due to the high rate of net emigration (459,000
persons in the last decade). As a result of increasing urbanization, the per-
centage of rural population has dropped from 24% in 1961 to less than 15% in
1973. About 86% of the adult population is literate.
Economic Development
2.02      Greece has experienced a long period of rapid economic growth,
averaging 7.8% p.a. during the 1960's and about 9% p.a. between 1968 and 1973.
As a result of this economic expansion together with resident population growth,
GNP per  capita   has almost trebled since the early 1960's to reach a level of
about US$1,780 in 1974. Manufacturing, construction and services (including
tourism) have replaced agriculture as the leading sectors of the economy, in
terms of both output and employment. At present, the industrial sector employs
about 25% of the total labor force and the service sector about 33%. Open un-
employment is negligible, although underemployment still persists in rural areas.
Economic Development Strategy
2.03      The basic goals of socio-economic development strategy in Greece
are to pursue rapid industrialization, modernize the institutional framework
of the society and reduce regional income disparities.
2.04      Major economic development targets having important implications
for education policy and planning are:
(i) reversal of the recent decline in the total labor force
through appropriate emigration and training policies;
(ii)  manpower redistribution from low productivity to high
productivity sectors;
(iii) modernization of agriculture to offset the expected sharp
decline in agricultural manpower;
(iv)  rapid increase in industrial productivity to improve the
economy's competitive position vis-a-vis the EEC;
(v) more balanced regional development through fiscal and other
incentives to backward areas.



-3-
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements
2.05      Attainment of the economic development objectives indicated above
will require a substantial improvement in the educational level and specific
skill training of the labor force. A projection of manpower needs in the
period 1975-1987 is included in the Perspective Development Plan and is
summarized below together with the present outputs of the education and
training system (detailed projections of manpower needs by professions are
reproduced in Annex 3):
Expected Outputs
Projected Annual  Present Outputs  from Bank Education
Occupational               Manpower Needs   of the Education         Projects
Groups                    1975-1987           System          I & II   Proposed
Project
1. Professionals
(University Education)   12,000             11,000             800        -
2, Technicians (Post-
secondary, Non-
University Education)    15,000              5,000           3,000      1,500
3. Skilled Office workers
(Secondary General
Education)               23,000            25,000             -          600
4. Skilled Manual Workers
(Vocational Training)    44,000             20,000          11,300     1,400
2.06      The above table suggests that the aggregate supply of university
graduates is only slightly below the projected demand of the labor market.
However, since employment perspectives are different for different special-
izations with greatly varying outputs, surpluses and shortages of graduates
in different specializations exists. A more detailed analysis is needed to
determine the extent of these imbalances and their significance in the further
development of the university system. 1/
2.07      On the other hand, it appears that technician training at the post-
secondary level is still underdeveloped. Providing an adequate supply for
all specializations in the period 1975-1987 would require an average annual
output of at least 15,000 technicians, which is three times as much as the
present output capacity of the system and about twice the expected output
when the institutions being built under the first project will start pro-
ducing at full capacity. Employment forecasts show that about 85% of tech-
nicians will be employed in manufacturing industry, construction, transport
ard communication, trade and related services (Annex 3). A growing demand is
expected for new specializations such as chemical engineering, electronic en-
gineering, textile and leather technology, heating engineering, instrument
technology and optical mechanics.
The post-secondary education system development study, included in this
project, should provide further insight into this problem.



- 4 -
2.08      In absolute terms, the greatest need for skill training is expected
to be for craftsmen and skilled workers. The average annual demand, 1975-
1987, for these categories is estimated at about 44,000 (Annex 3), compared
with an annual output of about 20,000 from all existing vocational training
institutions and an output capacity of about 31,300 when the vocational
training centers financed under the second Bank project will become fully
operational.
III. THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
The Present System (Annex 2)
3.01      The formal education system has a three-tiered structure of:  (i)
six years of compulsory primary education normally beginning at age 6; (ii)
six years of secondary education divided into a first and second cycle of
three years each; and (iii) one to six years of higher education in universi-
ties or other post-secondary institutions. The Ministry of National Educa-
tion and Religions is responsible for all private and public education, except
for a number of vocational schools administered by the Ministries of Agricul-
ture, Social Welfare, Labor, Merchant Marine and the National Tourism Organ-
ization. Although there is a planning group within the Ministry of Education,
overall educational planning is the responsibility of the Ministry of Coor-
dination and Planning.
3.02      The education system is quantitatively well developed.  Primary
education is universal, 72% of the relevant age group attend secondary schools
and 11% are in higher education. Retention and progression rates are general-
ly high, and virtually 100% of primary and general secondary teachers and 90%
of the technical secondary teachers are academically qualified. There are no
significant imbalances in enrollment between boys and girls, except in higher
education.
3.03      These enviable characteristics, however, are somewhat offset by
some negative features which adversely affect the quality and relevance of
education. An inordinate concern for the role of the education system in
preserving the nation's cultural heritage and the lack of education research
activities have resulted in an over-emphasis on traditional, classical educa-
tion at all levels and a resistance to adapting the education system to the
needs of a changing economy and society. Consequently, curricula have become
increasingly irrelevant for the majority of students not continuing beyond
the first grades of secondary education as well as for those who want to
enter vocational or technical careers. In addition, although qualified
academically, most teachers in secondary and higher education neither have
received adequate pedagogical training nor have been exposed to modern cur-
ricula, with the result that, as a group, they do not constitute a force
which could stimulate change.



3.04      The emphasis on classical education at the secondary level is
reflected in the priority given to the traditional academic schools (the
"lgymnasia"), where enrollments have increased from 226,000 in 1957/58 to
488,000 in 1972/73. This has produced two types of distortions. Firstly,
insufficient resources have been allocated to the expansion of vocational
training and technical education, which - in spite of the rapid growth in
recent years of such private schools operated for profit - remain qualita-
tively inadequate and unable to meet the growing manpower requirements of
the economy. Secondly, as the gymnasia recruit students at the end of the
primary cycle and the system does not allow any horizontal transfers at a
later stage, students are forced to make irreversible vocational choices at
an early age, when neither skills nor aptitudes can be assessed adequately.
3.05      Because of the academic bias of the system and its influence in
shaping students' attitudes and expectations, post-secondary non-university
education (which is largely technical) has expanded slowly and at present
represents only 12% of total higher education enrollments. On the other hand,
with the rapid increase in the numbers of classical secondary school graduates
without marketable skills, demand for university admission and consequently
university expansion has become increasingly intense. Since 1961, first year
university enrollments have more than doubled, with only negligible increases
in space and some 30% increase in teaching staff.
3.06      At present, the four autonomous universities and the seven institu-
tions with university status enroll about 80,000 students, of whom more than
40% are in the classical disciplines of theology, philosophy, law and poli-
tical science which offer limited employment opportunities. Reform and re-
orientation of the university system are needed, but the government has en-
countered difficulties in motivating the older autonomous universities to
change. The traditional professorial system and the practice of electing
rectors for short periods (one to three years) stifle innovation and long-
term planning, and hinder the required pedagogical, organizational and
administrative reforms.
Educational Development Strategy
3.07      Although some broad guidelines for educational reform as well as
detailed enrollment targets (Annex 4) are provided by the Perspective Devel-
optient Plan 1972-1987, educational development strategy is not well defined
at present. Long standing traditions, powerful institutionalized interests,
conflicting social and educational ideologies and limited funding allocated
to education make any substantial reform of the education system difficult.
However, there is a growing awareness among educators, parents and employers
of the need for change if the education system is to serve better the country's
development needs.
3.08      Within this framework, the following corrective measures presently
envisaged by the government for the period to 1987 represent a first step
in the right direction:



- 6 -
(i) extension of universal compulsory education to include grades
1 through 9 with concomitant phasing out of the lower voca-
tional schools (grades 7-9), provision of more adequate teach-
ing materials and rationalization of school locations;
(ii) continuing reform of the apprenticeship system and provision
of increased opportunities for accelerated vocational training
of adults;
(iii) further curriculum diversification at the secondary level with
channelling of a greater proportion of students into mathematics-
science and technical courses; improved testing, selection and
guidance services; gradual deceleration to 4% p.a. in the ex-
pansion of general secondary education; and parallel expansion
of vocational training (7% p.a.);
(iv) rapid growth (12% p.a.) and regionalization of higher technician
training through the establishment of a number of new centers
for diploma level technical education in developing industrial
areas of the country; and
(v) controlled expansion of intake into the universities
(about 5% p.a.), with reorientation toward science and
technology and introduction of pedagogical training of
secondary school teachers.
Education Expenditures (Annexes 5 and 6)
3.09      Compared with other European countries, Greece is spending only a
small proportion of its national resources on education: in 1973, public
education expenditures accounted for 11% of total government expenditures and
total education expenditures (including private) represented a modest 3.8% of
GDP. These percentages have changed little over the past decade.
3.10      As can be expected in a situation of slow population growth and
universal primary education, the share of primary education in the Ministry
of Education recurrent budget has been steadily decreasing from 50% in 1968
to 43% in 1973 (Annex 5). University education's share has increased during
the same period from 13% to 18%. Only 4.4% of the Ministry's recurrent ex-
penditure in 1973 was spent on technical education at secondary and post-
secondary levels compared with 27.4% allocated to general secondary education,
which reflects the low priority attached to technical studies. In terms of
functional distribution of expenditures, salaries and transfers to universi-
ties accounted for 97% of the recurrent budget, with a meager 1.5% allocated
to the purchase of educational materials and supplies (Annex 5).
3.11      The projected enrollment expansion during the period to 1987 (para
3.08) together with the expected rapid increase in the proportion of students
enrolled in the more expensive vocational training and technical education and
the planned reduction in student/teacher ratios at all levels could entail a
seven-fold increase in public recurrent expenditures on education between



-7-
1973 and 1987 (Annex 6). Provided that national income continues to increase
at an average rate of 7% p.a. in real terms, public recurrent expenditures on
education would increase from 2.0% to 4.4% of GDP, which is the present level
of many Western European countries. Due to administrative constraints, how-
ever, it is doubtful that this level of expenditure can be reached as it is
unlikely that all planning targets will be attained by 1987.
3.12      If the planned targets are achieved by 1987, the above distribution
of recurrent expenditures by levels and types of education would shift in favor
of vocational training and technical education, which would increase to about
28% of public educational recurrent expenditures (15% at secondary and 13% at
post-secondary non-university level), while the proportion allocated to gen-
eral secondary education would decline to 25% and university education's share
would remain roughly constant at 18% (Annex 6). Total investment required in
school buildings and equipment would be about DR 25 billion in the period
1973-1977, about DR 32 billion in 1978-1982 and DR 38 billion in 1983-1987,
which corresponds to only 9% of total public investments envisaged by the
Plan for the same period.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) expand technician and industrial craft training in accord-
ance with manpower needs;
(ii) assist in improving the relevance and quality of general
secondary education by providing pilot multilateral schools;
(iii) provide detailed plans for establishing a Center of Pedagogi-
cal Studies by financing a pre-investment study of the pro-
posed Center;
(iv) stimulate the re-orientation of post-secondary education by
financing a post-secondary education system development study;
and
(v) identify methods to improve local production of educational
equipment and other learning materials.
Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) Construction, furniture and equipment for



-8-
Estimated    New
Annual    Annual    Student  Student
Grade   Enrollment  Output    Places   Boarding
Five Accelerated Training
Centers                   ungraded      1,380    1,400         930       590
Three Higher Technical
Education Centers
(KATE's)                   13-15        3,960    1,500      3,960      1,200
Ten Pilot Multilateral
Secondary Schools            7-12      17,450    2,900    17,450          -
22,790    5,800    22,340       1,790
(b) the studies described in (iii), (iv), and (v) above; and
(c) Related technical assistance.
Further details on enrollments, outputs, student/teacher ratios and use fac-
tors in the proposed schools are given in Annex 7.
Accelerated Training Centers
4.02      The proposed five accelerated training centers would provide two-year
courses for apprentices and six-month accelerated trade training courses for
adults; in addition, short courses of varying duration would be organized on an
ad hoc basis to upgrade the skills of workers already employed. The range of
specializations offered in the Centers are similar to those in the second
education project and would include maintenance mechanics, machinery, welding,
plumbing, automotive mechanics, electricity, carpentry, masonry, blacksmithing,
timber mouldering and agricultural mechanics. The selection of trades to be
taught in each center, varying from five to eight (Annex 8), would depend on
the manpower needs of the area to be served.
4.03      When fully operational, the centers' combined annual output would be
about 960 from the accelerated trade training courses and 450 from the appren-
tice program. The centers would be located in areas of growing population and
industrial development. Selected in accordance with government priorities
for regional development, which should ensure easy placement of graduates, the
centers would train workers leaving rural employment in skills applicable to
regional crafts and thus tend to reduce population movement to the cities.
4.04      The training of the approximately 70 instructors and administrators
required for the proposed centers would be carried out in the Ministry of
Labor training centers, which have adequate capacity for this number and are
well equipped to provide such training.



Higher Technical Education Centers (KATE's)
4.05      To help alleviate the shortage of higher technicians in all sectors
of the economy (para 2.07), the project would include three new higher tech-
nical education centers (KATEs) in regional centers experiencing increased
industrialization. As an extension to the program of five similar centers
financed under the first education project, these centers would be multi-
disciplinary, post-secondary technical institutions, catering for students
enrolled in a variety of related study programs and thereby achieving more
efficient use of specialized teachers, equipment and teaching areas through
economies of scale.
4.06      The centers would enroll a total of about 4,000 students in two-and
three-year courses after grade 12, corresponding to an annual steady-state
output of approximately 1,500 higher technicians. No difficulties will be
experienced in recruiting this number of qualified students because demand by
students for this type of training is high; 13,500 applied in September 1974,
for the 3,000 places available in the KATEs financed under the first Bank
education project. The centers would provide basic specializations such as
mechanical, electrical and civil engineering, accountancy and secretarial
work, which are much in demand throughout many sectors of the economy, as well
as new specializations, such as chemical engineering, electronic engineering,
textile and leather technology, heating engineering, instrument technology and
optical mechanics, which would meet the more specific manpower needs of indus-
try in the regions that these centers would serve. A summary of enrollments
and outputs from each specialization in each proposed Center is given in Annex
9. Part-time upgrading and refresher courses would also be organized for
students already in employment, as the need arises.
4.07      The programs of study for the proposed Centers would include suf-
ficient theory to permit graduates to work effectively with professional per-
sonnel and to perform their more routine duties. In addition, instruction in
practical skills would be provided in sufficient depth to enable the graduates
to perform and demonstrate complex skills and procedures. Graduates would be
capable, after acquiring adequate experience, of advancing to supervisory
positions.
4.08      Curricula for the basic specializations are satisfactory.  Curri-
culum outlines developed by the government for the new specializations are
also acceptable, and would allow for adjustments of courses in response to
changing industrial needs as well as for horizontal transfers of students
from one specialization to another. To develop further these curricula,
about 21 man-years of experts' services have been included in the proposed
program of technical assistance.
4.09      Under the first education project, a program was established for the
training of KATE teachers at the Technical and Vocational Teacher Training
School (SELETE) in Athens, a UNDP/UNESCO sponsored institution. This program
would also meet the teacher training needs of the proposed new Centers. In
addition, sixteen fellowships would be provided for further training and up-
grading of the teachers required for the new specializations mentioned above.



- 10 -
Multilateral Secondary Schools
4.10      The project would assist the government in experimenting with new
forms of general secondary education by providing a pilot multilateral second-
ary school in each of the 10 school districts which would combine general
education and technical courses on the same premises, under common management
and with new experimental curricula. Total enrollments in the proposed
schools would be about 17,500 students. Three schools would be constructed
in large urban centers and the others in provincial townships.
4.11      The new schools would differ from existing secondary schools in a
number of aspects:
(i) the first cycle (grades 7-9) would provide a common curriculum
for all students without differentiation between those who
would later pursue an academic or a technical career;
(ii) the common curriculum in the first cycle would include four
hours per week of workshop instruction and place more em-
phasis on natural sciences;
(iii)  the second cycle (grades 10-12) would offer a choice between
academic programs (arts, science, commerce) and technical
programs (mechanics, electricity, building), both sharing
part of the facilities and, to the maximum extent possible,
the same teaching staff;
(iv)  the classical orientation of existing curricula would be
de-emphasized: in the arts stream, the proportion of time
devoted to modern Greek, foreign languages and social sciences
would be increased from 27% to 43%; in the science stream,
ancient Greek would be reduced from 14% to 8% but mathematics,
natural sciences and foreign languages would be increased
from 40% to 54% of the total curriculum; the commercial stream
would reduce the time allocated to ancient Greek from 13% to
8% and increase that of foreign languages and social sciences
from 16% to 24%; and
(v)  in contrast with existing practices, the best graduates from
the technical programs would have access to post-secondary
technical institutions such as the KATE's.
4.12      Detailed curricula and syllabi for the proposed schools would be
designed by a technical assistance team (8 man-years) financed by the project
and would be presented to the Bank for comments not later than three years
after the signing of the Loan Agreement. Given the experimental nature of
these curricula, the government has provided assurances that: (i) an evalua-
tion system to compare educational efficiency and achievements in the multi-
lateral schools and in a representative sample of other secondary schools will
be made operative within six months of the opening of the multilateral schools;
and (ii) the proposed experimental curricula in the project schools will not
be changed before a systematic evaluation of their use has been made.



- 11 -
4.13.          Each proposed school would be administered by a general director,
assisted by two principals, one for the academic section and one for the tech-
nical section. A senior administrator would coordinate the use of common
facilities, which would include workshops. The government has provided assur-
ances that these officials will be appointed before the opening of the new
schools and will participate in a training program comprising visits to
similar schools in other countries before taking up their new assignments.
For this purpose, 40 fellowships averaging 3 months each have been included
in the proposed program of technical assistance.
4.14      Because these schools would provide instruction in shopworks within
secondary schools for the first time in Greece and would also include curricula
of an experimental nature, preparation of all teachers to up-grade their teach-
ing standards and knowledge of the new curricula would be desirable. This
would be possible in training programs of about three months duration con-
ducted in the summers prior to the schools' opening. The effectiveness of
the programs would be improved if the trainees already had at least two years
of teaching experience, but this would not be mandatory. Academic subject
teachers would concentrate on new teaching methods, use of instructional equip-
ment to encourage student participation and improve practical work, and the
new orientation of the curricula. Academic teachers could be trained in three
regional centers (e.g. Athens, Salonika, and Patras) where teaching staff,
facilities and accommodation would be available. The 200 technical teachers
would be trained at the Technical and Vocational Teacher Training School in
Athens (para. 4.09). About 8 experts (4 man-years), financed under the loan,
would assist local professors in designing and teaching these programs over
two consecutive summers. The experts would be skilled in modern teaching
techniques and be familiar with the use of equipment in their particular fields
of specialization.
4.15      The government has provided an assurance that (i) the above teacher
training programs would be conducted and (ii) the teaching staffs of the multi-
lateral schools would be selected sufficiently early to permit scheduling of
their participation in these programs.
Pre-investment Study of the Center of Pedagogical Studies
4.16      The proposed Center of Pedagogical Studies would perform three im-
portant functions, which at present are not fulfilled by any other comparable
institutions in Greece: (i) educational research; (ii) pedagogical training
of university students to prepare them for secondary teaching; and (iii) train-
ing of educational planners and administrators. The Center would represent an
important first step away from the traditional education pattern in Greek
universities and, with further intensification of pedagogical programs (which
is likely after the Center has gained experience and academic stature), could
be instrumental in modernizing teaching at the secondary level and promoting
educational reform at all levels. However, many of the operational aspects
of the Center have not yet been sufficiently defined to warrant Bank financing
of construction and equipment at this time.



- 12 -
4.17      The pre-investment study would comprise three elements:
(a) a study of the academic requirements of the Center which
would include entrance and selection procedures, nature
and length of study courses, methods of staff selection
and training, fields of post-graduate studies and research,
provision of continuing education services, determination
of the university in which the Center would be located,
relationships with other faculties within the university
and with other post-secondary institutions, practice
teaching organization and facilities, organization of the
administrative structure and preparation of necessary
legislation;
(b) a study of the physical requirements of the Center in
relation to existing facilities and plans for the univer-
sity's development and to prepare preliminary drawings
and detailed cost estimates for site development, construc-
tion, furniture and equipment; and
(c) a program for training of key administrative and teaching
personnel, including the provision of 10 man-years of
fellowships, to enable them to visit similar institutions
in other countries and to enable selected teaching staff
to undertake visits and obtain overseas training in desig-
nated areas with particular emphasis on modern teaching
techniques.
4.18      This study would be undertaken in close collaboration with the
proposed Post-Secondary Education System Development Study. It would prepare
such detailed plans and legislative proposals to ensure that the Center could
be implemented without delay thereafter. The results of the study are ex-
pected to be available not later than 18 months from the Loan Agreement date.
Post-Secondary Education System Development Study
4.19      As a first step toward a possible reform and reorientation of the
post-secondary education system, a sttidy of the present and projected devel-
opment of the post-secondary education system would be financed by the project.
The study would include a diagnosis of the present situation, detailed pro-
posals for pedagogical and institutional reforms, an analysis of the needs
for future expansion of post-secondary education in various fields and iden-
tification of priority areas for future investments including proposals for
the establishment of new educational universities. The study would focus on
critical issues such as employment perspectives for post-secondary graduates
(at both national and regional levels); admission policies; organization and
administration of studies; post-graduate studies and research; organization,
administration and finance; and relations with cultural, social and economic
agencies outside the post-secondary education system. The study would be



- 13 -
conducted by a team of specialists (12.5 man-years) under the supervision of
the Ministry of Coordination and Planning and the Ministry of National Educa-
tion and Religions and would be completed in about 18 months.
Feasibility Study of an Education Materials Production Unit
4.20      To assist the government in identifying methods to improve the
supply of educational equipment and other learning materials at reasonable
cost, the project would finance 3 man-years of specialists services for a feas-
ibility study of the expansion and/or retooling of the Education Materials
Production Unit. The study would include: (i) assessment of present and
expected equipment lists for primary and secondary schools and evaluation of
current procurement practices; (ii) analysis of production methods and costs
at the existing Education Materials Production Unit; (iii) study of possible
new production processes at the Unit and the required physical and manpower
resources; and (iv) comparison of the Unit's likely unit production costs
and the cost of commercially available equipment to identify those items for
which an extended and modernized Unit could be the more economical source
of supply.
4.21      For this study and for the other two studies described above (paras
4.16 and 4.19), terms of reference would be provided to the Bank for comment,
and qualified expatriate specialists and consultant architects, as required
by these studies, would be appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
Technical Assistance
4.22      The program of technical assistance, described under each proposed
project item above, would total about 35 man-years of fellowships and 55 man-
years of specialist services (including 5 man-years of specialist services for
the Project Implementation Unit). Further details on the proposed program and
its phasing are given in Annex 10.



- 14 -
Cost of the Project
4.23        The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various parts of
the project are sumarized below  2/:
Drachma (million)          US$(million)            % of Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total  Line Costs
Five Accelerated
Training Centers            109.75   94.89      204.64    3.66    3.16         6.82      9.1
Three Higher Technical
Education Centers           341.32  341.89      683.21   11.38   11.39        22.77    30.2
Ten Multilateral
Secondary Schools           686.29  484.49   1,170.78   22.88   16.15         39.03    51.8
Consultant Architects'
Services                    118.37    0.00      118.37    3.95    0.00         3.95     5.2
Pre-investment Study-Center
of Pedagogical Studies        3.00    6.00        9.00    0.10    0.20         0.30     0.4
Post-Secondary Education
System
Development Study             3.00   12.00       15.00    0.10    0.40         0.50     0.7
Feasibility Study of
Education Material
Production Unit               0.72    2.88        3.60    0.02    0.10         0.12     0.2
Technical Assistance            10.79   43.19       53.98    0.36    1.44         1.80     2.4
Base Line Cost            1,273.24  985.34   2,258.58   42.45   32.84         75.29   100.0
Contingencies
Physical Contingericies     125.07   82.80      207.87    4.17    2.76         6.93     9.2
Price Increase              410.26  292.49      702.75   13.67    9.75        23.42    31.1
Sub-Total                   535.33  375.29      910.62   17.84   12.51        30.35    40.3
Total Project Cost        1,808.57 1,360.63  3,169.20   60.29   45-35        105.64
(say 45.0)
!s stimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 12.



- 15
4.24      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
recently approved contracts for the first education project and on informa-
tion on the cost of other schools recently constructed in Greece. Equipment
and furniture cost estimates are based on reasonable unit prices for each
category of goods.
4.25      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated costs of civil works and
furniture, and 7% of equipment. The price escalation contingency has been
calculated for the period beginning in April, 1975 (the date of negotiations)
based on anticipated price increases of 15% for the first year, 12% for tbe
second and third years and 10% for the fourth year for construction; 12% for
the first year, 10% for the second and third years and 8% for the fourth year
for equipment; and 15% for the first year, 12% for the second and third years,
and 10% for the fourth year for furniture. Because inflation in Greece 'as
not differed significantly from the European countries and because of diffi-
culties in forecasting future differences, the same rate of price increases
has been applied to both foreign and local cost estimates. During the project
implementation period, prices are expected to increase by about 31% for civil
works, 17% for professional services, 32% for furniture, 24% for equipment
and 19% for technical assistance (Annex 13). Accordingly, price contingences
are estimated at about 28.4% of base line costs plus physical contingencies.
4.26      The estimated foreign exchange component is about US$45 million
equivalent or about 43% of the total project cost. It was calculated as
follows: (i) civil works, 30X; (ii) furniture, 50%; (iii) equipment, 90%;
and (iv) technical assistance, 80%.
4.27      The annual recurrent costs generated by the institutions included
in the proposed project would be about Dr 400 million, which represent about
0.8% of the projected public recurrent expenditures on education in 1987.
Financial Plan
4.28      The proposed loan would finance virtually 100% of the total estimated
foreign exchange component of the project with the balance financed by the gov-
ernment. The distribution by categories of expenditures would be as follows:
Government            Bank             Total
(US$ million)   %   (US$ million  %   (US$ million)
1.  Civil Works                         47.60       74       16.50      26      64.10
2.  Furniture                            0.56       10        5.21      90       5.77
3.  Equipment                            1.88       10       17.29      90      19.17
4.  Cons. Architects' Services           4.43      100        0.00       0       4.43
5.  Studies                              0.22       20        0.87      80       1.09
6.  Technical Assistance                 0.41       20        1.73      80       2.14
Base Line Cost                      55.10       57      41.60      43       96.70
7.  Contingencies                        5.54       62        3.40      38       8.94
Total                               60.64       57      45.00      43      105.64



- 16 -
Implementation
4.29      The Programming and Planning Section of the Ministry of Education,
which is responsible for the design, construction and equipping of the five
pedagogical academies within the second Bank education project, would be
responsible for the implementation of all project items within this project,
except the accelerated training centers. The accelerated training centers
would be assigned to the Technical Services Unit of the Manpower Employment
Organization in the Ministry of Labor which is responsible for the accelerated
training centers financed under the second Bank education project.
4.30      The Central Project Unit, established under the second education
project, would be responsible for (i) ensuring overall management, coordina-
tion and supervision of the agencies and units involved in the implementation
of the three projects; (ii) providing technical advice to such agencies and
units as may be required; and (iii) maintaining liaison with the Bank. Due
to the additional workload that the project would impose on the Unit, the
government has provided an assurance that additional staff would be employed,
including a qualified and experienced architect and programming officer to
be appointed within six months after the signing of the Loan Agreement, and
qualified and experienced experts in engineering, equipment procurement and
other specialized fields, to a total of 5 man-years, as required for the im-
plementation of the Project. The terms and conditions of employment of con-
sultants and experts whose services are to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan would be acceptable to the Bank.
4.31      The project schools would be designed by consultant architects/
engineers acceptable to the Bank and appointed under terms and conditions
agreeable to the Bank. An adequate supply of qualified architects and civil
engineers is available in Greece.
4.32      The sites already selected for the proposed project's institutions
are located on the outskirts of the cities where land can be purchased at
lower cost, and are adequate. Sites for eight institutions have yet to be
chosen. The government has provided an assurance that these sites will be
selected in accordance with criteria already agreed upon by the government
and the Bank, and that each site will be determined prior to making a prelim-
inary design of the buildings for that site.
4.33      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. It is expected that
few foreign firms will submit bids, as Greece has a well developed and compet-
itive construction industry.
4.34      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for
the Bank's review prior to procurement. These lists would identify all items
or categories of items costing more than US$3,000, the residual items being
included in one miscellaneous category not exceeding US$100,000 for each in-
stitution. Items would be grouped to the extent possible to form sizeable
packages to permit bulk procurement. Furniture and equipment contracts,



- 17 -
except for the items included in the miscellaneous category, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable
to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Contracts
for the items in the miscellaneous category would be awarded under normal
government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and
which would include price quotations from at least three suppliers. Nearly
all equipment is expected to be obtained from foreign manufacturers, while
virtually all furniture contracts would probably be awarded to local firms.
4.35      The project would be implemented over a period of about 5 years after
the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 14). Construction as well as procure-
ment and installation of equipment and furniture are expected to be completed
about 4-1/4 years after the signing of the Loan, with one additional year
allowed for guarantee and liabilities. Final disbursements would be made
and all accounts closed within the following six months. The Closing Date
would be December 31, 1980.
Disbursements (Annex 15)
4.36      Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (i) 100% of the c.i.f.
cost or ex-factory price for furniture and equipment; (ii) 100% of foreign
expenditure for technical assistance and the various studies; and (iii) about
26% of total expenditures for civil works. These percentages would be ad-
justed as necessary in order to distribute disbursements over the implementa-
tion period. Undisbursed funds, if any, would be available for further de-
velopment of the project in accordance with a program agreeable to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS
5.01      The proposed project would further reinforce the reform and expan-
sion of vocational training and technical education, which are being supported
by the first two Bank education projects. By increasing the annual output of
the system by about 2,400 at the craft level (about 1,400 from the five accel-
erated training centers and 1,000 from the vocational streams of the multi-
lateral schools) and 1,500 at the technician level, the project would assist
in alleviating about 10% and 15%, respectively, of the projected average
annual manpower shortages in the period to 1987, exclusive of the outputs
from the first two Bank education projects 1/. By providing training at
diploma level in new specializations such as chemical engineering, electronic
engineering, textile and leather technology, heating engineering, instrument
technology and optical mechanics, the project would support the growing di-
versification and technological sophistication of Greek industry, which is
one of the basic goals of the socio-economic development strategy of the
country.
1/   The first two Bank education projects together would meet about 47% and
31% of projected manpower shortages at craft and technician levels,
respectively.



- 18 -
5.02      At the same time, the project would represent a first step toward
much needed improvements in the relevance and quality of general secondary
education (a sector not covered by the two previous projects), by introducing
multilateral secondary schools, which would have, in addition, experimental
curricula. These innovations would represent a dramatic departure from the
established education pattern in Greece and could exert a strong influence in
stimulating further reforms of secondary education.
5.03      Among the preconditions for educational reform in Greece are im-
proved secondary teacher training and educational research, better planning
and administration of post-secondary education and greater availability of
more and better educational equipment and other learning materials. The
proposed project would assist in each of these areas through the financing
of a pre-investment study of a Center of Pedagogical Studies, a post-secondary
education system development study, and a feasibility study of the Education
Materials Production Unit.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i) a general director, two principals and a senior administrator
for each proposed multilateral school would be appointed be-
fore the opening of the school and would participate in a
training program comprising visits to similar schools in
other countries before taking up their assignments (para. 4.13);
(ii) in-service training programs of about three months duration will
be conducted for the teaching staffs of the multilateral schools
in the summers prior to the schools' openings; and the teaching
staffs of the multilateral schools would be selected sufficiently
early to permit scheduling of their participation in these pro-
grams (para. 4.15);
(iii)  terms of reference for the pre-investment study of the Center of
Pedagogical Studies, the post-secondary education system develop-
ment study and the feasibility study of the education materials
production unit would be provided to the Bank for comment, and
qualified specialists and consultant architects required by
these studies would be appointed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.21); and
(iv) a programming officer and an architect would be appointed to
the Central Project Unit within 6 months of the Loan Agreement
date, and additional qualified experts in engineering, equip-
ment procurement, and other specialized fields would be employed,
as required for the implementation of the project (para 4.30).



- 19 -
6.02      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$45.0 mil-
lion equivalent to the Hellenic State for a term of 15 years including a
grace period of 5 years.






t3f3iNfNSiN   NINOTt
tittes  N20NRNO                                                                                                                                                   imo 3125 
IT~~ ~~~3otdN        OtttNtiIt    Ndie                                                                                                       i ii            iolCtfe
Itttott(Sif                        ~       t0ii         Nitito           oiitt-             hisy        tCsi          ottit           Ntilsot              st           C3rtfmf   t            N4ties
(StuNt N-    ps.s2N'.o.s   Itotiecot NIsilsis    iooottestt   it            NSSii5ii oNN..if.te 14iitN2t 5
ills                  Iti         Mits         (Ntet54             oioos         itie    ii  Neti  ti               imutNt                     titie            itTo                      t                0,t
ONNNO3Nt35sttNi  deteti                                    33tCNNo.)    c  eettt 3NtN.                          Oitmi  3323         only         ftt.ottooTestts                                                 NoioN.           fuioeettlti,tstNSiN                   f3t.NetNi
icetti to. tie  etelistisi tO                                                          (CNN)~~~~~~..   ...91              141             4                1                                                                                                  I
veiiiei iIIiiNiNtivNNte2  et,3                                 31)               133               (3)           (43               (33              (C)           37)              (23            30)            (it)            3233                (223          3432)20  ll  I 
tie  toulysis oN teThitie  etitte  2t4A033tN~9                                                                                                                           70O                                                  I                   "
-f4iieittileettot I.                               1                    ltN -11                                                                                                          .                                              6"
ittisie  ti.i3tttei.   itteuto,  Aictoto            ~~~~~~~Itl   .5              t,to                   i            NIt                                              SN                                             149                                 22
Cti, In, 4i    ~    ieteOt                  O~y33                                  .               343                   SN             Nl             3.              33.2            1.               i5            1                iIii                                                    6
eels  ft itiideodiit litlttitisi   3.t.2.         iSO)    C3N.N               ~~~~~~                ~~                                  ~~5,5903fC  4.3  05.4       SN               2333         0               .. .             1f9
....et  I    ..ise    s.ptt             4-                              OS          . it523..2                                           39              .C DIN                          NI"3                           i               16t              a                  it                     I
ttietttt     It 43. t14stesIstt4ititk.          430is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "
23 tN3is.ott5~~~~ 2. Oifi..edti  5.  3.4.0.~103                      3.37i                                  .                              4.3N            23.3            353             Si             if123
3.  N3(,iNie                9 1 5    tS.  3               33                   1               f.           3.2              20.3            013            IS              I                9              3
Ci ilitilltt 22 Nit SNots 3eetl   S.  Abets       3033       Oti                3303                ...             Cf             4.3              21.33           ii              SN.S44                                        iN i7C
Neie.osiiote.....00               13.ise                       N         '22                ilS                   15            1l.5           6.6t.                             4               33           14                               Nm1                 Ci 
"eeogtd.eS    If  (oN.              629_oi                        N3         .3                 533                                 4.1          3.               Cf3             4                N                                             0NO330
eceetil.  NesitlooN.  CINNs..tt.502533  35.  ijieile  3933  5.33           o5f~~~~~~            25              N             3.0             01.3            333              53           CNNI 74                          Cl                  322                    03
3(   oeiie1.       ees3i    3N                  15.  iootte                  C3         13                  tCC                                               4.5             3.:IS                             C2                                            40
ii) stieNtloioINettN.  5 .                                  ....i            N3         .                  Ot0                                 i             3.                33             S               St            St                e             30                  ..1
oSS,e03NeS, ceeNtitliteN,  titeo lisos    37  z_tss              103       2.3l5                                                                   4.1  10 7.4                    03              33            C                                 2a1
It.Nefsds  1023  3,3C  tiN         ii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     t~~~~I'         00:3            120             33             1                               SN                 ...~~~~~~~~~~~4  .  3 
eoN eetttty t402055t3 PoSe 3000307    21. SiStie Lioii    1013   3.3 4  653~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                        1                               2                    2
tieyetetNIyeppiStSo.esSStNetsd     O2S.11 .. fo It   ..          0097     3.57                223                  33               NIs1.                                          3               3N2                                                                7e
73. 32iN55SN5t    52525.2       13                   5              3             Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1  23.  33               1            21               4              Nt                    N
.dtsstlitt  (Cite. 4 4 i3330ttS     IS16.  t....e                311        355                2  0 :41             1,50.62                                       33.4            450 1'                                                         2 
2)     (-otN Its   4ilt    35.3i          5.C    e.2t                 N 6)19t     .                                      41 I  SN                      I.,             ISN       ~     4                 1            N                2..0 
0)b   fos ,       tlyoside I ' s s e l                                       N47(       3.I 3              4359 3                                                                                                                                                                1
23.033220  OttO-ole.  40 tit  4.   335.S3,i              3232~~~~~~~19'  N4   s        23
.sSN3e3l toe  oIdt teri3so of toots  i.   1533,2203 O542N3~9 1033   3.3                340                  03             33             31,              12              2               33             51             32052
iftiet thet sit tubs. i) cN..3ii3e  3.  C5liOSS3O  2233  13.9  C           430 3                14 4           Nt             3,3 0           23.9             Sf I            30 456-9                      33 49                               20                   33
7.1ts.        371       403                53                    2              5                              23.             23              3              3               3242 
ti-   -1.."                . Vte   1e                 519       3.   1           134                      5              3             3.                03              533                         3                 C               5i
5 lot        1034      3233                oS                       A           I             3.3              33.3            372             3                             24 N            3                   2
7.  Isoq                   3233      NO.1 3              30                    3             2               ,                33             3                2            0 75                            Nt                  23
S. bebetto   1031    3.3 3                 730~~       ~      ~~~ ~~ 3I02      74N            40I20                           3                127          33                              2
23.   SN.l1yeli  Sf03   01.41               02~~~~~~~I13 I        0              3             0.4              13.             93               32           330               2             21                  2
23.   Gino..         1933~~~7   0.3               53                    23            22             23                 .             2               3               .20            2               2                 . 
01l    itSt                 f3         97                 123                                                2.33              2.433                                        31                                                  "IOt322
34.   ON~~~o~eptti ~1001         0.             3,3                      3.             2             32               1.              0 0             33 3;  713                     2t             24Ot2
27    Zif- t                1375      32.3  3              -3                                                                1 2  .3 so  i.  31 0             t             2 2             CS             C                    Cf2S
23.   35.oes2stbtep.    293~1   3.13               30                  1                30            ':7              91.4           104             43              05                             2N                ..                      20
0s212o                                               53~~~~~~~~~~~1.1  CO           43           1.                 01              3N          40                U0I                                  3
3.uso                                                iS                            4 .0          14.0              44l             13            2                                                                        420
-  oiniSNtidt 002 50 3500 Of Nist       I - 3916                              I   200~~~~~~~~~~~':~  M             .7              3~             1                I
3  t.~~,ttiIs  Ness 14.0 beif iO 3321    pNiysd  C - 1333~~~~l                        P*tOtIeiL24NS  NIieie                                                                 33-   9
QUisiieO                                                          02029ttorsO7NoetfNy                                                                                                             t(2(        2sN0st
S72 14e   pette           tlt.N-f.76   33Sla                                                                                                                                                  00-(i
71  1:1'                                    I ~~~~~~~~~~13i2 233  pNoet  efiiCts                                                               it    2)NNt0NstmN.    toitsdN
54-SttiNu    03084   sCl                           9t                                                               Nm0N  Niestee
(,-.)  (--.)  (1-3-)          (I--)            (I.-72)    (-75)           (I-41)           ('-")ApeNi         oSlO..-11






ANNEX 2
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1. The Ministry of National Education and Religion is responsible for all
private and public education from pre-primary through university levels, ex-
cept for a number of vocational schools administered by the Ministries of
Agriculture, Social Welfare (Health), Labor and Merchant Marine and the
National Tourism Organization. The Ministry of Planning and Coordination
has responsibility for perspective educational planning and for approving
sectoral programs and all external education financing.
2. The Ministry of Education is highly structured (Chart 1). Ten education
regions, recently established, permit closer and more effective inspection
and limited local administrative action.
3. The education system has a three-tiered structure (Chart 2), comprising
six primary grades of compulsory education, six secondary grades divided into
upper and lower cycles of three years each, and up to six years of post-sec-
ondary education. Evening schools provide primary and secondary education,
with the latter extended to four years in each cycle, within the formal sys-
tem.
Pre-primary and Primary Education
4. Pre-primary education in 1972 enrolled about 99,000 students or 35% of
the 4-5 year age-group. This enrollment is increasing at an average rate of
10% p.a. Attendance is limited to four hours per day. Schools are small and
numerous: with few exceptions, the 2,600 public schools each have only one
teacher; about 75% of the 370 private schools employ two teachers.
5.   School attendance is compulsory from age 5 through 11.  Due to evening
primary schools for adolescents and over-age pupils in day schools, enroll-
ment in primary education represents 100% of the age-group, Although the
total number of students at this level has decreased from 914,000 in 1970 to
909,000 in 1972, repeater rates vary between 1% in grade 6 and 12% in grade 1:
these rates are decreasing annually, with the rate for girls consistently
lower than that for boys. The national average of one teacher per 33 students
at the primary level appears satisfactory but conceals oversized classes in
the cities. Since 1970, some consolidation of schools has occurred in rural
areas with the closing of smaller schools.
6. At the end of the sixth grade, a Primary Leaving Certificate is awarded.
In 1972, only 63% and 10% of these students were admitted to the lower gymna-
sia and technical schools respectively because separate entrance examinations
select students for the limited number of places available.
Secondary General Education
7. For students normally aged 12 through 18 the gymnasia offer a two-cycle
traditional academic education with a strongly classical orientation. All
subjects are compulsory in the lower cycle. A choice between arts and science
programs is offered in the upper three-year cycle except in smaller, rural



ANNEX 2
Page 2
gymnasia having a common course, in the 48 secondary schools with an exclu-
sively economic emphasis and the 14 with a nautical program. Teaching in all
gymnasia is predominantly theoretical with limited facilities for student
practical activity. Enrollments in the gymnasia have increased by an average
of 5% p.a. since 1960. In 1972, over 488,000 students were enrolled in gym-
nasia out of almost 600,000, representing 72% of the 12-17 year age-group,
enrolled in all types of secondary education. In the gymnasia, drop-out
rates are low with repeater rates varying between 10% and 14% and promotion
rates of 80-83% for grades 7 through 11. In the final year, repeater rates
drop to 2% or lower. The teacher:pupil ratio of 1:34 reflects oversized
classes resulting from admitting students in excess of the capacity of the
public gymnasia. The ratio of 1:22 in private gymnasia is more satisfactory.
Such private schools accommodate only 7% of general secondary enrollments.
8.   Transition from gymnasia to post-secondary education requires the stu-
dent to possess not only the Gymnasium Leaving Certificate but to pass an
entrance examination. For university entry this examination varies according
to the specialization the student wishes to undertake. Intake numbers are
determined annually. Private institutions offer additional preparation courses
for gymnasia graduates which effectively delay admission to universities by at
least one year. Of those graduating from gymnasia to 1970, the maximum rates
of eventual entry to post-secondary institutions were about 5% to pedagogical
institutes, 13% to higher schools (commercial, economics, fine arts and politi-
cal science institutes) and 29% to universities.
Secondary Vocational and Technological Education
9.   Students entering secondary education are not permitted to transfer be-
tween gymnasia and vocational schools. This requires a premature choice of
career at the end of the primary cycle. However, graduates (grades 12) of
gymnasia are accepted into the second year of the middle vocational schools
(grades 10-12).
10. Vocational and technical schools enroll less than 20% of all secondary
students. The annual average growth rate since 1970 has been a high 9%. Ap-
proximately 70% of these vocational and technical schools, catering for about
75% of total enrollments of about 112,000, are privately owned although they
come under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Education which sub-
sidizes the annual fees for each trainee.
11. In lower vocational schools (grades 7-9), general academic subjects oc-
cupy 40% of the curriculum; the 60% devoted to practical work and related
theory leads to a certificate of proficiency in the respective trade (mechani-
cal, electrical, building, auto-mechanics, home economics, etc.). Middle vo-
cational schools prepare semi-skilled technicians for more than 20 trades;
graduates of these schools can be accepted into the higher technical education
centers (KATEs) for post-secondary non-university studies.
12- Five agricultural secondary schools are administered by the Ministry of
National Economy (Department of Agriculture, Agricultural and Advisory Service).
Couises range from a one-year lower level course to a four year course. The
system is being restructured to a second level under the Second Bank Education
Loan. Students wishing to enter agriculture at the post-secondary level attend



ANNEX 2
Page 3
general gymnasia. Equipment and facilities are limited and teaching is mainly
theoretical in agricultural secondary schools.
Post-Secondary Non-University Education
13. Post-secondary technical education enrolled nearly 6,500 students in 1971
in mechanical (13%), electrical (13%) and civil engineering (18%), electronics
(52%) and ship-building (4%). Twelve private schools and nine public schools
(including 5 new KATEs financed under the First Bank Loan) provide training
from one to four years depending on specialization. The average annual growth
rate, in 1971-72, for higher technical education was nearly 6%.
Teacher Training
14. Post-secondary courses of pre-service teacher training are provided for
pre-primary, primary and vocational teachers. In 1972, three two-year train-
ing schools enrolled 500 students in pre-primary courses.. The eight Pedagogi-
cal Academics enrolled 2,500 students and specialist schools of gymnastics
and home economics trained about 1,200 students. About 700 students were en-
rolled in the School for Teachers of Vocational and Technical Education (SELETE)
in pedagogical courses of either six months or one year duration. The output
of trained teachers from all these institutions was about 2,200 in 1972.
15. The 14,800 gymnasia teachers are expected to hold a university degree in
the specialization taught. However, only 1-2 hours per week in one year of
the degree courses are devoted to general pedagogical studies. In addition,
accelerated courses in pedagogics, lasting one or two semesters, are given
by the Secondary Teachers' Inservice Training College for newly appointed gym-
nasia teachers. Teachers of physical education, home economics, art and music
receive diplomas from their respective specialized higher institutions. In
spite of the fact that secondary teaching is the only available employment for
many university graduates, none of the four universities has developed teacher
training programs.
16.  Full-time in-service teacher training courses at all levels are limited.
Only about 30 technical and 160 secondary teachers are able to enroll in one
and two-year courses respectively. Short courses are provided by the Pedago-
gical Academies for primary teachers. Formal instruction for teachers moving
into administrative and supervisory positions is inadequate in approach and
orientation.
17. Trained technical teachers and workshop instructors are scarce; more than
60%O teach on a part-time basis (less than 13 hours per week).  Evening classes
at all levels are taught by teachers, already employed during the day, for up
to 10 periods per week in paid overtime teaching.
University Education
18, Four autonomous universities and seven institutions with university status
had a total enrollment of about 80,000 students in 1972 which represents a
growth of more than 6% p.a. since 1966 when the latest university (Patras) was
established. In addition to four commercial institutes enrolling about 19,000
students, an agricultural school for about 1,000 students, a school of Fine
Arts for about 200 students and the Athens Polytechnion with an enrollment of
over 3,000 complement the traditional disciplines of the universities.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
19. The disciplines of theology, philosophy, law and political science ab-
sorb more than 40% of university enrollments.  Most students do not attend
lectures regularly, since facilities are inadequate and the student:professor
ratio of 80:1 is excessively high. A serious problem is the high repeater
rate (33%) among first year students. Opportunities for advanced studies and
research in separate institutions are limited and links with other profession-
al institutions are lacking. Professors are elected by the teaching staff
on a permanent basis and control teaching and research in their disciplines.
Analysis and Evaluation
20. Several features of the education system are important:
(i)  low population growth rate of 0.7%;
(ii)  high enrollment ratios of 99%, 72% and 11% for the primary, second-
ary and higher education age-groups respectively;
(iii)  high completion rates of 85% for primary schools and about 75% in
secondary schools, with evening classes to absorb drop-outs;
(iv)  virtually automatic promotion within each level;
(v)  uneven transition rates, with 63% and 10% of primary school graduates
entering lower cycle gymnasia and technical schools respectively, and
only about 30% of gymnasia graduates being admitted to universities;
(vi)  virtually 100% of all teachers academically qualified, but no pro-
vision exists for systematic pedagogical training of secondary teachers
at universities;
(vii)  no significant differences in enrollment between males and females
except at university level (Chart 3);
(viii) literacy rate of '86% and
(ix)  outputs from primary and secondary general education exceeding the
available places in the succeeding levels.
21. Weaknesses in the system, which may be alleviated through the pending
reorganization of the administration, adversely affect quality and productivi-
ty. These include:
(i)  a centralized administration dominated by prescriptive and restrict-
ive laws pertaining to education and training;
(ii)  a rigid structure which does not provide sufficient study options,
requires students to decide between academic and vocational educa-
tion at an age when meaningful career choices are difficult and pre-
vents transfers thereafter;
(iii)  the perpetuation of an academic curriculum in secondary education
which emphasizes theoretical and classical studies at the expenses
of more practical technical and commercial studies;
(iv)  high student:teacher ratios, particularly at secondary and univer-
sity levels which stifle independent inquiry and group activity;
(v)  lack of adequate school buildings and teaching materials, particu-
larly at the primary level;
(vi)  negligible educational research; and
(vii)  the need for administrative, organizational and curricula changes
in the universities.



CENTRAL SERVICES OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
LMINISTER'S JLRSOFIE||COMPLAINTS 1|LEGA |L DLGAEO
TA NYS OICRETY ENDERAL    SCTARYS OFFICE
OFSTATEMOFISTATE
RELIGOUSAFAIRS           HIUNCGHE R ED UCA TION SR  Im Ml 1 | UNEIOCAL
~GENERAL DIRECTORATE1       GENERAL DIRECTORATE1        GENERAL DIRECTORATE           GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                     iOTHER DIRECTORATES
FO R RELIGIOUSCATINAL   ONAL COUHIGHER EDUCATIONIOFGGENERALHEDUCAVOCATIONALF ION
|DIRECTORATE OF   L       I GHER EDUCATION AND L      I DIRECTORATE OF L             AECIND FURHR TRASI-            SECTION FOR THE  I       IDIRECTORATE OF       L
CHURCH                  I OESCIENTI FIC              I PRIMARY EDUCATION            NING OF VOCATIONAL            SUEVSION OFI  PHYSICAL EDUCA-
I DIRECTORATE OFIEC    L  |  DIRECTORATE OF   L  I DIRECTORATE  OFESE- EN    DIECTORAL DIRECTORATE                                     D            OF
OREIGSTRUS AFAIFN          OF HIGE EDUCATION             F GENERARY EDUCATIO  rCAIONALWE DUVCATIONA r                SPCLUNT          I      IGEKHLDN              r
DIRECTORATE OF EC-
CLEISTIAL EDUDIRECTORATE                  OF             DREACHTRATEUN O SE            ODIE CTATEOOFKATEAFRU                                    THE ENICAT   OF ON O
CHURCH~~~~~~~~~ OTHOOL SCIEMA   NIGF 
I TION AND~~ ~ ~ ~ REIIU  STDE AN         I CONDR  EUATION               LOW||HGHE R-VOC ATIOA                                      GRE  CHILDRE
ADINSTRUCTIO                RESEARCHON                                              TEACH___IN__G __SCHOOBROA
DIRECTORAT   OFENONTDIRECTOR                         O FRECT DORATE OF                                                            IRECTORATF
ORESIATHO   EANDNONMIDDLEVCT- DIRECTORATE DATE O                                                                                                THF STIN O
TRATIVE AFFARELIRS           [TCHOLSAL ENDU                                                              r                                   | LOWER  CATIONAL
DIRECTORATE OF E  DIR                                                                                           :ISCOOT CNEA,DIECTRAE  F 
ISTRUCTIO                    REStr  EARC                                              EDUCATION
DIRECTORATE 0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RDIO  N  VIDRECTORATE OFIN
ORTHODOX AND                      TEACHER T                    D~~~~~~~~~~IGHRrCVOCATE                                 IVESTMEN FLANNENOF
FRHOORAS                     NAL EDUCATION 
L    FFICE 
DIRECTORATE O F                                           DIRECTORT
CAREER GUI[DAN-                                           OF STAF
CE AND AUDIO-                                             ADMINISRTO
VISUAL AIDS
Source: Ministry of Education.                                                                                                                       WoldBak-26
WOdd Bank-9267       I- M
;@ 



STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1972
i-                 PRIMARY                   _         o                 SECONDARY                                                     POST-SECONDARY                |
FIRST CYCLE                     DMEDICAL SCHOOL AND DENTISTRY
AGRICULTURAL, FORESTRY, VETERINARY STUDIES
APPRENTICESHIP SCHOOLS 
-|- E H   i } -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~OTHER UNIVERSITY FACULTIES AND HIGHER EDUCATION
PRE-PRIMARY AND PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING-
KINDER GARTEN                                                                      SECONDARY GENERAL                                                                                                    L
A
GRADE                                                                                                                                                                                                       B
YEAR                                                                                                                                         B 1  BUSINESS AND POLITICAL SCIENCES                           0
U
R
NAUTICAL SCHOOLS                                              M
A
R
K
E
VOCATIONAL AGRICULTURE             SUB-ENGINEERS SCHOOLS                                          T
ENTRANCE EXAMINATiON                                                                                     _
TO BE PHASED OUT                                                   LOWER TECHNICAL              MIDDLE TECHNICAL                 TECHNICAL INSTITUTE (KATE)
LABOUR MARKET
AGE  4        5       6        7       8       9       10       11          12      13       14          15       16      17               18      19       20      21       22      23
1       1       I        1       1       1       1        I                              _  _ I  I    I I                I       I                I       I        I            I
Sources: Ministries of Agriculture, Education, and Labour.
Note:   The 090-grade relationship applies only when students actor
the school at 5/.-6 and proceed through the system without repeating a class
-/ The primary course is to be exeended to a third year in 1973/74.                                                                                                                       r3S
VWorld Bank-9268         e:t



GREECE: EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL, 1969-70
GRADES
12                                                               5,956   ~      2025g \tZQ22,296  2,441                          1    1,333
BOYS                                               7          ''%                                                 GIRLS
;1                                                        8,085              26257                         25,58>                   1    1,543
10                                    17,96                                                                                                         3,77
16,089                                                                                     2400 2 0,00  x ,0   248  3
6                                                                                        8~~~~~~  .451 870                 x  '>7
72 16489                                                                                         2':~,  47--<    16143622                           1   11
Nlotes:   Figures in the center of the pyramid refer to enrollments in day classes.
Figures at the end of each line within the Pyramid refer to evening classes.
In the secondary grades, figures outside the pyrasmid show vocational and technical enrollments.                                                                                   World Bankc-9266
a' r
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~W M7



G O E I C E
PROJECTION OF HMAPOMFR REQUIPEMTS 1971-1987
(i) Actual and Projected Employment by Sectors of Economic
Activity, 1971-1987
1 9 7 1            1 9 i 7            Total change        Average annual rate of chenge
---------  1972-1987              % 1972-1987
In thousands    %    In thousands      %
1. Primarn  sector                     Il400      41.7        800        20.0    - 600                    - 3.60
2. Secondary sector                      840      25.o     1,310         32.7      470                      2.80
a. Mining                              20       0.6        26          0.6        6                      1.70
b. Industry-handicrafts               540      16.1        745        18.6      205                      2.00
c. ElctricA*-Gas                       25       0.7         45         1.1       20                      3.70
d. Constrction                        255       7.6       494         12.4      239                      4.20
3. Tertiary bector                     il!15      23x    169O            47. 3     L75                      3.35
a. Trade                              33       10.3       440         11.0       96                      i.55
b. Transpottation-Stdiraga-
Communicatiorii                    220       6.6       380          9.5      160                      3.50
c. Banks-Insurance-Rleal Bstate        78       2.3       150          3.8       72                      14.20
d. Servicee                           438      13.1       640         16.0      202                      2.40
e. Tourist thdUstty                    35       1.0       280          7.0      245                     13.90
TOTAL                            3,355     100.0     4,000        100.0      645                      1.10
Source: Perspective Development Plan of Greece.



G R E E C P' - PROJECTION OF 4A1P0WR NEQUTRMENTS
(ii) ARtjal and Projected Structure of kmploy-_rcL b  Occupational Groups, 1971-1987(in  thousands)
-------1972 ------------------              ------ --------- 1987 ---- _- __
_~~~~ _s-                                                                                   _                               _   __   __  ____I..
Major Occupatioaal Groups                    o                  5 |           D                                        7P  |crese p . a ..     
I    H  ~~~'a-  ~~a    m         '                0 'm   enm        a-.1     al197297
P.5   I       '_H M   ,                         51       I  '.-r P,  H                        -18
_ ________________ _ ___                         .     -                                                  "    '
I. Scientific, professional. and
technical personnel                          186       84      60       33       18      195        175      140      235      60     610              +7.7%
II. Directors and top executives                   22      12        5        5       2        24         35       20       10     10       75             +7.95%
Il. Clerical and related workers
(office employees)                        250      21       10        6     233       270         40       20      45    220       325               1.65%
IV. Merchanits and Sales workers                  232       6        5       10     229       250         20       10      50    250       330             +2.2%
V. Service workers                              228        3       20       67     165       255         15       60     300    125       500             +5.07.
VI. Farmers etc.                                 1400        1       2        2    1,345   1,350           2        9       28    761      800              -3.6%
VII. Craftsmen,labourers                           966        1       6      113     906    1,026           2       40      529    779   1,350              +2.1%
VIII. Other                                         71       9        2        4      45        60          1        1        3       5      10              -13%
Total                 3,355       137     110      240    2,943   3,430         290      300   1,200   2,210  4,000               +1.1%
Education attainment distribution:
University                                           47,                                          7.257.
Other post-secondary                                            3.2%                                         7.5
Secondary                                                               7%                                            307.                            .._
Other                                                                           85.8%                                       55. _5_.
Total                                                                                     100%                                         100%
Source: Perspective Development Plan of Greece.



G R E E C E
PROJECTION OF MANPOWEf  REQUIREMENTS 1971-1987
(iii) Projection of Training Needs for Selected Occupational Groups, 1972-1987
1972 Stock                                               Average Annual
1972       Attrition    Surviving        Stock Required      Total Training        Training Needs~
Occupational Groups          Stock       1972-1987    to 1987           in 1987            Needs 1972-1967      1972-1987
Technicians
(Post-secondary, Non-
University Education)    110,)000        35,000       75,000            300,000              225,00C               15,00C
Skilledl Cffice Workers
(Secondary General
Education)               83,00oo       28,000      55,000             395,000              340,000               22,700
Skilled Manual Workers
(Vocational Education)    146,000         44,000     102,000             76', 000             662,00Co             4,100
Source:  Perspective Development Plan of Greece; Staff Estimates



G R E E C E - ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
BY LEVELS AND TYPES OF EDUCATION, 1972-1987
1972-73                                                    1986-87                                          Additional, 1973-1987                  Avnnuale
Teacher/Student                                            I/ Teacher Student                                               Teacl-er
Enrollment     Teachers          Ratio               Enrollment                 Teachers _atio                     Enrollments             Teachers-2/      Need
Pre-primary                    99,000          3,150            1:31                320,000                   12,800              1:25           221,000                 9,220            660
Primary                       909,500         27,600            1:33              1,125,000                   45,000              1:25           215,500                26,800           1900
Secondary General
- general subjects            -           14,850              -                    -                       33,000               -                _                   23,200           1660
- technical subjects          -              -                -                    _                        5,000               -                -                    6,500            460
Total             488,000         14,850            1:34                 875,000                  38,000              1:23           387,000                29,700            1120
Secondary Technical
-general subjects             -            1,100              -                      _                      4,300               -                -                    3,570            250
-technical subjects           -            2,500              -                      -                     10,700               -                                     9,050            650
Total             112,000          3,600            1:32                 290,000                  15,000              1:19           178,000                12,620             900
Higher Education
University level             80,000          1,100            1:80                170,000                   12,500              1:14              -                   11,770            840
Non-university               11,000            800            1:13                 120,000                  12,000              1:10              -                   11,470            820
Total              91,000          1,900              -                  290,000                  24,500               -             119,000                23,240            1660
Grand Total         1,699,500         51,100              -                2,900,000                  135,300               -          1,120,500                101,580           6240
Source: Perpsective Development Plan of Greece.
I/ Mission estimates based on revised teacher:pupil ratios
2/ Including allowance for 3% attrition per annum



G R E E C E: PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
Public Expenditure and Education Expenditure 1964-1973 (in Drs. billion)
1964   1565   1966  1967   1968    1969    1.70   '1971    1972    1973
1. GDP                           136.5  154.1  169.0  182.6  196.6  220.7  247.3  277.1   318.6  414.3
2. Total public expen-
diture                         29.3  33,3   38.6   44.9   51.8   65.3    65.0    73.7    87.1  103.5
3, Public education
expenditure                     3.5    4.3    4.5    5.8     6.2     6.2     6.7     7.2     9.3    11.3
4. Public education expenditure
as a % of total public        12%    13%    12%   13%       12%      9.5%   10.3%   10%     10.7%   11%
expenditure
5. Private education
expenditure                     1.9    1.9    2.1   2.3   n.a.       3.0     3e1     3.3    n.a. I*.5
6. Public and private
education expenditure           5.4    6.2   6.6    8.1  n.a.        9.2     9.8   10.5    n.a.    15.8
7. Public and Private education
expenditure as a % of GDP       4%    4%    309%   4.4%   --         4.2%    4%     3.8%    -3 3.8%
Source: Ministry of Coordination and Planning.
I~ ~~~~~ V



. E  C E:  PUBLIc. EXPEND:TiITR1ES ON EDUCATI(:ON
lentr;i  Gmrerrrent recurrent expen-nCiiture bJ, type and level
ct education 1968-1973
Percentage
(In million drachmas)                                    distribution
Year _
TYTP4n C e(I                              1968       1969       1970      1971       1972       1973      1968    | 1973
or nducatlon
I'a4nistry of Education                 42077.5   42371         204.6   5321. 7   6218.8   72744.6         100,0   100.0
Central administration                     42.8      40.1        39.6       70.8     149.6      178.4       1.1     2.3
University and university level
institutions                           534.5      565.2       572.0     684.0      864.3   1,416.1      13.1    18,3
Non-university pedagogical institut.       12.3      13.1        25.4       17.0      56.8       41.9       0.3     0.5
Post-secondary technical education
(KATE)                                  15.5       15.5        17.4      29.5       84.2       67.3      0.4      0.9
General secondary education            1,153.0   1,279.3    1,198.0   1,436.8   1,703.6   2,119.9          28.3    27.4
Vocational seendary education
(middle-level)                          49.8       53.1       54.4       74,5      161.0     148.3       1.2      1.9
Vocational secondary education
(lower -level)                          60.1       60.5        61.8      69.4      152.3      123.7      1.5      1.6
Prirn9ry education                     2,040.8   2,164.7    2,036.4   2,713.1   2,800.0   3,329.0         50.0    43.0
Pre-primarxy education                    168.8     179.7       199.6     226.6      247.0      320.0       4.1     4.1
Other Ministties                          142.1     151.0       184.6     209.9      284.1      380.3
Agriculture                                47.1      44.9        48.7       41.3      43.6       32.0
Merchant Marine                            16.5      17.0        20.4       26.1      45.6       64.0
Tourism                                     9.0      10.3        10.7       13.7      21.2       34.5
Labour                                     58.4      67.3        92.8     116.0      160.0      187.6
Social Security                            11.1      11.5        12.1      12.8       13.7       62.2
Total                                  4,219.6   4,522.2    4,389.2   5,531.6   6,502.9   8,124.9
Source: Ministry of Education



ANNE( 5
G R E E C E: PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION          Table 3
Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditure by
Category 1971-1974
(In million drachmas)
1971      1972        1973        1974
Salaries and Services                4,1446      4,879      5,490       6,022
}Salaries                             4,275       4,643       5,192      5, 835
Social Security                          9          13          22          32
Travel expenses                         24          43          72         55
Non-personal services                  138         180         202         100
Materials and Supplies                  76         127         117         137
Furniture                                2           2           3           5
Equipment                               66         116          93        112
Miscellaneous maintenance
supplies                               1           4           5           8
Fuel, coal, etc.                         4           2           2           5
.rinting materials and supplies          1           1           2           3
Others                                   2           2          10           4
Transfers                            1,512       1,656       1,913      2,717
Subsidies to institutions            1, 505      1,655       1,906      2,714
Others                                   7           1           7           3
Expenditures from Earmarked             97         111         123         156
Accounts
Other Expenditures                       5          22          22           8
Total current expenditures           6,136       6,795       7,665      9,040
,',ource: Ministry of Education.



AIMEX 6
G R E E C E: PROJECTICN OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON
EDUCATION 1970-1987
(in constant 1970 prices)
Recurrent costs     Projected Public recurrent
per student        education expenditure
(in Dr.)                 in 1987
Level
1970       1987          Amount (Dr.million)         %
Nursery             2,820        7,200             2,300                 4.9
Primazy             2,820       9,300             10,5CO                22.5
Secondary general
lower level       3,350      12,900              7,100                15.2
upper level       3,350       14,300             4,800                10.3
Secondary technical
& vocational        6,800       24,100             7,000                15.0
Post-secondary
technical           9,000      56,400              6,200                13.3
University          7,500       45,800             8,700                18.8
Average/Total       3,286       16,000            46,600oc               100.0
Source: Perspective Development Plan of Greece



GREECE
ENROLLMElNT  OUTPUT, TEACHERS. TEACHER/PUPIL RATIOS AND USE FACTORS IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Level end           Lenh ofo        ,                      Annual           Teachers and       Teacher: Pupil    No. of Weekly              U.e F-ctore(%)
In tituti on             Location                 Type               Cour86.           Enrollment         Output           Instructors        Ritio               Periods         Classrooms        Workshop/Lab.
1   Accelerated            Chalkis                  Post-primary
Training Centers                                (1) accelerated    6 menths               90                 180                                                    43                   51            80
(5)                                          adult              (day)                                                     IS              12.7
(2) apprentice     i yeard               300                150                                                     15                  83            80
_                            _                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(evenAtna) _ __                            _          _
Tripolis                (1) accelerated
adult          6 anoths               90                180                                                    43                   49            80
11              11.8
(2) apprentice      2 yeard              120                 60                                                     15                  80            80
.e.ani                  (1) accelerated    6 sonths               120                20                                                     43                   65            80
is              12.2
(2) apprentice      2 yeari              300                150                                                     15                  83            80
Veria                    (t) accelerated    6 nonthi               90                iso                                                                         49            SO
aduit                                                                     11              11.8
(2) apprentice      2 years              120                 60                                                     t5                  so            80
KRtotini                (1) accelerated    6 aonths               90                 IS_                                                    43                   44            80
adult                                                                     10              11.0
(2) apprentice      2  -onths             60                 30          _i5                                                            6             so
Sub-total                                                                                1380               1410                63
II    igher Techinel        Chalkie                  Poet-aacondary      243 years            1440                 560               120              i2.0               36             _     7            12-88
Education Centars
3)             Kavala                   Post-secondery      243 yehrs             1400                320               1i7              12.0               36                   78i           i2-0
Ko.a.i                  Post-eacondary      2&3 yeare             1120                440                93              12.0               56                   76            12-78
Sub-total                                                                                3960               1520               330
III M u1tilateral            Athens, Salonika,        Secondary-lomer    3 years               4320                 360                  )                                                    86-           58-80
School. (10)            Firaeua                 - upper  -adeDi                          .950                270               180)             29.2               36
or technical    3 yeart               1300               3i8                100              18.5                                    79            50-80
6770               1050               280
Yeterrirl. Agrinion,   Secondary-lo,eer    3 yeasr               7000                560                  )                                                     85            65 -S
aallSa  vaioe            - upper acadami                         1470                420               300)             28.1               36
foanm,el, Canema,          or technical    3 years               227-                670                160             18.9                                    83            44-83
Ktal tata                                                   I1650                                 4
Sub-total                                                                              17510                2660               740 MO                                                               ___         -- 



I R e F C E  Ih, rd Edutntiu   P-eJ." 
Enrollmen1t in Accelerated Wreinieg Center-
OTrde                    MaintenAnce            t      i--6         Wcld-t plA-                                              E l.ti.-         Crpent- kns                         demLcith.     Timber             Ag.eh-i- Tltl
.   Center       -...-cnJe                Adlt  Apprt.i/    Adul   Apprett.   Adl t AApp t                       ppe Ad   A             t.  Ad'lt  A opr-d.  Adult  Apprent. Adult App-ent Adult   pen   Adult  pprent. Adult Appreut.    Adults                                n
ItAnluis                        ~~~      ~~15  tO        lu        -           15     u 15             .0         151      At      15          10                                                                                                  90               300            390
Teipolie                                                                                                  /1                 15  |C           15     60           15                 15                                                                       90               120            210
to en et                                    15        At             -          ~                 ul   1  8  o               15 _ L   cC    i5                     60 15   60             _1                            i5                                   120               300            420
V-ria                                      15       6c                                                   15                 dl       11      15                                                                        15               15                   90               120            210
Konuti.i                                  15                                                             11                 i,       II                          15                 15                                 15                                    90)               60            130
Tutelt                             I0       110              15       -           30    i PC      30      St        755      300      II         191      0         00                 -      05 -              t    !                               All               90038
~/Appre-t.- App-&e- i--



ANNEX 9
GREECE: Third Education Project
-igher Technical Education Centers (KATES)
Jisir2mntion of J+'ourses and Full-tixe rrollments
*  Length           Total enrolment             Annual
Course                         of     .  -   ._                _          Output
course    Chalkis  Kaval.n   Kozani
Mech.anical engineering               3120                 120        120           120)
Flectrical eneineerin-                3          120       120        120           120
Automotive enoineering                 3         120       120        120           120
Chemical engineering (general)        3                                              20
"     (petroleuvm)        3                                              20
" (metallury)             3                    240                       20
"  (ceramics)             3
Civil engineering (hydraulics)        3                    2400
'  (nonstruc^tion)        3          120                                1040
Nt         " (transportation)         3                             )40
(surveying)             3                    120        12C            80
"          " (quantitv surveying    3            1 20                                40
Electronic engineering                 3         120                                 4o
Tnstruwent technology (industria )  3                                                20
120
N (medical)               3
Peating & ventilating engineerin       2           80                  80            80
Textile technology                    3          120                                 40
Letathr technology                -  3                     120                       40
Optical mechanics                      2           80                                40
Accountancy                            2         160       1600       160           240
Secretarial                            2         160       160        160           2140
Sub Total                   11 440             11400      1120
Totals                                         3,960                    1,520



G_RE EC_E TIC
Man-Months              Y---iear 1              Year 2              Yer3Year 4                            Y --ear ~5
Project Item   Field  ______                                Es~~~~~~~Kpert  Fellowship              I.   23   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4            1   2   3   4    1.   2   3   4
Prolect Itm  Field~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               IIi  
Hligher Technical                                                                252                                                II   I                    6I   I174 
_Education CLenters
LYAT s)                      Automotive engi-eeting                               24                     3sl2    -                                                                      P.                
L                ~~~~Chemical, engineering                           2x24                      2.l2             1   1          -.1-,-t-             9-s-l-                 n w
Petroleum engineering                                24                       12             I        I 1- --                               ~~- 
Metallurgy                                          124                       12             1   I   1 
Hydraulic engineering                                12                       12                  I 1                    I                                                     I
Electronic engineering                               24                       12             1   I   I          L..L......  --.-1--L-                         me a            I
Instrument technology & automation                   12                       12             1   1   1          1   I   1 
Me9dical instrument technology                       12                        6             1   1   I          I   1   I          I                             -    -   
Optical technology                                   12                        6             i           I      I   I              I   I                               m
Textile technology                                   24                       12             I                   ...J...L..                           ..ium                
Leather technology                                   12                       12             1         
Librarianship                                        12                        6             I        b        -     I-I                                - . 
Multilateral                                                             (14)   144                 (40)  120                  I I           I I gi i II I II
Secondary Schools                                                                                                              II                               I I II                                     I
Administratimn                                       12                   )40.3                       I         I II                        II
Guidance                                             12)                                                                 I         I I II
Industrial Arts                                      18                                           I                                                                       
Commercial Studies                                   15                                                                                               I I I  I(I    I       I      I
Iu-service Teacher Training                         8x6                                                                            I                 II    (I 
pre-jinvestment                                                                                                                                                 I        (I ( II                           I
Study of Center of                                                        ()      2                        2                                                                                                
Pedagogical Studies .                                                                                                                                                                                  
Study co-ordinator                                   12                                                                  I                  II                 I         I   I I
Curriculum &ethodology                                3                                           II ( I                           I I I              II                      I I
Media                                                 3                                      I    II                     II            *                                  
Research &evaInation                                  3                                      I        6 I           I   I          I   I   I               I   1         I      I
Educational economist                                 3                                                             I I            I I II I I                            I        I
Coneultant architects                                                                        I                                                                                 
Fellowships for staff                                                        120                                                                   mwh=I  =..d   -=m          I 
Education System                                                                 150I                                                        I I II II I                                              II
Development Study                                                                                                             I                                 I II I I                              I    I I
Education planner                                    12                                      II                                             I                                   I
Manpower                                             12                                                                  I                  II I II
Research management                                  12                                                                  II I                         I I I( I
Architect                                            12                                                                                 I I           I I I              I    I I
Financial anslyst                                    12                                                        4-1   1             1        I 1            I   I1        I        I 
Social Sceinces                                       9                                                                                               I II I             I IIII
Natural Sciences                                      9                                                                   I                    It I   I             II           II
Various other specialists fur 3-12 mos.each          72                                      I        1                  I              I   1         1   I 1                 I 1 
Education M4aterials                                                                                                                                 II I II                                9I I I
Production Unit                                                           (3)    36I I                                                      I I II                       III
School equipment                                     126-4    I                                                               I      I   I       I         I   I         I    I   I
Pruduction engineer                                  12II                                                                          I I III I I
Econmist                                             12II                                                                          I I I              I        II I I
Proiect                                                                           60I I I                                                       I                   I                  I II I
Programeing                                          12III                                                                                                II I I
Procurement                                          12I                                             II                                     II II I I
Various other specialistsI I I                                                                                 I I II I                               I I II I
as   required                                 36                                      I       I  I           I              I    I   9              I 1 I         I    I   1
imma = Fellowships
- Specialists



ANNEX 10
TablDe 2
G R E E C E  III
Sommary Of Technical Assistance
Number        Total        Estimated Cost
Estimated    Nan-years       (n   $ 00)
A. Higher Technical Education Centers   E                 -
Specialists                       1J4            21              840
Fellowships                        16            14 1/2          165.3
B. Multilateral Secondary Schools
Specialists                        14            12              480
Fellowships                        40            10              114
P pre-investment Study of Center of
Pedagogical Studies
Specialists                         5             2              100
Consultant architects              n,a,          n.a.            100
Fellowships                         -            10              100
1). Post-Secondary Education System
Development Study
Specialists                        10            12.5            500
E. Feasibility Study of Eduacation
Materials Production Unit
Specialists                         3             3             120
F. Central Project Unit                        4            5              200
Total Cost                     2,719.3
For Loan disbursement:
Estimated foreign expenditure (80%)          2,175.4
+ Estimated price increae contingencies (19%)    413.3
Loan Allocation      2,588.7
(say 2.6 million)



ANThEX 11
GREECE III
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS!/AND AREA PER STUDENT
Type of Facilities             Area/
Student      Building       Furniture    Equipment      Total
--m ---      -----------------------us$--------------------
Accelerated training centers:
Academic & Communal           15.0          2,837            210          1,337       4,84
Boarding                       7.2          1,720            160           --         1,880
High technical education
centers:
Academic & Communal           11.8          2,900            250          1,815        4,965
Boarding                       8.1          1,990            180           --         2,170
Staff housing                150.0         36,830             --           --        36,830
Multilateral secondary
schools:
Academic & Communal            7.7          1,700            150            389       2,239
"1-- " means not applicable
I Professional fees and contingencies not included.



ANTEX 12
GREECE III
PROJECT COSTS BY TYF5 OF EXPENDITURE
Drachma  (million)                US$  (million)           ?' of
Mocal      Toreoign      Total     rocal  Foreign   Total    Total
:, Construction
Academic & Communal
Facilities            855.60      366,70    1s22-,30     28.52   12.22    40,74      54.1
Boarding                 62.98       27.00       89.98       2e10    0.90     3.00      4.0
Staff Housing             8.19        3,51       11,70      0.28    0.11      0.39     05
Site Development        100.80       43.21      14.01        3.36    1.44     4.80      6.4
Cons. Arch. Services    113e35  0-00            113.35      3.78    0.00      3.78      5.0
Sub-Total            1,140.92      440.42    l,581,34      38,04   14.67    52,71     70,0
2_ Furnitue                 68.42       63e41      131e83      2e28    2.12      4.40      5.8
(including Design
services)
3, Equipment                46e39      417.44      463.83      155   13,91    15,46       20G5
Su-otal                 114-01       WB=W       5?;         3ed3   lb-0       36. F    ;S3
4., Studies                  6.72       2oe88       27.60      0.22    0,70      0.92      1,3
5,, Technical Assistance    10.79       43.19       53.98       0,36    1.44     1,80       2,4
(including Project
Eiplementation)
TOTAL PROJE3CT COST    1,273.24     985.34    2,258.58     42.45   32.84    75.29   lO000
(excluding
contingencies)
6. contingencies           535.33      375.29      910.62      17.84   125K1    30.35     40o3
TOTAL PROJECT COST    1,&08.57   1,360.63    3x169.20      60.29   45.35   105.64
(Includr                                                                      -
contingencies)



APPIRAISAL OF A 'ILAD LDUCAIIAN 1'RIJECT - MECE1
Cnn5ioa;enc0 Allocancas
ConInsu                                                      enTc.l Assistane                             =- oal
Civil Works                   Fnir            u re  f32jpncns  Ar chitect                                                                                                                                            -ts Svcs  ... IS,idins  Sclalicts  Fellovship s Foal rrcj1cs Fs  Contlogsnoias
Local        Forelgn         Local       Foreign l.ocal           F.,,ign         L-cal       Foreign lw eal             F,re.gn      Local    Fnreign    Local    FoRuign a        lcal   ForeLan         roZal      OS  At Tota1
Contisg sciee (as b af
praject .n.t)
U0.f- e.n..                              10             10             10          10            7           7              10                          5             5          5         5           5          5
Price . .cal.tito  1/                    31             31            32           32          04           24             17            -             19           19          19        19           9         19
T.t.1  2/                                      44            44             45           _           33           33              29           __           25            25          25        25         25          25
Pr-ject Rest (.ithout
artii,S.eo.ins)  3/
Milliass  D-h-clsns                   1,027.57         440.42         68.42        63.41       46.39       417.44          113.35        --             6.72        20.88        9.12     36.48        1.67       6.71    1,273.24    985.34  2,258.58            40.37
MilliRac  US$                            34.26          14.67           2.28        2.1.'        1.55       13.91            3.78        __             0.22         0.70        0.30       1.20       0.06       0.22        42.45     32.84      15.29
48.93                        4.40                     15.46                                                  0.92                    1.52                   0.28
X Foreigs  enchauge                                     30                         50                       90                           --                         76                    80                     so                     43.6
Caotinsoosine (saoant.)
Millios ..a.oh-s                        102.76          44.04          6.84         6.34         3.25       29.22           11.34        --             0.34          1.04       0.46      1.82        0.08       0.34       125.07     82.80    207.87
Millias  US$                              3.42           1.47           0.23        0.21        0.11         0.98            0.37        --             0.02         0.03        0.02      0.06        0.00       0.01         4.17      2.76       6.93
Price eacaletion
Milli-o-  Dra-h-ae                      350.40         150.18         23.26        22.32        11.91      107.20           21.20        --             1.34         4.17        1.82      7.28        0.33       1.34      410.26   292.49       702.75
Millia..s US$                            11.68           5.01           0.77        0.74         0.39        3.57            0.72        _              0.04         0.14        0.06      0.24        0.01       0.05        13.67      9.75       23.42
S.b-To.lt
Milli as Dra-h-ao                       453.16         194.22          30.10       28.66        15.16      136.42           32.54        __             1.68          5.21       2.28       9.10       0.41        1.68      535.33   375,29      910.62
Milli.o.  US$                            15.10           6.48           1.00        0.95        0.50         4.55            1.09        _              0.06         0Ri7        0.08      0.30        0.01       0.06        17.84     12.51      30.35
X Foreign e.h.cog                                             30                         50                       90                                                      76                    80                     80                     41.2
Total project .o.t (with
canti,sgesscies) 
Millinos D-rah-sce                   1,480.73         634.64         98.52        92.07       61.55       553.86          145.89        __             8.40        26.09       11.40    45.58         2.08       8.39    1,808.57 1,360.63  3,169.20             28.7/1
Milli.n.  US$                           49.36          21.15           3.28        3.07         2.05       18.46            4.87        --             0.28         0.87        0.38       1.52       0.07       0.20        60.29    45.35      105.64
. Foreig. exchange                                            30                         50                       90                           __                         76                    80                     S0                     42.9
Rote of exchane : 30 Oro-ch-e = US$ 1.00
1/ Friso  E..Ilatieo  Entiates:                                                                               2/ Total perce-t-ge ef physicel ssd p .c. e.a..lotion
Weighted dietribotion  fo expenditrer.                                                                     3/ Ulit price adjottd ra reflect pricee of  J..nary  1975
aver the implentotion per-id                         1975         1976         1977       Total
2.5 yeor- conotractios                                147.         101.          87        31%
2 yF00-  for praorepent and aq,mp.ent                 12%          107.          -         24%
2.5 yeor- for ..anufscteing and
pr..crn..e.t of forniture                             14%          11%          107.       32%
1.25 Ye.r, of p-afe-ni.o.l Otrol-ns
(lern- deiga  La ca. traci avarding)                 14%           807.                    17-.
Corpo..ded



ANNEX la
GREECE III - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE 2/
Year                    1                2                3                4                5
Quarters          1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20
1.  Central Project
Unit for Imple-   R - - - - - - -- - - - -
| mentation of    RR
Education pro-
jects
2.  Technical Serv-
ices -Units of RR-
Participating
Agencies
3.  Sites             000 00+ +14 +++
4.  Consultant
Architects      RRS .       ...  A   | .    ... ... ... ... ... ... .    ... ...   |   --   |   i
A
5.  Civil Works         V VVA XXX XXA AXX XNA TTB SCC CC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC NNN NNN NNN NNN
6.  Furniture                  PP PPP|APP PPP ATT TBA SMM MMM MMM MMM MMM|OMMM|IIII III III NTNN NNN NNN NNN 
7.  Equipment                   P PPP AAp PPP|PAA TTT BBA SMM MMM MMM MMM ITT III III ITT NNN NNN NNN NNN
8.  Technical As-
9.  Studies             RRRRRI
Legend:
0  Site Selection                                            C  Construction Execution
+  Survey of Sites                                           A  Review and Approvals
V  Preliminary Studies for Civil Works                       * Professional Services
X  Complete Design Development, Outline Specifications,   P  Designs, Master Lists and Costing
Cost Analysis                                             P  FinalDesigns and Bid Documents
X  Final Designs for Civil Works and Bid Documents    -          Manufacturing and Procurement
T  Invitation and Tendering of Bids                          I  Delivery and Installation
R  Recruitment                                               N  Guarantee and Liability Period
B  Bid Evaluation and Awarding of Contracts
S  Signing of Contracts                                     -   Duration of Services
1/ Time is calculated from date of Loan Agreement
2/ Based on conventional construction systems; savings in time due to the use of prefabrication not
taken into consideration.



ANNEX 15
GREECE III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Semester                         Disbursements           Disbursements       Balance
First Year:                                                                     45.00
1                                  0.09                   0.09               44.91
2                                  0.51                   0.60               44.40
Second Year:
3                                  0.75                   1.35               43.65
4                                  0.35                   1.70               43.30
Third Year:
5                                  2.34                   4.04               40.96
6                                  3.56                   7.60               37.40
Fourth Year:
7                                  6.60                  14.20               30.80
8                                 15.23                  29.43               15.57
Fifth Year:
9                                 11.34                  40.77                4.23
10                                  2.97                  43.74                 1.26
Sixth Year:
11                                  1.26                  45.00                0.00
12
1/ Beginning from date of Loan Agreement.






\~~~~~~~~~~. ........dm                               B U L G A R I A                                                                                  z 
)     YUGOSLAVIA
-           Snd E.PSi.S.               >r1  PtDEA  C  E
A  L B A  N  I A                                                                              I                     AtA*0 O  L
ff"s'5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                                                                        A               "/ U     K  Y
.Q 0  O     NAN '           Ad .OOSA .r
/SiA/VD5                                                                                               Ae  <s,  .-s              So                                    256AN    
/51 A NO 5,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 
VA-
GREECE        ~ETI   L    2EC 
__                                                                01, 4
THR   ADUA TILON           PROJECT07                                                                             AEEA                                                         0   AS -0   A S
PDPULATION DENSITY., .
U.de 40             -  MULTILATERALSECONVARYSCHOOLS'                                                                                                     ,. 
_   -  HIGHER tECHNICAL EDUCATION CENTERAS (KATE)             .                                                                 V -.
so -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                                                                                     a r>No0  --
55 - 59                                                                                                                                                     by~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



