Document of
FILE, COPY                      The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1848-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE
SIDI CHEHO-AL MASSIRA HYDRO PROJECT
June 11, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SIDI CHEHO-AL MASSIRA HYDRO PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit:  Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH 4.38
US$ .23 = DH 1.00
ABBREVIATIONS
ONE                 National Electricity Office
Hydraulique         Hydraulic Directorate of the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications
OCP                 Office Cherifien des Phosphates
CNA                 National Coal Company
SAMIR               Socifte Anonyme Marocaine-Italienne
de Raffinage
SCP                 Socifte Cherifienne de Petroles
MTPC                Ministry of Public Works and Communications
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMlMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO TIIE
KINGDOM OF MIOROCCO FOR THE SIDI CHEHO-AL MASSIRA HYDRO PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$49.0 million, to help fi-
nance the Sidi Cheho-Al Massira Hydro project in Morocco. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.85
percent per annum.
PART I - TIIE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Morocco"
(1021-MOR, dated January 26, 1976) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 13, 1976. An updating economic mission was in the field in the
first haLf of June.
3.        During the 1968-72 Plan, Morocco succeeded in accelerating the
growth of its economy and in improving the situation of its external payments.
Aided substantially by good crops following favorable weather in three years
out of five, real GDP growth averaged 5.6 percent per annum during the five-
year period. Reflecting the sustained rise in exports during the Plan period
and a slower growth of imports in 1971 and 1972, the balance of payments
showed a surplus from 1969 onward. These results represented a definite im-
provement over those of the preceding decade, during which the rate of real
GDP growth had barely exceeded that of population growth, and the balance of
payments had been a source of constant concern. These achievements were ac-
companied by an increase in private consumption averaging about 2 percent
per capita in real terms during the five-year period.
4.        From 1967 to 1970, the main growth determinants had been exports,
tourism and investment, all of which rose substantially; in addition sizeable
stocks were accumulated following the exceptionally good harvest in 1968. By
contrast, in 1971-72, exports and tourism together with current government
spending were the major factors to sustain economic prowth. During these
last two years of the Plan, the investment of puhlic and semi-public enter-
prises declined, largely because the state-owned phosphate company (OCP) had
completed its expansion program. Government investment stagnated after 1968.
Private investors adopted a wait-and-see attituide in the face of political
developments in 1971 and 1972 and in the expectation of new measures to en-
courage investment and exports. At the end of the 1968-72 Plan period,
there was therefore an urgent need to revive public and private investment.
Particularly in the public sector, absorptive capacity needed to be in-
creased by appropriate changes in staffing and organization.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Following a long period of very slow growth in private consumption,
social problems had to be tackled. Over the 1960-71 period, there had been
a slow but perceptible decline in real per capita consumption for about one-
third of the rural population. Wealth and income differences between cities
and villages, among regions, and between rich and poor tended to widen. Un-
employment remained high, in 1971 averaging 9 percent of the country's labor
force, and ranging between 12 and 16 percent in large urban centers.
6.        Recognizing these difficulties and problems, the Government began
in 1971 to revise its development policies, paying increasing attention to
social objectives. The changed orientations were reflected in the 1973-77
Plan which aims at (1) GDP growth of 7.5 percent per annum in real terms
from 1973 to 1977, mainly through a sharp increase in public and private
investment and a strategy geared strongly toward increasing exports; and
(2) an improvement in the distribution of growth benefits among the different
social groups and the various regions, in order to achieve greater equity and
at the same time increase domestic demand. This improvement was to be brought
about through further land distribution to poor farmers, more emphasis on the
development of rainfed agriculture, "Moroccanization" of some industrial and
commercial enterprises, a price and wage policy designed to enable the poorest
segments of the population to satisfy their essential needs, an ambitious pro-
gram of low-cost housing, various measures to improve the lot of the rural
poor, and increased emphasis on the development of poorest regions.
7.        During the first two years of the 1973-77 Plan, the main development
policies proposed in the Plan were introduced. Further, in 1974, Morocco ben-
efitted from a steep rise in the price of phosphate, its main export product,
which provided substantial additional resources compared to the Plan's expec-
tation. The Government decided to step up investment spending for the years
1975-77, partly to reflect cost increases for the development program already
adopted and partly to embark on additional investment projects.
Recent Economic Performance
8.         In 1973, exports were the only dynamic element in the economy, and
real GDP grew less than 3 percent. Agricultural output declined by 11 percent
due to drought. Investment rose 3 percent in real terms, because of an insuf-
ficient number of fully prepared projects and of the late publication of the
1973-77 Plan and new investment incentives.
9.        In 1974, by contrast, the economy registered a strong recovery.
GDP grew by 10 percent, supported by all growth determinants. Agricultural
output rose by 14 percent, thanks to good weather conditions and expansion
of irrigation. Fixed investment increased by 34 percent in real terms due
to public sector investment and the implementation of new incentives for
semi-public and private investors, and stocks were replenished. Exports
(including non-factor services) grew by 14 percent. Government consumption
rose by more than 20 percent at constant prices.



- 3 -
10.       The revival of economic activity in 1974 was accompanied by further
improvements in the balance of payments. There was a sharp increase in phos-
phate export earnings from $192 million in 1973 to $932 million in 1974, due
to a 345 percent rise in average export price and a 16 percent growth in
quantities exported. This and a further large (52 percent) increase in
workers' remittances from Europe were the main factors behind a doubling of
the current surplus to $237 million in 1974, in spite of increased import
payments for foodstuffs and petroleum. The current surplus enabled Morocco
to increase short-term financing of its exports to facilitate sales, and to
raise the level of its external reserves. These reached $454 million at the
end of 1974.
II.       Some weak spots should be noted, however.    The burden of price sub-
sidies for imported foodstuffs and petroleum rose to 5.4 percent of GDP in
1974. The volume of agricultural exports declined while import requirements
for wheat, sugar, edible oils and dairy products reached a high level. Short-
ages of skilled manpower were increasingly felt, particularly at mid-level of
technical and managerial qualifications. The level of reserves was rather low
in relation to imports (2.4 months at the end of 1974).
12.       Available indicators show that the economic and financial situation
was less favorable in 1975 than it was in 1974. Two factors in particular
held back economic growth. There was a decline in phosphate exports and down-
ward pressure on phosphate prices, and weather conditions were less favorable
in 1974/75 than in 1973/74, which caused a decline estimated at 10 percent in
agricultural output. However, the growth of fixed investment and the Govern-
ment's current expenditures continued at the rapid pace that began in 1974.
On balance, real GDP growth was only an estimated 2 percent in 1975. At the
same time, the internal and external financial situation has tightened compared
to 1974. The Government's budget showed a substantially increased overall
deficit, due to sharply rising current and capital spending. Despite smaller
import price rises and a substantial increase in external borrowing, the
balance of payments registered for the full year a small surplus only.
Reserves were about 2 months of 1975 imports by the end of 1975. The diffi-
culties experienced in 1975 should be temporary, however. A recovery of
output and exports is expected in 1976 for the agriculture and phosphate
sectors, which should provide the real resources for a further increase in
investment. This and greater fiscal discipline likely to be introduced with
the 1976 budget law would enable the country to ease the financial situation
by comparison with 1975.
Revisions to the 1973-77 Plan
13.       The Government revised upward the 1973-77 Plan allocations for the
years 1975-77. Government investment appropriations for the five-year period
were raised to DH 25.6 billion (about $6.4 billion) compared to the original
DH 11.8 billion. Of the DH 13.8 billion increase, changes to original projects
and cost increases represent DH 4.6 billion and new projects for 1975-77, DII
9.2 billion. Excluding defense, new projects fall in the following main
categories:



DIH 2,500 million for regional development;
DH 1,600 million for transport and communications;
DH 1,300 million for agriculture and water development;
DH 400 million for industry;
-    DIH 150 million (to be raised to more than DH 300 million depend-
ing on implementation capacity) for low-cost housing; and
-    DH 200 million for social services.
Since planning is indicative only for the semi-public and private sector, the
above allocations do not include investments by this sector. Nevertheless,
the Plan revisions contain provisions to prepare for the implementation of
two large industrial complexes (chemicals and steel) in the semi-public
sector, and expect a vigorous investment growth in the private sector. The
State Secretariat for Planning estimates that total investment at current
prices could jump from DH 4.2 billion in 1974 to DH 12.0 billion in 1977.
This would enable the country to meet the original GDP growth target of 7.5
percent a year for the 1973-77 period.
14.       The thrust of the Plan revisions seem justified.     Indeed, the
achievement of initial (especially social) Plan objectives is eminently desir-
able. Similarly, Morocco's economy has developed to a stage where heavy in-
dustry should begin to find a place. The country possesses an obvious com-
parative advantage in the processing of phosphates, which would tend to
stabilize export earnings. However, the Plan revisions raise several issues
of importance for Morocco's long-term development strategy and prospects.
15.       The steep investment growth foreseen by the plan revisions could
exceed the country's absorptive capacity. Following the revival noted in
1974 and 1975, investment in real terms would rise by 39 percent in 1976
and 19 percent in 1977, and continue at very high rates in following years
according to the tentative plans for heavy industry. The skilled manpower
constraint can only be relieved gradually by training, although for large
industrial and infrastructure projects, Morocco may be able to use foreign
services more extensively than in the past, but at considerable cost. In
addition, the Government will have to ensure that the increase in capital
intensity implied by the moves into heavy industry would be compatible with
the objectives for increasing opportunities for unskilled employment.
16.       Financial resources may also restrain investment growth.     The
analysis of Morocco's financial prospects shows that such resources would
grow relatively slowly in the next five years. Export earnings are likely
to be restrained by a decline in phosphate prices, and as a result, the
phosphate company's savings which are a large share (36 percent in 1974) of
national savings would be restrained. Taking into account the objective and



policies to improve consumption levels of low-income groups, the growth rate
of national savings may be expected to be relatively low. In spite of plannec
efforts to increase budgetary savings and food import substitution, foreign
exchange and national savings are likely to become a constraint on investment
towards the end of the decade.
17.       For the 1973-77 Plan period, it is likely that investment growth
will reach close to 13.5 percent p.a. on average. It would thus exceed
the original plan targets for 1973-77, but remain below the revised targets.
Provided the volume of phosphate exports recovers in 1976, real CDP gains
would average about 6.5 percent yearly during the five years. Private per
capita consumption would rise by about 3.5 percent a year, which should
correspond to a net improvement in the situation of low-income groups.
Although relative heavy external borrowings will be needed in 1976 and 1977
under this scenario, the balance of payments would remain strong until 1977.
These results would be satisfactory by comparison with the initial objectives
of the 1973-77 Plan for output and consumption growth, and for the balance of
payments.
18.       For the 1978-80 period, however, projected trends call for caution.
Taking into account the absorptive capacity and resource availability con-
straints, investment growth would have to slow down, which, together with
assumed export increases, would lead to growth of real GDP of not more than 7
percent a year, and of private per capita consumption of about 2.5 percent.
Import requirements for consumption and especially investment would continue
to rise, and with the likely deterioration in terms of trade (paragraph 16),
the economy's resource gap would widen substantially during the last three
years of the decade. To cover it and service accumulated debt, external
borrowing requirements on a commitment basis are tentatively projected to
average more than $700 million annually in 1978-80, compared to an actual
$553 million in 1974 and an estimated annual average of $540 million in
1975-77. Miorocco's borrowing capacity seems sufficient to mobilize these
amounts from available sources, provided the necessary effort in project
preparation for external financing is made. The bulk of borrowings up to
1980 would be from official, bilateral and international sources.
19.       External debt and debt service would increase as a result of pro-
jected borrowings. Debt outstanding and disbursed would rise from $1.0 bil-
lion at the end of 1974 to $2.6 billion at the end of 1980. Debt service
would go from $121 million in 1974 to some $464 million in 1980. Debt servicE
would remain manageable, rising to 11 percent of exports (including nan-factor
services) in 1980, from 6 percent in 1974. The prolongation beyond 1980 of
macro-economic trends foreseen during 1976-80 indicates that external borrow-
ing requirements would remain large, due in particular to the rise in import
needs for investment. These would lead to substantial debt service obliga-
tions, since an increasing share of external borrowing would come from com-
mercial sources. However, with an additional and feasible export effort
and provided recourse to commercial sources is kept within reasonable limits,
debt service would remain a manageable burden on the balance of payments.
Morocco is therefore creditworthy for substantial additional borrowing on
Bank terms.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
20.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 27 projects with
financing totalling $620.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $405.5
mitlion has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling
$50.0 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window
loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in March
1976. IFC investments have amounted to $4.4 million. Annex II contains a
sumnmary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of May 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases,
delays have been caused by management or procurement difficulties, and in 1974
cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in investment activity in Morocco
and the acceleration of inflation. However, performance in project execution
has considerably improved during the last two years.
21.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the industrial and
agricultural sectors, which together have accounted for 63 percent of total
net commitments; the balance is accounted for by utilities (12 percent),
tourism (11 percent), roads (7 percent) and education (7 percent). Apart fron
the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted
to 5.5 percent of total fixed investment in 1970-74), the main objectives
of Lending were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide
technical assistance, particularly for project preparation, and increase pro-
ductive capacity, particularly in order to improve the balance of payments.
22.       While these objectives remain, emphasis is also being given to
supporting the new orientation of the Government's development effort in the
field of income distribution. An increasing share of Bank Group lending will
be devoted to projects developing directly or indirectly the productive
capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups.
23.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, the improvement of the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. While continued lending for irrigation is envisagE
greater emphasis will be given to supporting the improvement of rainfed farm-
ing, and lending will in general be focussed on support to small farmers. A
second irrigation project in the Doukkala region and an irrigation project wit
related water supply and power benefits in the Haouz region are envisaged.
Projects for livestock/rural development in the rainfed zone in northern
Morocco, for credit to small farmers and for developing production of fruits
and vegetables on small holdings are also being prepared.
24.       Continued lending for industry and tourism through two DFC's (BanquE
Nationale pour le Developpement Economique and Credit Immobilier et Hotelier)
will be proposed. A project for the construction of a large cement plant in
the less developed northeast part of the country is envisaged. Other proposal
are being discussed, including one for a steel mill in northeast Morocco,
Projects in industry and tourism have as key objectives increased foreign
exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies.



- 7 -
25.       A sites and services project in Casablanca is being prepared.      It
should contribute to solving the problem of rapid growth of slum areas. A
substantial social services component is envisaged. The Bank is executing
agency for project preparation being financed by UNDP; UNDP is also providing
technical assistance for overall planning of the sector. A second Water Sup-
ply project is being prepared to meet the needs of several urban and rural
sectors.
26.       Education is a critical bottleneck in Morocco's development.     Two
IDA credits have been made to develop secondary education and teacher training
and to improve technical and vocational training. A third project, with empha
sis on improving facilities in rural areas, was recently approved by the Execu
tive Directors. A fourth project with emphasis on technical and vocational
training is envisaged.
27.       A consultative group for Morocco was formed in April 1967 under the
chairmanship of the Bank. It includes Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy
Japan, Kuwait, Spain, the U.K., the U.S., UNDP, OECD/DAC, the African Develop-
ment Bank and the European Investment Bank. The last meeting of the Group,
on March 28 and 29, 1974, expressed satisfaction with the improvement in
Morocco's economic performance in recent years, and the emphasis in the Third
Five-Year Plan (1973-77) on improving the distribution of growth benefits.
The gross inflow of official loans and grants to Morocco rose from $129 mil-
lion in 1966 to $159 million (of which $18 million in grants) in 1971, but
temporarily fell to $128 million in 1972 and $121 million in 1973; in 1974
the gross inflow rose again to $190 million. The major sources of aid were
France, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group.
28.       At the end of 1975, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's external
public debt was estimated at 17 percent on a disbursement basis. The share
of the Bank Group in debt service was 12 percent in 1974 and an estimated
14 percent in 1975. By 1980 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to rise to about 24 percent and 15 percent
respectively, on the basis of the assumptions made for total external borrow-
ings for the 1976-80 period (paragraphs 17 and 18).
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Primary Energy Resources and Development
29.       The main indigenous energy resources in Morocco are coal and hydro-
power. Known oil deposits are nearly exhausted but exploration efforts
have been intensified. Large deposits of bituminous schists are a possible
source of oil in the long-term but their development will be expensive.
A UNDP-financed uranium exploration program is under way.



- 8 -
30.       Energy demand has grown at 7 percent per year on average over the
last 14 years with an upward trend in the growth rate, total consumption
rising from 1,975 million tons coal equivalent (mtce) in 1961 to 4,707 mtce
in 1974. Energy use has intensified over the period and energy consumption
per capita has risen from 164 kgce in 1961 to 282 kgce in 1974; however, this
still leaves Morocco near the lower end of the world range (10-12,000 kgce).
Morocco is highly dependent on imported oil, the share of which in total
energy consumption rose from 60% in 1961 to nearly 80% in 1974. Oil is mainly
imported as crude, for refining in two refineries with a combined capacity of
3 million tons per year.
31.       Moroccan forecasts of energy demand imply growth rates in the range
9-13% per year. They also foresee increasing dependence on imported oil,
demand for which is expected to rise 3-4 times over the next 10 years, from 3
million tons in 1974 to 10-13 million tons in 1985.    The cost of oil imports
by 1985 is projected at 2-6 times the 1974 figure of US$260 million, depending
on the demand and oil price assumptions adopted.
32.       All energy prices are subject to Government control.     Except for
petrol, the prices of petroleum products in Morocco remained unchanged from
1962 until the end of 1975. Through a compensation account, the Government
has subsidized the prices of fuel oil, gas oil and kerosene, which are typi-
cally used for industrial and for low income domestic purposes, and levied
special taxes on petrol. Until the sharp increase in petroleum prices in
1973, the cost of subsidies was more than offset by revenue from the special
taxes; net income to the compensation account amounted to about $30 million
in 1973. Following the 1973 price increases, the compensation account moved
sharply into deficit, amounting to $150 million in 1974 and $115 million in
1975. At the end of 1975, the prices of petroleum products were sharply in-
creased, by between 12.5% (petrol) and 39.1% (fuel oil). As a result, net
payments from the compensation account are estimated to decline to about $23
million in 1976. The Government has informed the IMF of its intention to
make supplementary adjustments to further reduce the net budgetary burden of
petroleum product subsidies in the course of 1976. In addition, it has in-
formed the Bank of its intention to progressively eliminate subsidies to
petroleum products used by ONE during the next two to three years.
33.       Coal prices were held down in the late 1960's, despite rising costs,
and as a result the National Coal Company (CNA) made increasing losses. How-
ever, since then the Government has authorized three price increases total-
ling 104% above the 1971 level of DH 61/ton. Electricity prices are dis-
cussed in paragraphs 55-58.
34.       Planned sector investment for 1973-77 is about DH 2,300 million
at 1974-75 prices, more than double the 1968-72 figure of some DH 1,000
million. Some 71% of this program is for power system expansion, but it is
also planned to increase petroleum-refining capacity by 3.5 million tons and
to develop a new coal mine to increase coal production from its present level
of 700,000 tons per year to 1 million tons by 1981. In addition, DH 570
million would be spent on intensified exploration for oil and gas.



- 9 -
35.       The State owns all the capital of the main oil refining company
(Societe Anonyme Marocaine Italienne de Raffinage - SAMIR) and has a 50%
holding in the other (Societe Cherifienne de Petroles - SCP). A new state
agency, with a 50% holding in the main foreign distributors in petroleum
products, has been set up. The State also owns 98% of the shares in CNA,
and fully owns the National Electricity Office (ONE).
36.       Total employment in the energy sector, including ONE and the elec-
tricity departments of the local electricity and water distribution organiza-
tions (Regies) is about 30,000. Some problems are experienced in recruiting
technical and professional staff, partly because of the disparity between the
lower pay scales of the civil service compared to the private sector.
The Electric Power Subsector
37.       The electric power subsector in Morocco is organized as follows:
(a) ONE, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications (MTPC), generates 90% of the electric
power in the country, transmits it to the load centres, and
distributes some of this energy (about 37% of total consump-
tion) outside the large cities;
(b) eleven Regies, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
the Interior, purchase their power from ONE and dis-
tribute it in and around the large population centres and
account for about 50% of total consumption;
(c) Electras Marroquies, a private company under the jurisdic-
tion of MTPC, with limited installed capacity and distribu-
tion area in the extreme north of the country, accounts for
1% of total consumption;
(d) the Ministry of the Interior operates small systems in about
110 isolated localities, for some of which ONE is responsible
for maintenance, and which account for 2% of consumption; and
(e) captive plants, most of them linked to industrial enterprises,
account for about 10% of power generation and consumption.
Measures to improve sector organization and coordination are discussed in
paragraph 60.
38.       Historically, ONE has earned a low rate of return on assets and has
financed only about 20 percent of its capital expenditures through internal
cash generation. -The Government has provided about one-third of financing for
ONE's capital expenditures through increases in capital, while the balance has
been financed by borrowing, mainly abroad. By contrast, the Regies usually



- 10 -
generated cash on account of electricity sales more than sufficient funds to
finance electricity distribution network expansion; the surplus has been
applied to finance water distribution network expansion. In 1974, overall
cash generation in the electricity sub-sector, including consumers' contribu-
tions, amounted to about 45 percent of electricity system investments.
39.       Electricity demand has grown at about 8.5% per year since ONE's
creation in 1963, with a tendency to accelerate in the latter part of the
period. All the major towns and cities and about 70% of the smaller towns
are electrified, but only 11% of the rural population (including residents of
small towns) has public electricity supply. Total installed capacity in ONE's
interconnected power system is 803 MW (49% hydro, 51% thermal). The share of
hydropower in total generation has been declining (1963 - 93%, 1974 - 49%)
both because of an increase in the share of thermal in total capacity, and
because the rapid growth of irrigation, which is given precedence over hydro-
power in water use, has reduced the generation of existing hydro plants. Main
transmission is at 225, 150 and 60 kV.
40.       Through a loan of $25 million in FY74 (936-MOR), the Bank helped
finance part of ONE's 1973-77 capital expenditure programme for generation
and transmission. The loan also included financing for studies on electri-
city tariffs and on the organization of the electricity subsector in Morocco.
Technical performance by ONE under the project was good; the physical works
were completed on schedule and at cost savings of $4 million which have
since been applied to the financing of engineering studies for hydro plant
developments in various parts of the country. Financial performance of ONE
under Loan 936-MOR is discused in paragraphs 55-56.
41.        ONE's proposed expansion program up to 1980 is based on the assump-
tion that demand for power from ONE's interconnected system would grow by an
average of 11.5% per year from 1975 to 1980, a rate consistent with projected
energy demand growth (paragraph 31). The programme provides for the installa-
tion of about 650 MW of new generating capacity (about half thermal, half
hydro) and construction of 3,500 km of main transmission lines.
42.        Under Morocco's Third Five Year Plan (1973-77) planned investment
for ONE's expansion program (including rural electrification) is about DH
1,600 million, compared with 1968-72 expenditure of about DH 600 million.
Fifty-nine percent of planned investment is for generation, 23% for trans-
mission, 4% for distribution and 9% for rural electrification. These figures
do not include distribution investment by the Regies or investments by'the
Ministry of Interior or Electras Marroquies, for which information is not
available. ONE's capital expenditures during the Fourth Plan Period (1978-82)
are expected to be more than double those of the Third Plan level.
43.       Responsibility for rural electrification is divided amongst the
Ministries of Public Works, the Interior and Agriculture, ONE carrying the
major responsibility for implementation. Progress in extending public elec-
tricity supply to the rural areas has been slow, but the program is acceler-
ating. Planned investment for 1973-77 amounts to DH 143 million compared with



- 11 -
Dil 57 million in 1968-72. The program is financed partly from the state
budget and partly from the proceeds of a special 4.5% levy on ONE's receipts
from the sale of electricity.
44.       Employment in the power subsector is some 7,500, including about
4,300 for ONE. ONE's staff has increased about 6% per year since its crea-
tion in 1973 and is now almost entirely Moroccan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.        The Oum er Rbia is the second largest river in Morocco, and flows
from the Middle Atlas mountains near Khenifra in a westward arc to reach the
sea one hundred kilometers south of Casablanca. The potential of the river
and its tributaries for the generation of electricity, for irrigation and for
potable water has long been recognized. Before Independence in 1956, two
major dams were built in the river basin - the Bin el Ouidane/Afourer complex
on the el Abid river and the Im Fout dam on the Oum er Rbia - with the dual
purposes of electricity generation and irrigation water supply. Smaller,
single purpose regulating or diversion structures were constructed on the Oum
er Rbia at Kasba Tadla (irrigation), Daourat (power) and Maachou (power) (see
Map IBRD 11853 attached).
46.       The remaining potential of the Oum er Rbia and its tributaries for
multipurpose development has been reviewed several times in the past thirty
years. In 1969, following suggestions made by the Bank, and in view of an
increasing need to allocate water between competing demands, the Government
commissioned preparation of a Master Plan for the Oum er Rbia basin, a pre-
liminary version of which was completed in 1971 which was reviewed jointly
by the Government and FAO/Bank Cooperative Programme staff. Subsequently,
water available from the Oum er Rbia's main tributaries was reallocated for
upstream use; greatly increased demands for water for industrial purposes
emerged as a result of plans to construct a new port and petrochemical complex
on the coast near Casablanca; and more detailed regulation studies for the
existing diversion structures in the river basin became available. As a
result, the Government prepared a revised Master Plan, with the assistance of
consultants. FAO/Bank Cooperative Programme Staff visited Morocco in 1974 for
review and discussions and the study was completed in 1975.     The first stage
of development under the Master Plan is the completion of irrigation develop-
ment in the Doukkala and the Tadla perimeters, which can be carried out using
existing diversion structures, and which are being financed by loans from the
Bank (1201-MOR, for the Doukkala), USAID (Doukkala) and the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (Tadla). Together with associated down-
stream developments of irrigation and water supply (see paragraph 65), the
proposed project would form the second stage of development under the Master



- 12 -
Plan. An integrated feasibility study for the third stage, a multipurpose dan
at Dechra el Oued on the Oum er Rbia, is being financed under the Bank loan
for the Doukkala project.
47.       The proposed project was appraised in November, 1975.     At negotia-
tions in Washington in May, 1976 the Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Hassan
Belkoura of the Prime Minister's office. A Loan and Project Summary is at-
tached as Annex III. The Staff Project Report, No. 1156-MOR of June 11, 1976,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Purposes and Description
48.       The project is aimed at achieving the orderly development of the
scarce water resources of the Oum er Rbia river, and at meeting (a) grow-
ing national needs for electricity (b) future requirements for potable and
industrial water in the Atlantic coastal zone, notably as a result of the
construction of a port and petrochemical complex at Jorf el Lasfar and (c)
the water needs for completion of the development for irrigation of the area
known as the 'lower service' in the Doukkala. Expansion of the potable and
industrial water transmission and distribution system, and the irrigation
developments are not part of the project but may be considered for future
Bank financing.    The project also aims at strengthening managerial capacity
within ONE and at achieving improved coordination in the development of the
electric power subsector. It consists of:
(a) construction of the Al Massira concrete buttress-type dam at Sidi
Cheho on the Oum er Rbia river and ancillary works;
(b) construction of a 120-MW power station at the foot of the dam,
including the adjacent 225-kV substation and ancillary works;
(c) the construction of about 200 km of 225-kV transmission lines,
and the upgrading to 225-kV of substations to be connected to
such lines; and
(d) the preparation of preliminary designs and bid documents for
the Merija compensating dam and power station downstream of
Sidi Cheho.
Project execution began in November 1975. The dam would begin filling in the
winter of 1978/79 and would begin operating towards the end of 1979.
Project Execution
49.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Hydra-
ulic Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (Hydrau-
lique) and of ONE. Hydraulique is supervising construction of the dam with
the assistance of consultants. ONE is supervising construction of the



- 13 -
power station, with the assistance of consultants, and would directly super-
vise the substation and transmission works. Hlydraulique and ONE have engaged
the same consultants to carry out the preliminary studies for the Merija dam
and power station respectively. Hydraulique and ONE, which are both under the
authority of the Minister of Public Works, coordinate their activities relat-
ing to the project on a day-to-day basis. Similar arrangements functioned
satisfactorily for the Bank-financed Idriss I (Loan 643-MOR) and Bou Regreg
water supply (Loan 850-MOR) dams.
Operation and Maintenance of the Dam
50.        Operation and maintenance of the dam and the power station will be
primarily the responsibility of ONE. Prior to the commissioning of the dam,
ONE and Hydraulique would enter into an agreement defining in detail their
respective roles in the inspection, operation and maintenance of the dam
(Section 4.04 (c), draft Loan Agreement). Operation of the dam will be based
upon rule curves to be established by Hydraulique in agreement with the main
agencies with an interest in the release of water from the dam, notably ONE,
the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Potable Water Supply Office
(Section 4.04 (a), draft Loan Agreement). These rules will reflect the prior-
ities for water use set out in the Master Plan, namely first priority to pot-
able use, second to industrial use, third to irrigation and fourth to power
generation. Economic analysis indicates that this priority ranking would
maximize economic benefits from the project.
51.       The dam is designed with adequate instrumentation to aLlow contin-
uous monitoring of its soundness. Hydraulique would regularly inspect the dam
according to sound engineering practices (Section 4.04 (b), draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
52.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $167 million,
including duties and taxes. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex III.
The proposed Bank loan, for $49 million, would amount to 32 percent of total
project cost net of duties and taxes, and 54 percent of the project's foreign
exchange cost. It would finance the foreign exchange cost of (i) the power
station and adjacent substation, (ii) transmission lines and substation up-
grading, (iii) consultants services for the final designs and supervision of
construction of the power station and dam and (iv) consultants services for
the preliminary studies for the Merija power station and dam. That part of
the Bank loan to be used to finance expenditures by ONE ($43.7 million) would
be onlent by the Government to ONE on the same terms as the Bank Loan (Section
3.01 (b) draft Loan Agreement), and execution of the subsidiary loan agree-
ment would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. These monies
would cover the entire estimated foreign exchange cost of the items to be
implemented by ONE, except for a small amount of $0.6 million for access roads
and site buildings. The balance of the Bank loan, ($5.3 million) would
finance the foreign exchange cost of consultants engaged by Hydraulique to
supervise construction of the dam and prepare preliminary designs for the
Merija dam.



- 14 -
53.       The Government is at present undertaking efforts to mobilize external
financing to meet the remaining foreign exchange costs of the project ($41.2
million). The Government has confirmed that it would itself provide the
substitute funds necessary for successful completion of the Project, should
co-financing not materialize. The Bank Loan and any other external loan would
be linked by a cross-default provision (Section 5.01 (c), draft Loan Agreement)
The local costs relating to the dam and the preliminary studies for the Merija
dam, (items to be implemented by Hydraulique) totalling $55.0 million, would
be financed by the Government. Those relating to the power station, transmis-
sion lines, substation upgrading and the preliminary studies for the Merija
power station, (items to be implemented by ONE) totalling $21.9 million, would
be financed by ONE.
Organization and Staffing of ONE
54.       ONE has achieved high technical standards in the construction and
operation of its power facilities. Measured in terms of electricity sales/
employee and customers/employee, ONE's efficiency is reasonable and continues
to improve. Through an ongoing training programme ONE has been able to expand
its technical staff, maintain staffing standards, and at the same time pursue
a phased programme for replacing expatriate personnel by Moroccan staff. ONE's
main organizational and staffing weaknesses lie in the fields of accounting,
budgeting and financial planning. Under Loan 936-MOR, the Bank asked that ONE
engage independent external auditors and recruit a senior financial officer
with overall responsibility for financial matters. Independent auditors were
engaged in 1973. ONE experienced difficulty in recruiting an appropriately
qualified and experienced senior financial officer, but the post was filled in
May 1976 by an ONE staff member, following his completion of a training
programme. ONE has also had a study of its accounting procedures carried out
by consultants. As the next stage, ONE is to prepare specific proposals for
the reorganization of its financial departments under the senior financial
officer, and for the improvement of its accounting procedures. ONE would
exchange views with the Bank on these proposals before implementing them by
June 30, 1977 (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
ONE's Financial Position and Tariffs
55.       While ONE is well-run technically, its financial position has
deteriorated somewhat, despite increases in ONE's tariffs of 5 percent in May
1973, 5 percent in May 1974 and 18% in January, 1976. ONE's rate of return on
assets in operation declined from 2.1 percent in 1973 and 2 percent in 1974,
to zero in 1975, and is expected to be less than 1 percent in 1976. The main
reason for the decline in ONE's rate of return in 1975 was a sharp increase
in the average fuel cost per unit sold, due to extremely dry weather, which
reduced hydro generation. No substantial improvement is expected in 1976,
despite the major rate increase in January 1976, because of the sharp rises
in fuel oil and gas oil prices which took place in late 1975 and reduced the
level of subsidies to petroleum products (paragraph 32). Increases in ONE's
bulk rates have been passed on in full to final consumers through increases



- 15 -
in the rates charged by the Regies, whose financial position should therefore
remain strong. Despite some deterioration in ONE's financial position and a
possible decrease in internal financing of the Regies, the overall financial
position of the power subsector is estimated to remain adequate, but for the
imbalances in the sharing of revenue.
56.       Under Loan 936-MOR, ONE undertook to achieve a rate of return on
assets in operation of 3 percent in 1974, rising to 7 percent by 1981. How-
ever, these targets were set before the tripling of petroleum prices in late
1973, and the resultant need for sharp increases in electricity prices, if
they were to reflect the higher cost of fuel. As mentioned earlier (paragraph
32), the Government introduced subsidies to petroleum products in 1973, but
intends to eliminate them over the next two to three years. Any change in
fuel prices from their January 1, 1976 level would immediately be fully
reflected in ONE's electricity tariff (Section 4.07, draft Loan Agreement).
Accordingly it is reasonable to accept a somewhat lower rate of- return for
ONE during this adjustment period than implied by the rate of return require-
ment under Loan 936-MOR, while retaining the overall objective of a 7 percent
rate of return by 1981, particularly in view of the overall satisfactory
financial position of the electricity sub-sector noted above.
57.       The Government and ONE have asked that ONE's financial objectives be
framed in terms of a cash generation requirement rather than a rate of return
target, which is reasonable in view of the rapid growth of capital expendi-
tures foreseen for ONE over the next few years, and the resulting growth in
financing requirements. ONE's average internal cash generation in any year
and the preceding year would amount to at least 18 percent of average capital
expenditures over the same two years and the next following year, until 1979,
and to 20 percent thereafter (Section 4.03 (a), draft Project Agreement).
This definition allows ONE to take into account actual performance in the
current year when formulating proposals for a tariff increase to meet the cash
generation requirement in the following year, and therefore introduces automa-
tic adjustment of tariffs to take account of the impact of rainfall conditions
on ONE's average cost of generation. Each year ONE would review the adequacy
of its tariffs to meet the cash generation requirement in the following year,
and would submit the review, satisfactory to the Government, to the Bank by
October 31 (Section 4.03 (b), draft Project Agreement). Action to meet
the 1977 cash generation requirement would take place by January 1, 1977
(Section 4.03 (d), draft Project Agreement). On the basis of present fuel
prices, it is estimated that application of the cash generation requirement
would lead to the need for a tariff increase of 16 percent in 1977, but no
further increase in 1978. To even out the increases, and since increases
arising from changes in fuel prices are also expected, the 1977 rate increase
would be limited to 10 percent, over and above any increases to reflect higher
fuel prices (Section 4.03 (a), draft Project Agreement). In this case, it is
estimated that application of the cash generation requirement would lead to a
further rate increase of about 8 percent at the beginning of 1978, and accord-
ingly overall cash generation over the 1977-78 period would not be substantially
affected. ONE's rates of return are estimated at 2.7 percent in 1977, 3.9 per-
cent in 1978, 4.9 percent in 1979, and 6.8 percent in 1980.



- 16 -
58.       Under Loan 936-MOR, ONE commissioned consultants to carry out a
study of ONE's tariff structure. ONE has since updated the results of this
study to take into account the impact of the 1973 increase in fuel prices. On
this basis ONE is at present elaborating proposals for review by the Govern-
ment for the introduction of a marginal cost based tariff whose main features
in relation to the present tariff structure would be (a) simplification and
standardization of the tariff structure (b) a reduction in the degressivity of
tariffs and (c) the modernization of tariff differentials between peak, stand-
ard and off-peak demand periods. The Government would exchange views with the
Bank on progress in preparation of the new tariff structure as well as the
Government's final proposals in this respect, to be elaborated by June 30,
1977 (Section 4.03, draft Loan Agreement).
59.       ONE's major category of customers are Government agencies and sub-
divisions, of which the most important group, accounting for 60 percent of
ONE's sales, is the Regies. Under loan 936-MOR, the Government undertook to
ensure that all payments for electricity and services provided by the Govern-
ment by ONE would be met within 90 days, starting January 1, 1975. In order
to protect ONE's cash position, rather than monitor the payment performance
of individual Government agencies, the Government would in future ensure that
bills due ONE but unpaid by these agencies would at no time exceed one-sixth
of the value of sales to them during the previous year (Section 4.06, draft
Loan Agreement).
Organization of the Power Sub-Sector
60.       With two ministries and several agencies involved in the power
sub-sector, responsibility in the sub-sector is fragmented. There is a need
to improve coordination in the Government's control over the sub-sector, to
standardise codes, standards, practices and accounts, and, in some cases, to
improve delineation of areas of supply. Under Loan 936-MOR, ONE commissioned
consultants to undertake a study of the organization of the power sub-sector.
This study was completed in March 1976, and is now being reviewed by the
Government. After consultations with the various interested agencies, the
Government is to formulate specific legal, administrative and other proposals
for improving the organization of the electricity sub-sector by June 30, 1977;
the Government would exchange views with the Bank from time to time on the
progress in developing these proposals as well as on the final proposals
themselves (Section 4.03, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
61.        Procurement of the main project items is already under way.    The
following contracts have been let after international competitive bidd'ing in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement: (a) civil works for
the dam (let in November, 1975) (b) hydro-mechanical equipment for the dam
(March 1976) and (c) equipment and civil works for the power station (April
1976). Contracts for transmission lines and substation upgrading would be let
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines for Procurement; in the evaluation of bids for these contracts, Moroccan
equipment suppliers would be given a preference margin of 15 percent, or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for access roads and
site buildings (mainly workers' housing) have been let after local competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory. Land



- 17 -
required for the project is being acquired in accordance with Moroccan law for
compulsory purchase.
62.       Consultants services have been obtained in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Under contracts signed in 1974, the
Swiss consulting firm Alpinconsult prepared preliminary designs and bidding
documents for the power station (on behalf of ONE and being financed under
Loan 936-MOR) and for the dam (on behalf of Hlydraulique). Hydraulique has
extended its contract with Alpinconsult, to provide for preparation of final
designs and assistance for supervision of construction of the dam, and the
extension would be financed by the proposed loan. ONE has arranged to obtain
assistance from Electricite de France in supervising construction of the
power station. Garbe Lahmeyer International of Germany has been engaged by
lHydraulique for the preliminary study for the Merija dam, and by ONE for the
preliminary study of the Merija power station. Total consultants' services
(estimated base foreign cost $5.0 million) would amount to 76 manyears, at
an average cost of $5,500 per man-month (excluding local costs).
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements, estimated to be completed by December 31, 1980,
would be made against:
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures or 50 percent of local
currency expenditures (representing their estimated foreign
exchange content) for the power station and adjacent substation;
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures or, in the case of 'Local
procurement, of ex-factory price of equipment and materials
for the transmission lines and upgrading of substations;
-    20 percent of total expenditures for civil works and erection
for the transmission lines and substation upgrading;
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants services.
Retroactive Financing
64.       As mentioned in paragraph 61, procurement of all main project compo-
nents is already under way. This procedure was adopted in order to allow dam
construction to take place during the 1976 dry season, in order to avoid a
year's delay in project completion. Retroactive financing from the Bank loan
of up to $5 million of foreign expenditures between October 1975 and signature
of the loan is proposed (Paragraph 4, Schedule 1, draft Loan Agreement)'. Of
this amount, about $3.5 million relates to initial payments for the power
station, made at the time of contract signature in mid-June, 1976.
Benefits and Justification
65.       The main benefits from the project would be the approximate doubl-
ing of the power-associated hydro storage capacity in the country, an increase
in electric power availability, and provision of water for potable, indus-
trial and irrigation use. Taking into account the reduction of power genera-
tion from existing downstream hydro plants as a result of the water diver-
sions for irrigation and industrial and potable use under the project, and



- 18 -
future upstream diversions for the same purposes, effective electric power
generation from the project is estimated at 315 GWh in 1980, and would dec-
line to 240-250 GWh by 1995.   These estimates of power generation have becn
calculated on the basis that the pattern of releases from the dam would be
based on water demands for downstream use, to which priority has been given
over power generation (paragraph 50). Of the present total average flow at
Sidi Cheho of 3,300 Mm3 per year, 450 Mm3 have been allocated to potable and
industrial use and 800 Mm3 to irrigation. The allocation to potable and
industrial water is estimated to be sufficient to meet the growth of demand in
the Atlantic coastal zone up to the year 2000.    The major share of this growth
in demand is accounted for by the port and petrochemical complex at Jorf el
Lasfar for which preliminary studies are under way and which is scheduled to
be completed by 1982/3. A project including the transmission and distribution
works necessary to realize the potential of the Sidi Cheho dam for potable and
industrial water supply is at present being prepared, and is being considered
for Bank financing. The allocation to irrigation use would be sufficient to
allow the completion of irrigation development in the Lower Service of the
Doukkala Perimetre through an extension of 17,000 ha. A feasibility study for
this extension is available, and the project is also being considered for Bank
financing. Further potential exists for the development of irrigation based
on the Sidi Cheho dam, namely in the Upper Service of the Doukkala Perimetre.
However no feasibility studies for this development have yet been prepared,
and it has not been taken account of in the economic analysis for the pro-
posed project.
66.       Two measures have been used to assess the justification of the proj-
ect. First, the cost of the multipurpose project was compared with the sum
of costs of combinations of alternative projects which would be required to
achieve equivalent benefits. Specifically these alternatives were (a) for
power, a least cost alternative power system development program (a combina-
tion of hydro, steam and gas turbine plant), (b) for industrial and potable
water, a smaller dam at Sidi Cheho, and (c) for irrigation, completion of
irrigation development in the lower Doukkala for which an addition to the
small dam for water supply under (b) would be the least cost solution. This
analysis showed that the equalizing discount rate at which the cost of the
proposed project would equal the sum of the costs of the alternatives was
12.5 percent. The equalizing discount rate is relatively insensitive to
changes in the cost streams. Thus, the equalizing discount rate would only
decline to 11 percent as a result of (a) a 28 percent increase in capital cost
of dams, (b) a 14 percent decline in fuel savings resulting from hydro rather
than thermal generation, or (c) an increase in the cost of power plants of 40
percent.
67.       A second measure of the project's economic worth was obtained by
preparing an ordinary rate of return estimate; the various benefits are
valued in accordance with conventional procedures (i.e. present sales prices
for power and water and economic prices for irrigation) and the discount rate
is determined which equalizes the multipurpose scheme's costs and benefits.
Assuming that prices paid represent the minimum value of the benefit to the
consumers, such an approach also would provide a lower limit to the economic



- 19 -
rate of return. The rate of return calculated in this way amounts to 9.6
percent and would still amount to 8 percent if all costs increased by 25
percent or benefits declined by 20 percent.
Environmental Impact
68.       As a result of constructing the Sidi Cheho dam, a lake with a maxi-
mum area of 180 km2 will be formed. The effect on the environment is expected
to be modest because soil conditions are poor in the area and little is culti-
vated. About 5,500 people will have to be moved. In accordance with Moroccan
legislation, owners of the land and the assets will be fully compensated.
Discussions are at present under way between Hydraulique and the Ministry of
Interior about the possibility of providing such compensation in the form of a
resettlement scheme in adjacent areas, rather than through cash payments. Such
an arrangement has been successfully implemented for people displaced as a
result of construction of other dams in Morocco, and has made it easier to
ensure that such people are provided with alternative long-term means of
livelihood.
69.        Under Loan 1201-MOR, financing is being provided for the first stage
of a programme to monitor and control vector snails and incidence of bilharzia
in the Province of El Jadida. Extension of irrigation, the main likely source
of bilharzia, which can be carried out as a result of constructing the dam, is
all located in the El Jadida Province and would therefore be covered by this
programme. In addition, however, the Ministry of Health wtuld monitor the in-
cidence of vector snails and bilharzia in the vicinity of the Sidi Cheho re-
servoir, and take appropriate control and curative measures (Section 4.05,
draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ONE, the Report of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article III Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
ONE for that part of loan proceeds onlent to ONE would be a special condition
of loan effectiveness (paragraph 52).
72.       Features of the agreements of interest are described in paragraphs
50, 51, 53, 54, 56-60, 64 and 69 above.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 11, 1976



to
at
(0
43)
co
-4
X~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~
_ t: .owez o  eo o4                               9 9 9  o9!1 o 92 el  iIiS9  <   t a  mv @|s 
*   a   N   O   O   O   o  o   t   6   - O   e >   _  >   o  N   .   * ,   N  o   o   _   5 O  O  z   O   e   N  0   -a  _  -   I  
_ oa ooooo- o p  O,O Do Oosoo oO.oo o ooo_ ___O, o  .  00 :08  r  o_t~   ii     a     -
+w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r aao r s o s 3o                         Io   o 4O| III|lB 
S~~~~a* I,e oa                      J el      a            0 ZOO;     o= _            jIBii!kgf 1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I a,             _e
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. -U 0! -00                      00.. 0       j    -2>-E 
0 0                        0 0 0 0 00~~~~~~~d  
t                                                               u"i   31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
00    - ~~~~~~~~Pa'j  a'
****.                 9 9*9  1.*  *!  ~               - -   I  f   a-a
0            0~~~~~~~~0 O  0  0 
a  a            I~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~ 0  000  -  00
1!p- - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~* 0,~0. 0 0 
00003  0000.  000   0.3  000  000~~~~~~~~~~~~ga  00Z250  a  t s
3  ,   a~~~4aa  a                        a                 0  000   nsa 0~~~~Ga  5--
... ZA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,ge. taa
-,  C  -  ..  ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 0 0 0 l 0 0  0  -  0~951H                 uS
1  .----                   OOOOj  *j  fl 0.0  5  00  .~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~is
0 0 0 2 0   0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0   0 1 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   ,*,3  0  0   .1..   -   I   I  -~~~t! l  ~ 1
-   305 -     0 0 0   . . 0   0          0                     0 o   o. O o Of4



Annex I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                     Estimates                   Proiected                     Anm,aal Growth Rates          Percent of
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS1967                    1972       197   .    1974       1975       1976       197         1980    1968-72       19Tz-T      1975-80      GDP 1974
(1974 Prices)
Cross Dometic Product                   4549      5961        6121       6726       7114       7167       8081        9870      5.6          6.3         6.6         100.0
Gsins from Terns of Trade (+)            43        -368       -317          0        166         69         -20       -554        -           -
Gross Domestic lncone         ~~~~~4416  E5959      1804       67-26      7280       7 3   ~    T6l        9316       3.6          7.56                    100
Imports (ci-. NFS)                      1404      1587        1978       2163      2833        2503       2690       3416       2.5        11.1          7.9          32.1
Exp.rt.    "1 (import -spscity)          1251     -1534       1863       2115       1978       2424       2617       2688       4.2         11.3         4.1           51.4
Resou,rce Cap                             153        53        115         48        855l         79        73        728         -           -            -           0.7
Consumption Expenditures                3991      4972        5299       5781      .6419       6361       6697      8019        3.2          5.3         5.6          85.9
Gross fined Investment                  569        697        715        9959      1602       1256       1387      1960        4.1         14.8        12.8          14.3
Dometic Sa-ings                          426        621        505        945        856       1275       1364      1296        7.9         17.1         5.4          14.1
National Savings                         422        736        729       1230       1252       1535       1631      1565       11.8         17.3         4.1          17.6
EXTERNAL TRADE                                                                                                                                                    Pteto
(Correct prices)                                                                                                                                                  Pt-ta 197
Foodst.ffs                            143       13,6       262         420       658         401        398        473      -1.0        24.0          2.0          19 4
Petroleum                              25        56         74         258       268         360        434        7 35     17.5        41.7         19.1          11.9
Intermediates                         166       307        437        711        732         988       1182       2029      13.1        31.0         19.1          32.9
Cs It.1 goods                         105       154         207        326       639         553        634        984       8.0        32.7         20.5          1 .1
Cos--ne   goods                        79       124         168        192       263         252        283        423       9.4         17.9        14.1            >.9
Non-factor services                   102       199         231        256       239                    408        628      14.          155621.
Total                              62-0      97        1380       213        279         207        538        57         9.3        27.9         162          10.0
Exports                                              f                    13        29           97        53          25        9b         T   -        60            6o.
Phosphate                             108       146         192        932       854        1371       1599       1673       6.2        61.2         10.2          4    
Agricoltsrs1 Products                 238       357        517         463       439         488        529        739       8.4          8.2         F4.1"I 
Other minrals                          41.       44          62        505        61         558        142        200       1.4         26.4        12.3            4.7
M-anFct.-e                             37        93        140         197       232         288        341        562      20.2        29.7         19.1              3
No-f-uto     srvie                    129       302         390        422       '16         549        634        97       1.8.6        16.0        15.5           i 
Total                     553       943       1301        2111 ~5531952         2815-      3-24       4150      11.3         28.0        51.9          Inn 10
Trade indices (197T4=1.000)
Export price index                  0.463     0.522      0.56i       1.000      1.077      1.195      1.231      1.280       2.4         18.7          4.2
Import price index                  0.512     0.647      o.656      1.000       0.987      1.161      1.240      1.544       4.8         13.9         7.5
Tero   of trade                     0.904     0.807      0.885       1.000      1.091      1.029      0.922      0.828       -2.1         4.2        -3.2
VALUE ADDED RY SECTOR                                 -        (Share of GDP at curet       rce)(Cntat194prcn
Agri-ulture                          27.4      27.8       24.4        22.        202        1.1        16.2        15.5      5.9          1.7          3.0
Mcsnig                                5.2       5.2         5.8       14.3       12.2       15.3       14.9        12.5       5.6         8.1         M.
Other industry                       20.3      20.4       21.6        19.0       21.7       21.4       21.9       25.4       5.7          8.7           C
Ser--ce                              47.5      46.6       48.2        44.0       45.9       46.2       47.0       49.0       5.3          7.0
PUPLTC FINANCE    (Annual data at current Prices and exchange rates)                                                                                                Percet of
(Central Gove-met)                                                                                                                                                 GSP 1974
Current receipts                      453'      773        5013       1628       2096         .          ..                                                         24.2
Curret expenditor-                    455       729        882        1479       1984         .          ..                   ..                                    22.0
Rudget-ry savings                      37        44         131        149        112                                                                                E ...2.
Inecut.ent expenditurs               22         59         94        512         854         .          .                    .                                     7.6
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILSI.lEt                                                                EALO       ETA
(As It Total Current E.pend.)         13961       1970       1972       1974        1975      GOVERNMENT
Educaticon                             26.1        28.2       31.1       17.1       15.5       INVESTMENT                              197 I..974         ..L.
Other Social Services                   11.6  -     95.7       9.2        5.6        4.5      Agriculture                                 236             29.2
Agricultur                               8.0        7.2        7.1        4.3        3.6       Tndustry and mining                        150             16.1
Other Econoic Service                   6.3         9.3        4.8        2.8        2.6       Economic infrastructure                    105             13.0
Adlnicitration .sd Defesse              31.3       30.9       35.2       18.5       15s.6      Eduction and training                       69              8.5
Other                                  16.7        18.7       16.6       51.        58.        Other social sectors                        76              9.4
Total Current Expenditures            100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0      500.0       Administration and security                102             12.6
________________________________________________________________________ Regional development                       52             6.4
Unclassified                                 384.8
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1968-      1973-      5q75-                 Total                                      808            500.0
1972       1977L       1980
Av-roge ICON                                        2.4        2.3          :        ~         FINANCING
Import El.stucity                                   0.5        i.8         1.2                Puhlic sector savings                       280             34.7
Average NatIonal Savings Rate                      12.8       18.2        17.1                 External borro.ing                          42              5.2
Margixal National Savings Rate                      0.3        0.4         0.1                 Domestic horrouing                         486             60.1
Total financing                                            100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                      Toa     m1mnt                                      Value Added Per Wocrker      1 960  Prices    E.Rc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   In Thousands            '~fTtl               196o-71           m    ..Dollars         Percnt of Aversge            1960-71
1960      1971          1960    1971      Gro.th Rote           1960          1~2         196       IU            osG-th Rats
Agriculture                     I,8~4       5988          622       4.7           0.7               3496                     51.8      566SrP.
Industry                          369       593           12.5     16.3          4.4               1328        1354         592.2     154.6            0.5
Services                          645       895           21.7     84.7           3.1              1393        1558        201.6      177.2             1.0
Iftclassified                      148       155           3.6..   4...3         ..:.-                          ----
Total                   2,~~~~~~~~~950  3,632    100.0    10.              .795                                     100.                        2.2.
Unemployment                       308       349            -        -            1.2
not applicable
not available
-  nil or negligible



BALANCE OP PAYMIENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANICE AND DEBT                                             Anene  I
(amounts In millions of U.S. doilars at correct prices)                                            Ptge 3 of 3 p-ags
ActuaI                     Est.              Projected
SEUGKARY OF RALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                9          7           5        6
Estporto  IclS. NFS                      553     hi)     1301      2115       1952     2815      3246      4150
IEop-rta  foci. NFS                    -620     -977    -1380     -2163     -2799     -2907     -3338     -5273
Resource balance                         -67     -34      -79       -48      -847       -92       -92     -1124
Nat fact-    -   -ervices                -37      38      138       266       421       291       323       401
Itereat race ipta                          3       9       11        24        34        49        65        65
Istecest psyi.eots                      -17      -38      -40       -44       -41       -72       -85      -143
NBt isee-t-est Income                    -22     -28      -38       -31       -46       -38       -40        55
Worker'- roitta nces                      41     139      249       356        481      399       440       592
Other (nat)                              -42     -44      -44       -39        -7       -48        -51       -63
Correct tranaf.r.  (set)                  35      43       46        19        -25       24        25         31
C-rrent accoost bol.nc-                  -69      47     15        237      -451       221       256      -691
Private direct invett. (net)              10      24       15         5         6         6         7         10
Publifc N+LT bo.os
Disbursemects                          88     III       82       148      4Oa        243       357       774
R.pa.yota                             -29     -79      -79       -82      -121      -121      -i60       -321
Net disbursements                      59      32        3        66        360       122       197      423
Shoot-ton capital (nat)                  -15     -35      -75      -158        155       -96      -114       -22
Copital oa1  .                            -4       7      -13       -27        -_         -         -         -
Change In reserves                        19     -75      -35      -123        -5S     -254       -345      250
Level of reseruco
- anount                                  90     256      331       424       504       758       1103      957
- months- inportr                        1.7     3.1      2.9       2.5        2.0      3.1       4.0       2.2
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Br-nts                           23      17       40        42                  47        50         SO
Total public hi+LT loans                  ..     177      169       553                 511       523        977
IBRD/IDA                               ..      97       49       141                 120       120        140
Othbr intern'l icatitti.oss            ..                4        38                  27         29        36
Covernoents                            ..      -       100       246                 281        302       374
Sopplbrat' credits                     ..      61        4        31                  63        7?        248
Finoncial i sititotios. ...                    19       11        97                  -          -        179
iXTERNAL DEBT                                   Actual Debt OstatsodinM on Dec. 31. 1974                                                             Actual                Eto
DitburR.d Ot1y               Percent                                                       1967    1972    197      974    195
World Bank                                        I4                       14.2                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IDA                                                26                       2.5                       Poblic Debt Oat. + Disbursed       490      9f.    97 '     04o    1-W
Other MoItilat-rol                                  7                       0.7
CoverGno-ts                                       691                      66.2                           Ist-eat on Public Debt         17      8'?     48      44      43
Supplierst                                         79                       7.6                          ROpayycnts on Poblit Debt        29      79      79      77      n
Finsec-Il Inotitotions                             64                       6.0                           Total FPbli  Debt Service       46     117     119     121     13
Bondtt                                                                                                    Othbr Debt Service (sot)                ..
Poblic Debts s.e.i.                                29                       2.8                           Total Debt Service (net)        46     117     119     121     17
Total fublic M+LT Debt                           1043                     100.0
Burdos cn Efport Ear-isgo (9)
Othbr h'+LT Debtt
Short-tero Debt (disb, only)                      ..                       ..                             Poblti  Debt Service           P.3    12.4     9 1     N 0
ToteS Debt Srvice               .3     12 4    12 1     f.0     - 7
TDS + Direct Incest. Iso.      12.3    15 4    12 1     7.4     7 2
Average Toe-s cf Poblic Debt
lnt. so % Prior Year DOD       2.4     4.4     4.5      3.        o
Amsort. on % Prior YVer DOD     G.5     9.1             7       7.4
TBRD Debt Out.ndDisborned
IBRD ot % Public Debc OD          6.O     9,5     10.0    14 "    14.4
IBRD so % Public Debt Servtoo     E.7     10 7    14 4    12 1    1 7
IDA Debt Oct.OodDSibu-red
ISA us % Public Debt OD           0.0      1.7    2 4      2 =      .1
IRA us % Pubic Debt Service      D0.0     0 1        2     0 1     2 1



Annex II
Page 1 of 5 pages
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                US$1 Million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number            Borrower                Purpose        Bank        IDA       Undisbirsed
Ten       Loans   Fully disbursed                        152.0
79       1965    Kingdom of Morocco      Education                  10.2         ---
167       1969    Kingdom of Morocco      Highways                    7.3         ---
643       1969    Kingdom of Morocco      Irrigation      46.0                  12.o
266       1971    Kingdom of Morocco      Education                   8.5        4.8
848       1972    CIH                     DFC (Tourism)   15.0                   5.9
850       1972    ONEP                    Water Supply    48.0                  13.4
338       1972    Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture                10.0         ---
890       1973    BNDE                    DFC             24.0                   1.2
936       1973    ONE                     Power           25.0                   6.3
955       1974    Kingdom of Morocco      Highways        29.0                  21.6
1017       1974    Maroc-Phosphore         Industry        50.0                   7.9
1018       1974    Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture     32.0                  17.6
1061       1974    BNDE                    DFC             30.0                  19.4
555       1975    Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture                14.0       14.0
1123       1975    Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture     18.5                  18.5
12011/     1976    Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture     30.0                  30.0
12021/     1976    Kingdom of Morocco      Tourism         21.0                  21.0
122011/    1976    Kingdom of Morocco      Education       25.0                  25.0
1976    CIH 2/                  DFC (Tourism)   25.0                  25.0
Total                                               570.5       50.0      244.4
of which has been repaid                           73.5
Total now outstanding                               497.0       50.0
Amount sold                          1.3
of which has been repaid           1.3
Total now held by Bank and the IDA                  497.0       50.0
Total undisbursed                                   225.6       18.8      244.4
1/  Signed but not yet effective   2/ Approved but not yet signed
Prior to exchange adjustment
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1976)
Amount in US $ Million
Year       Obligor     Type of Business                     Loan     Equity     Total
1962       BNDE       Development Bank                      --        1.5        1.5
1966       CIL         Canning FactorI/                    0.9        0.5        1.4
1976       SCM        Cement Factory.=                      --        1.5        1.5
Total gross commitments                         0.9        3.5        4.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          0.9       0.7         1.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                --       2.8         2.8
Total undisbursed                                --        1.5        1.5
1/ Approved by Board on March 30, 1976 but not yet signed



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
November 30, 1978.
Progress in implementing the project is now satisfactory although
considerable problems were first experienced with management and procurement,
and some procurement difficulties continue. The major project structure,
Idriss ler Dam, is completed and equipment of 13,200 ha out of a total of
35,000 ha is completed. Another 3,850 ha are expected to be commissioned soon.
Project execution was delayed in 1975 due to a shortage, now rectified, of
concrete canalettes. Additional infrastructure for the project area, includ-
ing a sugar cane processing factory and flood protection works, are being
provided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Cr. No. 266 Second Education Project: US$8.5 million Credit of August 18,
1971; Date of Effectiveness: December 10, 1971;
Closing Date: April 30, 1976.
The project included the expansion and improvement of specific
sections of the secondary, vocational and higher educational systems, and
technical assistance for project administration and school maintenance.
Subsequently, the Association agreed not to finance two Vocational Training
Centers and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Accordingly, an amount of
about US$0.9 million has been transferred to the unallocated category for
future reallocation and/or cancellation. Initial delays occurred in the
appointment of consultant architects, in the recruitment of local personnel
and technical assistance experts for the Project Unit and in procurement.
However, execution is now proceeding satisfactorily, and all civil works
contracts under the project have been awarded. Physical execution of the
project is forecast for completion by the end of 1976, about one year and
a half later than originally planned, and an extension of the closing date
will be necessary.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now expected to
be fully committed by June 1976, as against the appraisal estimate of March
1974.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1977.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are being completed on schedule except
for the treatment plant and the training school, which are both about six
months behind schedule. The financial position of the Borrower, Office
National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), is satisfactory. In early 1976 consultants
have completed a tariff study which will assist in improving ONEP's long-
term financial performance. Consultants have recently been engaged to under-
take a management study for ONEP.
Ln. No. 890 Sixth BNDE Project; US$24 million of May 14, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The loan was fully committed by May 1974, about six months earlier
than expected, due to rapid improvement of the investment climate since mid-
1973. Disbursements are also running slightly ahead of the appraisal estimate
and should be completed by June 1976.
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of Effective-
ness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Physical implementation of the project is practically complete.
Savings amounting to about US$4.0 million are being applied to consultant
services for feasibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid
documents for 5 hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on
imported oil. Although electricity rates were sharply increased on January 1,
1976, ONE's rate of return has not yet reached the covenanted level because
of even sharper increases in the price of imported inputs.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway began in early 1975,
8 months behind schedule; two contracts were awarded for the equivalent of
about $21 million, 30 percent above the appraisal estimate as a result of
world inflation. Purchase of maintenance equipment and work on the highway
improvement program are proceeding satisfactorily, close to the appraisal cost



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
estimates. The urban traffic and transport study in the towns of Casablanca
and Rabat is nearing completion. The Government has recently awarded a con-
tract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Planning
Office in the Ministry of Public Works.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
June 39, 1977.
Progress in project execution is good, although there is likely to
be a delay in completion of one to three months, due to a delay in the civil
works component of the turnkey contract. Commercial operations of the first
production unit are presently scheduled to start in June 1976, and construc-
tion of all units should be completed by October 1976.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was commissioned in June, 1975,
one month later than originally scheduled, but in time to process the 1975
harvest. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule but work on
the flood protection dykes is about nine months behind schedule. The studies
of pollution control and the incidence of bilharzia on the Rharb plain have
not yet been started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
This loan is expected to be fully committed shortly. Disbursements
are roughly in line with appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project execution is on schedule. The project unit has been created,
its staff appointed, and the project co-ordinating committee has been estab-
lished.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, '1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Project execution is somewhat behind schedule due to staff con-
straints and organizational problems which are presently being reviewed with
the Government. Bidding for topographical and soil surveys is expected to
begin shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Limit Date for Effectiveness: June 28, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February
27, 1976; Limit Date for Effectiveness: June 28, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Limit Date for Effectiveness: June 21, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
MOROCCO - SIDI CHEHO MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco.
Beneficiary:         Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and the National
Electricity Office (ONE).
Amount:              $49 million in various currencies.
Terms:               Repayment over 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace,
with interest at 8.85 percent.
Relending Terms:     $43.7 million of the Bank loan would be onlent by the
Government to ONE on the same terms as the Bank loan to
the Government.
Project
Description:       The purpose of the project is to assist in the rational
development of water resources in the Oum-er-R'bia basin,
and help meet growing demand for electric power, indus-
trial and potable water and water for irrigation devel-
opment. It consists of:
(a) construction of the Al Massira concrete buttress-
type dam at Sidi Cheho on the Oum-er-R'bia river
and ancillary works;
(b) construction of a 120-MW power station at the foot
of the dam, including the adjacent 225-kV substation
and ancillary works;
(c) the construction of about 200 km of 225-kV trans-
mission lines; and the upgrading to 225 kV of
substations to be connected to such lines; and
(d) the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and
power station downstream of Sidi Cheho.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Cost Estimates:
Millions of US$
Hydraulique /1    -    ONE ------   -----Total Cost------
Local Foreign     Local  Foreign    Local Foreign   Total
Land, compensation,
roads and buildings   14.6    3.7        4.6    6.4      19.2     10.1    29.3
Dam and dykes          15.9   17.8         -      -        15.9    17.8    33.7
Equipment               2.1    6.9        3.2   29.4        5.3    36.3    41.6
Engineering/
Administration         1.2    3.0        2.5    0.4        3.7     3.4     7.1
Studies                 0.2    1.3         -     0.3        0.2     1.6     1.8
Taxes and duties        6.8     -         5.0     -        11.8      -     11.8
Total base cost        40.8   32.7       15.3   36.5       56.1    69.2   125.3
Contingencies:
Physical             5.4    5.4        2.3    2.8       7.7      8.2    15.9
Price                8.8    7.8        4.3    5.0      13.1     12.8    25.9
55.0   45.9       21.9   44.3       76.9    90.2   167.1
Total                  100.9              66.2              167.1
Financing Plan:
Amount
Source             ($ million)                  Items financed
Bank loan              49.0        Foreign exchange cost of (i) the power
station and adjacent substation, (ii)
transmision lines and substation up-
grading, (iii) consultants services
for the final designs and supervision
of construction of the power station
and dam, and (iv) consultants services
for the preliminary studies for the
Merija power station and dam.
Parallel co-financier              Remaining foreign exchange costs
(not yet identified)   41.2
/1   Hydraulique Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works and Communica-
tions.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
ONE                    21.9        Local costs of (i) land, compensation,
roads and buildings relating to the
power station, (ii) the power station
and adjacent substation, (iii) trans-
mission lines and substation upgrading,
(iv) consultants services for final
designs and supervision of construction
of the power station and of preliminary
designs of the Merija power station.
Government             55.0       Remaining local costs
Estimated
Disbursements:
Millions of US$
FY77      FY78       FY79      FY80       FY81
Annual              10.0        9.0      16.5      11.5        2.0
Cumulative          10.0      19.0       35.5      47.0       49.0
Procurement          Procurement of the main project items is under way.    The
Arrangements:       following contracts have been let after international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement: (a) civil works for the dam (to Campenon-
Bernard of France, in November 1975); (b) hydro-mechanical
equipment fo the dam (to Bouchayer-Viallet-Schneidder of
France in March 1976); and (c) the power station and sub-
station at Sidi Cheho (to Brown-Boveri and Company of the
Federal Republic of Germany in April 1976). Contracts
for transmission lines and upgrading of substations
would be let after international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement;
in evaluation of bids for these contracts, Moroccan
equipment suppliers would be given a preference margin of
15 percent, or the prevailing import duty, whichever is
lower. Contracts for access roads and site buildings have
been let after local competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory. Land re-
quired for the project is being acquired in accordance
with Moroccan law for compulsory purchase. Retroactive
financing of up to $5 million would be provided from
the Bank Loan, for the power station and adjacent
substation and for consultants services.
Consultants:         Consultants services have been obtained in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Under con-
tracts signed in 1974, the Swiss consulting firm Alpin-
consult prepared preliminary designs and bidding documents
for the dam (on behalf of the Hydraulique Directorate of
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications) and the



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
power station (on behalf of ONE). Hydraulique has extended
its contract with Alpinconsult to provide for preparation
of final designs and assistance for supervision of construc-
tion of the dam, and the extension would be financed by
the proposed loan. ONE has engaged Electricite de France
to assist in the supervision of construction of the power
station. Garbe-Lahmeyer International of the Federal
Republic of Germany has been engaged by Hydraulique for
the preliminary study for the Merija dam, and by ONE for
the preliminary study of the Merija power station. Total
consultants' services (estimated base foreign cost $5.0
million) would amount to 76 manyears, at an average cost
of $5,500 per man-month (excluding local costs).
Rate of Return:      Lower limit of economic rate of return:    9.6 percent.
Staff Project
Report:            No. 1156-MOR of June 11, 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      1-1/2 years (June 1974/November 1975),
excluding work on preparation of
Oum-er-Rbia Master Plan since 1969.
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:    ONE; consultants who prepared Oum-er-Rbia
Master Plan under direction of Ministry
of Agriculture; Hydraulic Directorate
of Ministry of Public Works; FAO/IBRD
Co-operative Programme.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:    June 1974
(d) First Bank mission to review
project:                         November 1974 1/
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:     November 1975
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         June 3, 1976
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:      October 15, 1976
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank has already approved all major contracts for procurement
and consultants. During negotiations, the construction schedule was discussed
and amended in accordance with the various contracts. Also during negotiations
a set of statistical data covering the main aspects of ONE's operations was
discussed with ONE, which ONE agreed to include in its first progress report
each year.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Government to formulate proposals for the reorganization of the electric
power sub-sector and for a revised electricity tariff structure, and
exchange views with the Bank on such proposals by June 30, 1977 (para-
graphs 58, 60).
(b)  Government to see that rule curves for operation of the Al-Massira dam
are established before its commissioning (paragraph 50).
(c)  Hydraulique Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(Hydraulique) to regularly inspect the Al-Massira dam (paragraph 51).
1/ Apart from discussions of project between the Government and the Bank, in
the context of the review of the Oum-er-Rbia Master Plan, going back to
March 1970.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) National Electricity Office (ONE) and Hydraulique to enter into an
agreement defining their respective roles in the inspection, operation
and maintenance of the Al-Massira dam, before its commissioning (para-
graph 50).
(e)  The Ministry of Public Health to monitor the Sidi Cheho reservoir for
the incidence of bilharzia and of vector snails, and to take any
measures necessary to prevent an increase in the incidence of the
disease (paragraph 69).
(f) Government to ensure that the average amount of bills due to ONE by
its agencies and subdivisions at any time for purchase of electricity
and related services does not exceed one sixth of sales in the previous
year (paragraph 59).
(g)  ONE to pass on in full to its customers through changes in its tariffs
any changes in the prices of fuels used by ONE from their January 1,
1976 levels (paragraph 56).
(h) ONE to prepare proposals for improvement of its accounting procedures
and for reorganization of its financial services, and to exchange
views with the Bank on such proposals prior to their implementation
by June 30, 1977 (paragraph 54).
(i) ONE to achieve cash generation of 18 percent from 1977 to 1979, 20
percent thereafter, provided that any increase of ONE's tariff in
1977 would be limited to 10 percent, other than any increase necessary
to cover increased fuel prices (paragraph 57).
(j) ONE to review its tariffs each year in relation to cash generation
requirement and to provide the review, satisfactory to the Government,
to the Bank by October 31 each year (paragraph 57).
(k) Tariff action in respect of 1977 to be taken by ONE not later than
January 1, 1977 (paragraph 57).



I BR D 12065R
12-                   10 To                                    TANGIERS                4-                    2-  JUNE 15E76
MOROCCO                                                                   Zem O-
MAIN POWER SYSTEM                                                                           M,D1rERRANEAN       SEA
FOSSIL FUEL     RESOURCES                                                  /
EXISTING  IN EXECUTION PLANNED PROJECT                                       L'raBik- mzourbe0                  l
0      _Q0 HYDRO POWER STATION                                                                                M       M < d>
0                    STEAM POWER STATION                                          k El oi  MaJ-              El Kh.-          JDA
Q      Q)             GAS TURRINE                                                    RIC
A                     225KV SUBSTATION
A                     156KV SUBSTATION                                                                                              -34
- --   225KV TRANSMISSION LINE                                       Gh,b Dehd! 
. . _____        -O    K150KV LINE, FUTURE 225KV           M.he-di                                 El M.-I
150KV LINE                                        CASABLA             ;
BOKV LINE                                                     MM
m    COAL                                    (   l|                                         Tth.di,.
Z  PETROLEUM
NATURAL GAS
BITUMINOUS SCHISTS                                                    K       hre El O                                     B.. Arb
(iD  OIL REFINERY                                                 ICHE
OIL PIPELINE
NATURAL GASLINE                                                                                                              PFuig  
I Kdlg.                                             Fig-ig ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32~
 CITIES AND TOWNS
PERENNIAL ANO INTERMITTENT RIVERS                    T                                  K-;.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Emauir        h,chaoikrku    \     _          Tebi a  
-30~ I)                                                                               4,.(S
o 40   9   10   1jo 2d/         / C  ok                                     - ___  ,t D                              e  ,1  tnt, ro   'n  do o
EILOMETERS                                                                                          U t  P? --13'l  a@rx  SEAx2Ns
E-                                jt-     t                           ,f-d                    3
/                   -=-~~~- /  ines                                             L30nim  .>  0         oAt0BsesB
M-u, Eddhbi ~ ~   ~      ~      M0kh    , 
e-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                 c"I/ 
L   90  12-  160~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            5 0M Ch-k
-  ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                     p.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0 
0 /'T
Ae~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                               IJ-?  ~






IBRD 11853R
9-                            8.                              7-                             o                             5-                           JANUARY 1976
Cosbloncon                                                                                KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
A  T L A    N  T I C                     /                                                                                  Development of the Oum Er R'Bia Basin
\NNEWN Existing irrigation areas
El J d'd     t       MAACHOU       OBe,rech,d                                                                                 Project areas
Future extensions
/ 33'3 Existing dams
/   \, >   kDAOURAT  Settct                                       Khen fros,                      D   Potential dam sites       33'
/  ,<f_ 9 >  @g  tFAREGH        O          Oued Zem          IMIZDIFANE   0                          Hydro power plants
/ o\> SIDI SMAIt %g3                         t&/4 Khouribgru                                                             / ) =o Tunnel
/MRRA' t  Main irrigation canals
ZEMA                                               L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nc AE UO             Z----Rivers
gNINERHARBIAit   IDI BENNOUR                                                                                   2  30 9   59 69 70 90
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     dl/f'
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ( \-Internztinonl beundories =                                                                 - 
z32 | 32S- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A71ANTIC                                                                /        Fe5
<                   a           <th     CHOUARIT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <                       Cosobloncog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Csoioc
Bemni                 e                        i  ~      34C EAN  0 h
-357 ->\ dCa ~ Agod/ w                        30'
1LALLA TAKERKOUST   t  0                                                    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATANI  RAA  C)
A  5                   0~~~~~~5'0
l~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C E A NRE T HdOYno  d 
9  4  \   8     <s              7                                                    gorldBanLzedlz=plal; PZmt b) Ihe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



