Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
C,4Z~ ZZq AFV-'
Rept No. P-5238-NEP
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 45.5 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 17, 1991
This doeument has a resticted ditibutio and may be ued by recipent only tn de performne of
their official *duti  Its coten may not otherwe be disosd wihut World Baok autorizati



s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    e
CURIENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Nepalese Rupee (NR)     =     100 paisa
US$1                    *     NRs 30.2
WEIGTS AND NASURES
1     .     Liter (1 liter = 0.26 US gallons)
lcd   =     Liter per capita per day
ma    =     Cubic meter (1 nm - 1000 1)
ml    .     Million liters (1 Ml - 1000 re)
mld   =     Million liters per day
l/sec       Liter per second
n m         Millimeter (1 mm - 0.03937 inch)
m     -     Meter (1 m - 3.28 feet)      -
km    -     Kilometer (1 km'- 0.62 mile)
sq.km       Square kilometer (1 sq.km = 0.386 square mile)
ha          Hectare (1 ha - 0.01 km2 - 2.47 acres)
K     =     Gram (18 = 0.035 ounce)
mgil -      Milligram per liter (I mg - 0.001 g)
ASBURVIATIONS
FYDP  -     Fifteen-Year Development Program
VMGW        His Majesty's Government of Nepal
TM!   -     International Monetary Fund
NWSC  =     Nepal Water-Supply Corporation
PE    -     Public Enterprise
SAC   -     Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF   -     Structural Adjustment Facility
T&T   -     Trade and Transit
UNDP  -     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YR
July 16 - July 15



VOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
MMBN WATER SPY AND AM SMITATION URABILTATON PROJECT
Credit and Prject Su sry
Borrowert         The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiar:      Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC)
nouDts            SDR 4S.5 mi.llion (equivalent to US$60.0 million)
Termss            Standard, with 40 years maturity
On-lending Terms: Consistent with project and sector objectives, tenm and
conditions of on-lending from Government to NISC would be as
follows:
-     Water supply components 502 loan and 5O0  grant.
_     Sewerage  and  sanitation  components  and  technical
assistance 1002 grant.
-     Interest on loans of about US$23.0 million at 92 per
annum, repayment over 19 years, including four years
grace period on principal: foreign ezchange risk to be
borne by Borrower.
Financing Plans   IDA         US$60.0 million
UNDP        US$ 3.4 million
Government US$ 7.6 mllion
Total       US$71.0 mllion
Econoic Rate
of setua    I   About 9.52 on components for which benefits were quantifiable,
accounting for 31? of project cost.
Staff Appraisal
Report         : Report No. 8340-NEP
IBRI 22087
This document has a rstcted disbution an may be used by reipints ony in t pef mmanc g
of thei officW dutes. Its contents may not oterwse be dclosed without Wodd Bank aUtodZtiaO



KEMORIANVM AND RUCO)MNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TEs INTERNATIONAL oEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE ZE)CUTIVZ DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO NEAL
TOR AN URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHBILITATION PLROECT
The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to Nepal for SDR 455. million (US$ 60.0 million equivalent) is submitted
for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity, and would help finance an urban water supply and sanitation
rehabilitation project.  The Government would onlend US$23.0 milliou of the
credit proceeds to the Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) at 92 for over 19
years, inclusive of a four-year grace period. The balance of the funds would be
passed to NWSC in the form of grants. The United Nations Development Programe
(UNDP) is expected to provide cofinancing in the form of grant funds amounting
to US$3.4 million.
PART I
COUNTRY POLICIES AD BNK GCROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  sE
1.        Nepal--one of the poorest countries in the world--faces a uniquely
difficult development challenge. Its development efforts in recent decades have
been hindered by a number of fundamental and persistent constraints:
(a) The country's rugged terrain and land-locked location increase
transport and distribution costs, and make communications difficult
and benefits from international trade harder to reap: this, together
with the country's poor resouwce endowment and inappropriate policies,
has tended to depress rates of return on investments and undenmine
their potential for economic growth.
(b) Nepal's long and open border with India, while conferring some
benefits, has limited its flexibility in designing and implementing
independent economic policies. Domestic policy formulation in such
key areas as trade, interest rates, exchange rates and pricing, has
to take account of developments across the border, and this has
resulted in a large degree of duplication of India's distorted
incentive regime, particularly in trade and Industrial policy.
(c) Continued high population growth has increased pressure on limlted
arable area and contributed to widespread poverty (especially in the
hills), and rapid deforestation and environmental degradation which
constitute major impediments to development both in the short and the
longer-term.
(d) The structure of the administrative and political system has tended
to stifle institutional development5 this in turn has limited the
country's capacity to utilize available resources (including
substantial external assistance), implement development projects and
programs, and deliver public services effectively.



- 2                                                1
2.        While some of these factors (such as topographical and locational
characteristics) are beyond its control, Nepal still has substantial scope for
improving its domestic economic management, policies and institutions to enhance
the effectivoness of its development effort. However, economic policies pursued
in the first half of the last decade were, by and large, inappropriate. Although
the Government subsequently made a sustained effort to Improve its ecoomic
policies. the development impact of these changes has been blunted by two recent
developments. First, the trade and transit treaties (TST) dispute with India had
a disruptive effect on trade, transport and economic activity in the Mg89-90
period. Second, recent political developments, although holding out the promise
for a renewed coumitment to development over the medium-term, have had some
negative short-term effects on the economy (para 9): Government concerns with
popular aspirations associated vith this process have slowed down policy reform
and exacerbated macroeconomic pressures.
3.        Accordingly, the pace of economic growth and development has been
slow.  Per capita income is currently estimated at only US$170.  The basic
transport and comanmications network In the country is rudimentary, co_mnrcial
energy consumption (19 kg of oil equivalent per head in 1968) is one of the
lowest in the world, adult literacy is only 19S, and population growth rate (12.7
per annum over the past two decades) remains high despite low life espectancy (51
years at birth) and high infant mortality rates. Agriculture accounts for over
half of GDP and nearly 901 of employment. Not surprisingly, the economy suffers
from major structural weaknesses* the domestic savings rate, averagiug about 101
of GDP in the eighties, has been low; the extremely limted export base finances
only 25-30S of imports. Nepal thus relies heavily on external assistance for
financing much of Its development activity and imports.
B. Recent coaoamic Devlonmts
4.        Nepal's early efforts at promoting economic development concentrated
mainly on building infrastructure to provide a basis for future growth. Although
some progress was made in this regard, economic growth during the 1970s barely
kept pace with population growth. During the Sixth Development Plan (1M16-85),
growing frustration with past economic performance manifested Itself In
expansionary public expenditure policies aimed at accelerating the pace of
development. This strategy helped to raise the level of investment from 16t of
GDP in FY81 to 23S In m5, while GDP growth rate averaged close to 51 over this
period. But, this strategy was based on highly expansionary policies, and In the
absence of comparable efforts to mobilize domestic savings, the Governw"Lt
resorted to exessive bank borrowing to finance Increased investment. As a
result, the budget deficit rose from 6.1? of GDP In FY81 to 12.32 in MY63 (and
over 10 In MS6)  While the current account deficit also doubled, damstic
liquidity grew by nearly SO per annum, and the Inflation rate rose to 14-161 In
the mid-eighties. Governmnt controls over pricing and preferential access of
public enterprises to bank credit tended to undenrmie their efficiency and stifle
private Initiatives, while a generally permissive attitude to using the banking
system to promot various Government objectives significantly weakened the
(largely state-owned) financ al system.
5.        Consequently, In the mid-eighties, the Government Implemented a
stabilization program, which was supported by an International Monetary Fund
(IM) standby arrangement in December 198S.  Recognizing that macroeconomic
stability by itself would not lead to accelerated growth, the Government



-3-
subsequently undertook a structural adjustment program which was supported by the
IMF and tpe World Bank to address some of the longer-tegm constraints to economic
growth.)3   The adjustment program included measures to Increase domestic
resource mobilization, reduce the growth of Govermnent expenditures and borrowing
from the banking system, improve project implementation, strengthen the financial
position of public enterprises, reform the financial sector In order to improve
monetary management and resource allocation and strengthen the weak commercial
banking sector, and liberalize industrial and trade policies to expand the traded
goods sector--all areas where significant progress in alleviating structural
constraints could be made within a medium-term framework. These measures were
complemented by sectoral policles to promote agricultural production through
increased supply and more efficient distribution of fertilizer and improved
irrigation water delivery and management, better management of forestry resources
(emphasizing greater private sector involvement in all these areas), and energy
production and conservation. Concurrently, the Government also sought to address
the longer-term constraints to growth such as rapid population growth and the low
level of human resource development.
6.        The response of the economy to the Government's structural adjustment
program was initially good. Real GDP grew by 7.82 in MS, with agriculture
rebounding by 8.12 from poor harvests in Y87. More details on macroeconomic and
balance of payments developments are provided ln Schedule S. The average annual
inflation rate fell from 132 to 112. Tighter financial policies also helped to
contain the budgetary and balance of payments deficits.  Increased economic
activity, higher imports and new revenue measures helped to raise the revenuelGDM
ratio from 9.82 in FY87 to 10.42 in FY88, while rgulat expeaditures  ere
restrained. These measures limlted domestic bank financing of the fiscal deficit
below agreed targets, while permitting higher development spending. On the
external front, commodity exports rose by 352 in dollar terms, and despite higher
imports, the external deficit was reduced below the program target of 8.82 of GDP
and foreign exchange reserves rose considerably to about US$300 million,
equivalent to five months' imports.V Progress was also made in implementing
structural reforms by reducing industrial licensing and Import licensing for raw
materials, simplifying and lowering tariffs, and improving the fertilizer pricing
and distribution system. Slippages, however, occurred In implementing financial
sector reforms and in privatizing selected public enterprises.
The program was supported by an IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
approved in March 1987, followed by a second SAC In June 1989. In
addition, an I24 Structural Adjustment Facillity (SAt) was approved for
the  88-90 period.
V    Nepal has traditionally  sasntained a reserve cover of 5-6 months of
imports, glven the country's reatlve isolation and exposure to wide
fluctuations In export earutnns.



Table 1s NEPAL-KEY INDICA?ORS, * YS7-90
FY87       PY88       FY89       FY90
Real GDP Growth - overall            3.9        7.8        2.3        2.0
- per capita        1.3        5.2        -0.3       -0.6
Government Revenues/GDP             9.8        10.4        9.8       10.6
Government Expenditures/GDP         18.0       19.5       22.2       21.3
Overall Budgetary Deficit/GDP       -8.2       -9.1      -12.4      -10.7
Gross Investment/GDP               21.8        O.5       19.5       20.0
Marginal National Savings/GDP       14.7       12.0        9.7         9.3
Exports/GDP                          5.0        5.9        5.4         5.9
Imports/GDP                        18.4        20.0       21.0       21.2
Current Account Deficit/GDP         -7.1       -8.5       -9.8      -10.7
Gross Official Reserves
(months of imports)               3.8         5.3        5.0        6.3
Domestic Inflation Rate             13.3       11.0        8.1        11.5
Sources Ministry of Finance and staff estimates.
7.        In the first eight months of FY89, economic performance continued to
be satisfactory. The economy experienced strong growvh In output coupled with
a further significant deceleration in inflation. Gcov rnment revenues continued
to increase, while Government expenditures, Governme:   orrowing from the banking
system and the overall rate of monetary expansion we- restrained. Although the
external deficit increased somewhat, international reserves continued to rise,
reflecting increased inflows of aid (to finance higher development activity) and
other capital. This momentum, however, was abruptly interrupted in March 1989
with the lapse of the trade and transit (T&?) treat4us3 with India. The T&T
impasse initially severely disrupted Nepal's external trade; it led to acute
shortages of critical imports (such as coal, petroleum products and key raw
materials) and closure of some industrial units; accelerated inflationary
pressures; and curtailed growth prospects for the economy, particularly in the
industrial, trade and construction sectors.  It also contributed to a severe
deterioration In public finances.   Declining economic activity as well as
reductions In custom duties (aimed at rationalizing tariffs on imports from third
countries and alleviating inflationary pressures) lowered Government revenues to
102 of GDP, while Government expenditures increased due in part to higher costs
of energy and construction materials. As a result, the overall budget deficit
increased sharply to over 12? of GDP and Government borrowing from banks rose
(from 0.92 of GDP In FY88) to 3.52 of GDP in FY89.  Despite the difficult
economic situation, however, the Government continued to implement its program
V   These treaties had provided duty-free transit over Indian territory for
goods traded between land-locked Nepal and third countries and between
eastern and western parts of Nepal itself, in addition to favorable
trading arrangements for Nepal's *sports to and Imports from India.



of structural reforms. With substantial cuts in the average tariff rates on
third-country imports, a significant widening of the coverage of the Open General
License schme., and increased supply of foreign exchange for the import license
auction program, the process of trade liberalization advanced more rapidly than
envisaged under the program. The Government also took steps to strengthen tax
administration by setting up a unified revenue service within the Ministry of
Finance, and in the finacial sector, to improve loan classification procedures
and capital adequacy of commercial banks.
8.        In FY90, the economic effects of the T&T impasse abated to some extent.
Following the initial disruption and shortages, the supply situation of key
imports improved; the Indian border, heavily policed during the early months of
the impasse, became more porous over time permitting informal trade between the
two countries. Secondly, agriculture was relatively unaffected by the mpasse;
and continued good weather led to bumper agricultural crops in both FY89 and
FY90. As a result, overall GDP growth reached 2.31 in FY89 and 2.01 in FY90;
this was well below the population growth rate of 2.72 per annum and the initial
program targets for FY89, but still significantly better than projected in early
1989 in the early stages of the T&T impasse. Inflation, which was expected to
be as high as 121 in FY90. moderated somewhat to about 112. The balance of
payments situation also showed unexpected improvement; after some decline in
FY89. exports in dollar terms picked up in FY90 (as did earnings from tourism),
buoyed by an upsurge of garments and carpet exports to third country markets.
Together with iacreased aid disbursements and some reflow of private capital as
the severity of the T&T impasse eased, thes* developmerts helped to increase
gross foreign exchange reserves to about US$400 million by the end of FYO),
equivalent to over six months' Imports.
9.        Nepal also had to cope with major political developments in early 1990
which have left their mark on economic performance in both FY90 and FY91. The
Democracy Movement culminated in the formation in April 1990 of an interim
Government pledged to (a) resolving the T&T impasse (accomplished in Jung 1990),
(b) formulating a new constitution to codify the transition to a constitutional
monarchy (announced in November 1990), and (c) holding fresh elections, planned
for May 1991. While these political changes hold considerable promise for social
and economlc development in the longer term, they have had some negative effects
on the fiscal situation and the structural reform process in the short term.
Popular expectations and demands (which the interim Government has not been able
to fully resist), led to a 282 pay increase for civil servants in April 1990 and
substantially larger increases in pay and allowances of employees of public
enterprises. With the objective of lowering inflation, the Government has also
continued to control prices of essential commodities and goods and services
provided by many PEa and postponed necessary price adjustments in a number of
areas (such as electricity rates).  As a result, the Government's current
expenditures (including higher subsidies) have increased significantly and the
finances of many public enterprises weakened. Although the Government, in the
face of these pressures, has endeavored to maintain fiscal and macroeconomic
stability, the budget deficit as well as bank borrowing are expected to increase
in FY91, while development spending and project implementation have suffered.
Moreover, the interim Government has been understandably reluctant to start new
initiatives for policy reform, so that effectively the adjustment process has
slowed down.
10.       In light of the modest pace of economic reform, littla progress has
been made in alleviating poverty--Nepal's principal development concern.  As



discussed in paras 28-30 below, Nepal's pervasive poverty is a complex problem,
the resolution of which will require sistained multi-dimensional efforts.
However, It is generally recognited that such efforts would have a noticestle,
impact only oer the longer term.  most of the initiAtives launched by the
Government and the donore in the past (for example through integrated rural
development progrems) have yielded indifferent results, In part due to the
fundamental constraints noted above, as well as inadequate Government commitment
and polcies, institutional weaknesses, failure to reach and organize the rural
poor and effectively deliver services to them. Moreover, up to now, Nepal has
not had a strong population program.  Although the Government anounced an
ambitious Basic Needs Program In Y8?, it did not get off the ground, in part
because it failed to take account of resource availabilitiess meanwhile, as noted
above, the disruptions caused by the T&T impasse and subsequent domestic
political changes probably contributed to a decline in per capita lncomes and
some deterioration of the poverty situation.
11.       In summay, the results of the etabilization and reform efforts
undertaken in the second half of the eighties have been mixed. The major fiscal
and external imbalances which emerged in the mid-eighties were brought under a
measure of control. There was also initially some improvement in Government
revenues, development spending and aid utilization; and some progrses was also
made in reducing  0overnment control over credit allocation,  mproving the
regulatory framework of financial Institutions, Increasing financial instruments
for strengthening monetary and debt management, and improving the trade and
foreign exchange allocation system. The SACs thus had a promising impact on
economic policies, which now need reinforcing. Despite these improvements,
however, much remains to be done. The economy's structural weaknesses still
persist, and poverty remains widespread.  The pace of eca >mic growth and
development needs to be significantly improved,
C. The Policy Fralework
12.       The Government's reform program (supported by the 1W  and the Bank in
the context of a three-year SAY program) for the FYS8-90 period was concluded
last year. In view of its caretaker role, the interim Government has refrained
from entering into new policy coumitments which would bind the hands of an
incomlng Government.  Accordingly, a new program under the IW  * Enbanced
Structural Adjustment Facility is expected to be discussed in July, by which time
a newly elected Government is expected to be in place. Nevertheless, there is
broad agreement, based on recent Government policies and approaches to structural
reform and development experience in Nepal, on the principal development issues
facing the country and the key elements which should be included In a policy
agenda to address these issues.
13.       There is little doubt that Nepal's principal long-term development
problems remain the alleviation of widespread poverty and the careful husbandry
of its meager natural resources. Nearly half the population (both In the hills
and the Terai) is currently below the poverty line; with limited cultivable land
and continued high population growth, it is likely that unemployment would
increase and the poverty situation would get worse, even with rapid economLc
growth. However, In the face of the fundamental constraints noted earlier, the
attainment of growth rates In excess of 3-42 per anum on average over a
sustained period is a major challenge. Thus. Papal cannot rely on a high growth-
led strategy to solve its poverty and employment problems. A more balanced and



Integrated approach, combining efforts to stimulate economIc growth with human
resOurce development, (emphasizing restraints on population growth, as tll as
training and upgrading human capital through Improved provision of education,
health facilities and other services) is therefore essential to ensure
sustainable development in the longer term. Concurrently, attention needs to be
given to better management of Nepal's fragile ecological base and to Improving
the institutional capacity (which has been a major stuwbling block to Nepal's
dovelopment efforts so far) for maneging resources and the economic reform
process. A more detailed discussion of these issues is provided in
paras 28-30.
14.       It is also recoganzed that there is no easy solution to Nepal"s
development challenge.  Agriculture (which presently provides half of ODP and
employs nearly 90Z of the labor force), has limited potential given the scarcity
of arable land.  While there is some scope for irrigation and productivity
improvements in non-irrigated areas in the Terai, agriculture alone cannot be
expected to generate sufficient incomes and productive employment for the
Incremental labor force. The industrial sector (which is presently quite small,
contributing about 6Z of GDP) also is unlikely to be a catalyst for growth In the
near to medium term. Thus, a large proportion of the new entrants to the labor
force is likely to be thrown into services and self employment activities, with
probably declining productivity and marginal incomes. Nepal, therefore, would
have to explore and exploit all possible opportunities for income and employment
generation in every sector, taking better advantage of its main asset--human
capital--which, however, requires considerable training and skill development.
For example, there is potential for expanding labor-intensive exports to third-
country markets (bullding au the recent success of ready-made garments and
carpets); there is also scope for taking better advantage of Nepal's proximity
to India by identifying and developing particular niches in the latter's vast
market for evoorts of selected Nepalese industrial as well as agricultural
products. Nepal also needs to develop and exploit her main natural resources--
hydropower (for which India is likely to be a large market) and the potential for
tourism.
15.       This growth, however, has to take place in a somewhat more difficult
environment, at least in the near term:
(a)   Over the iumediate future, there is considerable uncertainty about
the nature and effectiveness of the new Government (which will
emerge after the elections), and its ability to cope with populist
demands and pressures.
(b) Thbi in turn will critically impact on the fiscal situation (which
Is under some considerable pressure at present) and the ability of
the Government to effectively implement the necessary policies and
programs.
(c)   Nepal's weak  institutional  capacity continues  to be a major
impediment; unless a breakthrough could be achieved in this area,
there is little hope that the pace of development could be
accelerated in the near future.
(d) Political perceptions in Nepal and willingness to enter into closer
economic ties wLth India is a critical issue. Up to now, large-
scale hydroelectric power resource development has been hindered by



8-
a lack of agreement with India on how to proceed. Given the large
potential benefits to both countries and the improved relations
between the Governments, it is now importaut to pursue equitable
Lnderstandings on water resource development.
16.       Apart from the resolution of these uncertainties, the successful
implementation of the development strategy would require the adoption of
appropriate policies and programs by the Government over a broad front. While
the necessary sectoral policies and programs are outlined in Section D, the key
requirements at the macro level includes a stable macro-economic environment
combined with further progress in policy reform in key areas; significantly
improved public resource managements reform of the liefficient public enterprise
sector and creating an enabling environment for the private sector.
acroeconomic Manaaement and Policies
17.       The establishment of macroeconomic stability and revitalizing the
economic reform process is a necessary initial requirement for accelerating
growth and development. The fiscal deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system will need to be reduced and prudent monetary policies pursued in
order to protect the balance of payments and moderate inflation.V   This in
turn should permit the Government to turn its attention to improving public
resource management (para 19) in order to mobilize and reallocate resources more
efficiently. Concurrently, within the limits imposed by economic relationships
with India, efforts would need to be made to strengthen financial, trade and
industrial and exchange rate policies to improve resource allocation and
competitiveness and encourage private Initiatives. In the financial sector.
important issues on the reform agenda remain. The early implementation of the
recommendations of the UNDP-financed Commercial Banks' Problem Analysis and
Strategy Study to recapitalize and restructure the two Govermnent-owned banks
(which dominate the banking system), together with efforts to improve their
management and operational procedures are necessary to make these institutions
viable.   More  det^rmlned efforts  are also needed  to  facilitate market
determination of interest rates, reduce directed lending, develop and expand
market instruments and widen the secondary market for such instruments in order
to assist the Central Bank's transition to indirect (rather than direct) means
of monetary control, and help foster greater competition in, and efficiency of,
the financial system.
18.       To invigorate the export sector and to achieve higher growth, greater
liberalization and rationalization of the trade regime within the limits of the
trade and transit treaties with India is also essential. Incentives are still
high for smwugling and import substituting activities, and export profitability
remains low, in large part due to price distortions created by the trade regime.
The number of tariff rates is still large, and the relatively large dispersion
of tariffs within similar categories of goods provides scope for progress towards
unifying effective tariff and protection rates. Many of the elements of the 1987
Industrial Enterprises Act, which aimed at simplifying and rationalizing the
tariff structure, have yet to be implemented. Moreover, tax concessions to
import substituting industries have been creeping back again, Initially under the
2/ This is particularly important because fiscal policy is the primary
instrument for regulating aaareRato  demand and controlling Inflation
in Nepal.



guise of the Basic Needs Program and later through the PY91 budget which
increased the disperpion of tariff rates and introduced new specific tariff
rates. The foreign exchange auction system could be improved and expanded by
eliminating product-specific import limits and by including Open General License
items also in the auction system. Progress also needs to be made in simplifying
export/import document procedures, which are still excessively complicated and
dilatory.  Finally, Nepal needs to monitor its exchange rate closely (while
pursuing prudent fiscal and monetary policies) in order to improve external
competitiveness.
Public Resource Management
19.       Better management of resources--natural, human and financial--holds the
key to improving Nepal'3 development performance. While environmental and human
resource development issues and weaknesses in public administration (which are
a root cause of these problems) are discussed in paras 28-36 below, there are
many areas where financial resource management by the public sector could be
improved significantly. Nepal would need to increase both its investment levels
and, even more importantly, its efficiency of resource use in order to carry out
a more balanced development strategy.  This in turn would depend on greater
success than achieved up to now in mobilizing more domestic resources and
developing better mechanisms for planning, allocation and utilization of
available (domestic and external) resources.
20.       On the revenue side, in order to broaden the tax base and increase tax
elasticity, it is essential to upgrade property and income taxes.  In this
context, the array of exemptions from income, sales and excise taxes currently
provided to industrialists should be reviewed and reduced.   There is also
considerab-. roam for increased cost recovery from users of publicly provided
goods and services through appropriate adjustments in prices and tariffs. This
in turn would enable public enterprises to meet their debt service obligations
and dividend payments to the Government and increase non-tax revenues.
21.       On the expenditure side, there is a need for greater realism in
planning, allocating and i,ilementing the expenditure program. A more balanced
development strategy emphasizing better development and management of human and
natural resources would require higher recurrent, as well as operations and
maintenance, expenditures in many areas than has been provided up to now. To
make resources available for these as well as for development projects, other
current expenditures will have to be cut back. Towards this end, the Government
will need to restrain publlc sector wages and benefits and emloyment which have
increased significantly in the past two years, as well as reduce domestic
borrowing in order to restrain the growth of the debt service. Nevertheless,
there vill still be an urgent need to reexamine the development budget and
reallocate resources to higher priority projects. The development program is
heavily overcomaitted in relation to the Government's financial, administrative
and managerial capacity; and many projects, although largely externally funded,
are starved of funds, in part due to questionable Government procedures and
because most of the limited local currency resources are earmrked for purely
locally funded projects, some of which at least cannot be considered high
priority.   Other steps which would be helpful in this regard include the
establishment of a realistic resource envelope, defining and mplementing a core
program, and defining the appropriate roles for the National Planning Commission,
Finance and line Ministries in this process. There is also need for improving
fund release procedures, and for evolving mechanisms for better monitoring of



- 10 -
expenditures and for ensuring greater accountability in the use of public funds
by implementing agencies
Public ERterprise Refonm
22.       Poor performance of public enterprises (PE) remains a serious problem.
draining budgetary resources and undermining potential for efficient industrial
growth and sustainable employment generation. Restrictive policies and poor
investment choices and decision-making further contribute to PE inefficiency.
In addition, interventionist policies concerning PE output, pricing and access
to inputs and controls on employment and compensation, make it impossible for the
PEs to operate on basic commercial principles. The generally low auditing and
accounting standards exacerbate the problem, resulting in weak internal financial
control.
23.       Recognizing these problems, the Government has limited PE capacity
expansion and endeavored to improve their efficiency by stressi-g a more market-
based approach, reducing bureaucratic controls, reforming the system of
Government credit guarantees, and initiating a program of selling-off socue Pgs
to the private sector. However, for a variety of reasons, these reforms were not
implemented as envisaged. Moreover, there has been some backtracking recently
as the Government, under pressure from heightened popular expectations,
controlled prices of key commodities and acceded to demands for large increases
in emoluments of PE staff, with potentially serious consequences for PBs'
financial viability.
24.       A renewed action program for PE reforms is needed taking a more
flexible approach to address the concerns of constituencies that have resisted
previous reform efforts. PE managers should have clear performance objectives
and operational authority over the use of resources, including the hiring and
firing of personnel within broad guidelines and should be held accountable for
performance.   In this context,  efforts to restrain the rapid growth of
compensation and reduce excess labor (particularly temporary/casual labor wich
has increased significantly in many PEs in recent years) are essential. However,
to overcome labor resistance, PE restructuring should include measures for
compensating affected employees.  Flexibility In pricing policy is another
requirement for financial success of PEs, especially in the short-term. Among
the regulated monopolies, it is important that prices approximate the long-run
marginal cost of producing a unit of output. This would mply substantial
increases in water and electricity tariffs; price adjustments are also needed in
a number of other areas such as cement, sugar, diesel and kerosene. Efforts
should also be initiated to privatize selected PEs. To facilitate this process,
a number of options, such as sales of shares to the public and/or to employees
and managers, leasing and management contracts and sales of assets of such
enterprises should be explored.
Role of the Private Sector
25.       An essential ingredient in Nepal's search for a sustainable Jevelopment
strategy would lie in renewed commitment to harnessing the energies of the
Nepalese private sector in the task of development. Under the SACISAP programs,
the Government has tried to foster a greater role for the private sector in the
distribution of fertilizer and reaffirmed a commitment to privatize select PEs.
In addition, it took explicit measures to involve user groups in public
irrigation schemes and in the forestry subsector. However, progress achieved to



- 11 -
date, though encouraging in some areas, has been slow, in part due to the
perceived absence of a strong indigenous industrial and business community, and
more importantly, the continuation of prevailing attitudes and interventionist
policies.
26.       To encourage greater private participation, initiatives need to be
taken over a broad front. The creation of a more attractive economic policy
framework is an important requirement for encouraging more efficient, and hence
sustainable, private investment. Deregulation of industrial licensing, relaxing
Government controls over pricing, as well as reducing the dominant role of PEs
in the economy are important steps in this regard. There is also scope and need
for involving the beneficiaries in the design and implementation of broad range
of local development activities--for example, in irrigation, forestry, rural
infrastructure, and especially in mobilizing participation and resources for
operation and maintenance of publicly created assets. The Government has also
recently initiated studies for (a) identifying appropriate roles for the private
sector in the importation and distribution of fertilizer and alternate ways of
administering fertilizer subsidies; (b) contracting out the responsibility for
urban water meter reading and repair, billing and collection; (c) planning the
privatizatLon of the National Transport Corporation's trucking and ropeway
operations and encouraging the greater use of local contractors in public
construction projects; and (d) considering an increased role for private
consultants to supplement the Irrigation Department's limited capacity to
implement the irrigation sector program. The opportunities for greater private
sector involvement in these areas should be pursued with vigor. Finally, the
transition to a democratic political system provides an opportunity for Nepal to
develop and strengthen local level organizations and to gradually decentralize
over time the excessively control-oriented administrative system.
D. Sectoral Policies and Programs
27.       Any attempt to come to grips with Nepal's formidable obstacles to
development (para 1) must take account of sectoral issues. More than in most
countries, sectoral problems--including rapid population growth, low agricultural
productivity, environmental degradation, and Inadequate human resource
development--have contributed to Nepal's disappointing development performance.
While sound macroeconomic management is a prerequisite In Nepal as it is in all
countries, major sectoral reforms will be needed to interrupt the cycle of
poverty and achieve self-sustaining development.
28.       Population, Poverty, and the Environment. Nepal's population growth
averaging 2 72 per ann-u has eroded the limited gains that have been made in GDP
and agricultural output.   Population pressure has caused cultivation of
increasingly marginal lands, resulting in stagnating average foodgrain yields.
It has also increased the demand for forest resources for fuel, fodder, and
timber, leading to a rapid loss of forest cover and soil erosion. Moreover, by
straining the institutional and financial capacity of the Government to deliver
public services, high population growth has impeded efforts to inerease access
to education and other social services. As a result, Nepal's indicators for
literacy, infant mortality, and Incidence of disease are amongst the worst in the
world. And the condition of women is well below that of men.
29.       The  Inextricable  link  between  population  growth, poverty,  and
environmental degradation in Nepal suggests that efforts to reduce poverty and
preserve natural resources must start with a more effecti%e attack on population



- 12 -
growth. In contrast to most other Asian countries, Nepal has never had a strong
population campaign backed by the highest levels of Government. The current
population prugram is extremely weak and relies too heavily on sterilization.
There is a need for a massive effort to reach couples of reproductive age with
information and services and to offer them a variety of temporary contraceptive
methods,  supported by follow-up services and motivational efforts.   The
Government also needs to reallocate its limited resources to give higher priority
to expanded education for girls and rural health services.
30.       A concerted effort to limit population growth is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for the reduction of poverty.   Nearly half Nepal's
inhabitants live in absolute poverty. Since there is little scope for income
redistribution, solutions to the poverty problem must be found in sustainable
growth which creates employment for the poor without damaging the country's
natural resources. While Nepal does not operate the large-scale subsidy and
transfer programs found in many developing countries, there are a number of
poverty alleviation programs, most of which have had very little success.
Subsidies on food distribution, fertilizer, and interest rates account for most
of the expenditure under these programs; but these are not well targeted and
place an increasing burden on the Government budgoet. Although isolated small
development and credit projects--often managed by non-governmental organiza-
tions--have had some success in reaching the poor, they are generally costly,
require heavy supervision, and would not be replicable on a large scale. While
there is scope for improving the focus of these programs, the major impact on
alleviating poverty is likely to stem from a more effective population program,
and country-wide policy reforms to promote broad-based growth and development.
In particular, measures such as promotion of user groups, development and
dissemination of appropriate technical packages for hill agriculture, and
investments in health, education, and--on a selective basis--in rural physical
infrastructure are likely to have a especially beneficial effect on the poor.
If properly designed, these efforts are also likely to be the most cost effective
approaches to preservation of the environment.
31.       Agriculture.  Although the Government and foreign donors have given
priority to agriculture in recent years, their results in raising Incomes and
productivity have been disappointing. For the most part, Nepal has failed to
benefit from the new technologies which have revolutionized foodgrain production
in other parts of Asia. Reasons for the poor performance of agriculture Include
lack of reliable water supply even on irrlgated land; unreliable fertilizer
supplies and poor management of the state-owned distribution agencyl weak
agricultural research and extension services; and a sparse and ill-maintained
road system. In addition, the land tenure system provides disincentives to
maximizing output.
32.       Under the structural adjustment program, the Government has taken
measures to increase the availability uf fertilizer--including encouragement of
private retail distribution, improvements in the operation of the public
enterprise which imports and distributes fertilizer, and implementation of a
pricing policy which discouzages smuggling by ensuring that the retail fertilizer
price does not drop below the Indian border price. The Government has also taken
preliminary steps to involve farmer user groups In the design, implementation,
and operation of public irrigation schemes. These efforts need to be sustained
and supplemented by additional reforms.  First, the new Government needs to
assure continued commltment to the comunity forestry program which is of prime
importance not only for raising incomes in the hills, but also for preserving



- 13 -
Nepal's environment. Second, analytical work to formulate reforms in land
tenancy and remove existing disincentives to the effectlve use of tenants, and
political commitment to the Implementation of necessary reforms are needed.
Third, agricultural research should be made more responsive to farmer needs and
should make greater use of more successful applications in ndia and elsewhere.
Finally, to Increase the Incentives for banks to lend to small farmers, banks
should be permitted to charge market-determined interest rates and assistance
should be given to farmers to organize In groups to provide guarantees.
33.       Manufacturins. Trade, and Water Resources. Vhile manufacturing grew
rapidly in the eighties, its share in GDP remain  about five percent and its
share of employment is even loer. The industrial sector is characterized by
high import protection and extensive regulation which inhibit productive economic
activity and encourage rent-seeking and trading. While some of these controls
are governed by Nepal's economlc relationship with India, Nepal could still
ben fit from- substantial liberalization within this framework.   Although
industrial and trade policies were liberalized to some exteant under the
structural adjustment program, these efforts have been undermined by decisions
over the last year to introduce new tax concessions and Increase the dispersion
of tariffs. Potentially far more damging to the development of a competitive
Industrial sector has been the recent Government attitude toward labor. By
acquiescing to demands from public sector employees for large wage increases
which have also spilled over to the private sector, the Government has weakened
Nepal's export competitiveness even in subsectors, such as garments and carpets.
The Government will need to stand firm on labor issues to enable Nepal to
Increase productivity and generate employment outside the traditional economy.
34.       Although Nepal's close relationship with India has created some
obstacles to efficient manufacturing growth, its proximity to India also offers
opportunities for export, particularly of hydrolower. Revenue from power exports
could help alleviate Nepal's chronic balance of payments deficit and generate
resources for the budget. In addition, water resource development would provide
irrigation benefits which would enable Nepal to increase food production. To
date, such development has been blocked by the absence of agreemnt with India
on how to proceed. Given the potential benefits to both countries and the
lmproved relations between the governments, the Government should give high
priority to the achievement of an equitable understanding with India oan water
resource development. Given the relatively large capital costs of hydropower
projects, the Government will also need to review Its investment program and
establish priorities so as to provide the necessary funding for other high
priority expenditure programs and projects (para 21).
35.       Public Administration. A continuing impediment to Nepal's development
effort to dat. has been weak project implementation and the poor quality of
Government services at all Levels. These public sector Institutional problems
have been well documented: they include a poorly motivated civil servicel
excessive centralization and overstaffing at the central level, combined with
inadequately trained and supervised local staff; archic administrative
procedures; and inadequate recurrent financing. Available local currency is
spent mainly on administrative overheads, especilly salaries, rather than on
development activity. The recent pay increases have exacerbated the problem by
providing disproportionate increases to those whose pay already exceeds the
market wage, at the expense of technical and managerial personnel--who are thus
tempted to leave Government service or seek supplementary outside remuneration.



- 14 -
These policies have preempted resources from operations and maintenance of
Nepal's physical infrastructure which, although relatively new and limited in
scope, has deteriorated rapidly.
36.       The recomended reforms in public administration are not new.  These
include restructuring of civil service pay and incentives, especially for field
services retrenchment of superfluous staff (in Government service, as well as In
public enterprises)s procedural simplification; delegation of authority to user
groups; simplified local planning proceduress increased local revenue
mobilization; greater public accountability; and redefinition of the role of
Government in service provision to improve cost recovery and take Into account
the comparative advantage of the private sector and non-governmental
organizations. While previous Governments have lnstituted partial or superficial
measures to respond to these recommendations, a number of social and political
factors have prevented genuine attempts at reform. The advent of a more open
political system, however, could provide an opportunity to experiment with a more
participatory approach to development which most observers consider a
prerequisite for success In Nepal. In addition, courageous leadership on the
part of the new Government will be required to implement the necessary civil
service reforms and increasingly delegate power to local bodies.
B. IDA's Assistance to enaal
37.       Bank Groun Operations. IDA fielded its first economic mission to Nepal
in 1963 and the first IA credit was approved In 1969. The relationship of more
than 25 years has, with few exceptions, grown increasingly close. IDA's role In
preparing periodic economic reports and in organizing and chairing the Aid Group
for Nepal has provided the basis for a regular dlalogue. This advisory role
became particularly close when the Government sought the assistance of the IMF
and IDA in FY86 in support of a structural adjustment program--which was
subsequently supported with two IDA credits approved in FY87 and FY89. The
interim Government which assumed power in April 1990 has continued to work
closely with the Bank Group as demonstrated by the cooperative effort which led
to a successful Aid Group meeting in Paris in October 1990.ir
38.       IDA has approved a total of 56 credits for Nepal, totalling (net of
cancellations) US$1,029.8 mlllion (Table 2 below). Five sectors account for
about 781 of IDA credits by amounts agriculture and irrigation; water supply and
sewerage; power and energy; telecommunications; and highways. Agriculture and
irrigation have accounted for 391 of the amount and 431 of the number of credits.
Since most of the aid from bilateral donors is on grant terms, IDA's share of
Nepal's total external debt is about 452 as compared to about 271 for the Asian
Development Dank and 31 for the IMP. However, IDA's share of Nepal's debt
service (which lcludes payments on a commercial purchase of an aircraft and IKV
charges) is only about 121. IDA disbursements were US$95.1 million in FY88,
US$75.7 million In FY89. and US$98.5 million i  FY90.   IPC has made two
investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of the
Soaltee Hotel project in Kathmandu and the second In FY82 (OK 14.5 million) to
the Nepal Orind Kagnesite Company for mining and production of dead burnt
magnesite. No IBID loans have been made to Nepal and MIGA has not conducted any
operations in Nepal.
I, See para 5 and Aide Group Meeting report No. NP91-1.



q 15 -
Table is ID ASSISTANCS T0 UEPAL, MO-90
(In US $ Million)
Commitments               Operations
Amount      Sector         Number    Sector
$ Million    Share I                  Share 2
Agriculture                  162.90       15.39            13       23.21
Irrigation                   247.50      23.38             11       19.64
Industry                      28.00       2.65              4        7.14
Power/Energy                 200.80       18.97             S        8.94
Education                     66.98        6.33             S        8.94
Telecommunications            43.78        4.14             4        7.14
Transport                     82.51        7.80             4        7.14
Urban/Water                   88.30        8.34             4        7.14
Structural Adj. Credits      110.00       10.39             2        3.57
Technical Assistance & Other  27.60        2.61             4        7.14
Total                      1 058 373j   100.00             56      100.00
a/ US$1029.8 million net of cancellations.
39.       Proiect Implementation.   Utilization of ID  assistance has been
constrained historically by Nepal's limited absorptive capacity. The overriding
constraint  is  the  institutional  one  (par&  35).    Weaknesses  in  public
administration both contribute to and are affected by shortfalls in counterpart
funding, protracted procurement, delays in release of funds, inadequate cost
recovery on public services, and unreliable supplies of raw materials. These
perennial problems were exacerbated by the trade and transit dlspute of 1989-90
which caused shortages and delays in obtaining fuel and other essential
commodities. In addition, the political transition has caused delays In decision
making on procurement and release of funds, while the fiscal problems noted above
have caused the Government to reduce funding for a nuimber of IDA projects.  The
result has been a deterioration of the portfolio so that as on January 1, 1991
one-third of the 30 projects financed by IDA were rated as problem projects by
the supervision amssions. Over the longer term, there are also serious doubts
about the sustainbility of development investments in Nepal in view of the low
level of cost recovery and inadequate operations and maintenance.
40.       Economic/Sector Work and Investment Priorities.  Historically, IDA's
assistance strategy focused on infrastructure development (primarily hydropower,
highways, and irrigation), agriculture, and forestry, with some  involvement in
industry and education. This strategy reflected the need for basic economic
infrastructure in a country virtually unexposed to modern development until the
mid-1950s, the dependence of the economy on agriculture. and the scarcity of
human resources at all levels.   These priorities continue, but particular
emphasis should be now given to overcoming the institutional mpediments to
development. More attention is also given to devising ways to reach the poorer



- 16 _
half of the population whose number is growing while the limited resource base
remains fixed and threatened with increasing envlronmental degradation. The
proposed Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project, which aims at
rehabilitating and upgrading water supply and sanitation services in townships
in and outside the Kathmandu valley and strengthening institutions and management
in the sector, supports these broad objectives.
41.       Almost all IDA operations, as well as economic and seetor work, are
designed to address, either directly or indirectly, the primary goal of poverty
alleviation. A recently completed two volume IDS report "Nepali Relieving
Poverty in a Resource-Scarce Economyf"'  reconmended a strategy to expand
employment and income generating activities and alleviate poverty through: (a)
a more effective population program; (b) improved minor irrigation and better
technical support for agriculture; (c) cost-effective road and trail building to
improve rural access; td) expanded basic education; and (e) rationalization of
transfer programs to reach the target beneficiaries. IDA's lending and economic
and sector work is intended to assist in implementation of this strategy.
42.       In addition,  IDA will  support  the development  of considerable
hydropower resources which represent Nepal's greatest potential source of revenue
with which to finance future development investments. Under IDA's leadership,
a dozen donors have supported for a number of years the Government's efforts to
prepare the Arun III hydropower project. Given the size of this proposed project
(402 MW, for which the first phase of 268 MW would cost almost US$1 billion) In
comparison to Nepal's economy, special care is being given to analysis of such
factors as affordability, macroeconomic impact, environmental impact, and the
implementation capaclty of the project management entity. IDA and the other
donors wish to be fully confident that these concerns bave been addressed and
satisfied before funding is approved. An earlier project planned for Board
presentation in FY92 would increase the efficiency of the power sector and would,
inter alia, help to strengthen the capability of the electricity authority.
43.       Of the nine operations tentatively planned for PY92-94, two will be in
human resource development, ote in basic education and one in population and
health. Such projects are difficult to implement in Nepal because of the weak
institutional capacity, especially in the rural areas. Extra time and resources
are being devoted to preparation in an attempt to (a) learn from previous donor-
funded projects and (b) ensure full Government coiditment. In both cases, IDA
is working closely with other donors and non-governmental organizations; and in
each case the objective will be to channel multi-donor support to a single
Government program rather than continue to finance diverse projects. The three
proposed projects in the agriculture sector are designed to address the needs of
farmers by iuvolving them more in all stages of these projects. Participation
of local groups in project planning and management is viewed as essential to
improve tn. quality of operations and maintenance and, ultimately, to achieve
sustainable development. In addition, it is seen as the key to preservation of
the environment.
44.       In contrast to more developed countries where environmental problems
are caused by too much development, Nepal's environmental degradation is a
consequence of poverty caused by population pressures on limited natural
resources. Consequently, efforts to preserve the environment must Involve limits
1 Report No. 8635-NEP



- 17 -
on population growth and the more efficient use of the country's resources.
Viewed in this way, IDA's entire strategy for Nepal can be seen to address the
environment. In particular, recently approved and planned projects in population
and health, education, agriculture, irrigation, forestry, and hydropower are all
designed to realign this fundamental relationship between the Nepalese people and
their environment.  This broad strategy will be supplemented by a number of
specific environmental project components including watershed management,
industrial pollution standards, and drinking water purity.
45.       More efficient use of public expenditures is a prerequisite for more
rapid development in Nepal. The budget must be streamlined to ensure that scarce
Government resources support activities which enable the private sector to make
a maximum contribution to growth and employment generation. In addition, budget
priorities must be reoriented to serve the poverty alleviation strategy described
above. Ongoing economic work focuses on these issues; and they are expected to
be the focus of the next IDA policy-based operation for Nepal.
46.       Experience over the last two decades in Nepal suggests that Government
i"volvement often inhibits rather than fosters development. The presence of
Government in the management of forests and irrigation facilities has led to
deterioration and waste. When the Government is viewed as the provider of loans,
they are often not repaids and Government-subsidized goods are often smuggled to
India. With these lessons in mind, IDA's strategy emphasizes reliance on the
private sector. Efforts to shift from public to private sector the distribution
and management of fertilizer and irrigation water were central to the SAC
reforms. Further progress of such reforms is being reinforced through projects
in irrigation and forestry. Besides providing credit to the private sector, the
proposed Financial Institutions Development Project will follow up on the
financial sector reforms initiated under SAC by promoting increased competition
from private banks.   In addition, planned sector work will explore the
possibility for greater reliance on the private sector for delivery of services
at the local level. Following the recent completion of a study of Nepal's Lublic
enterprises, IDA also plans to explore possible assistance to rationalize the
sector and reduce the growing burden inefficient state-owned corporations place
on the Government budget. Where possible, IPC will assist the Government in
privatizing selected public enterprises.  In addition, IPC is exploring new
investment projects in tourism and other sectors.
47.       Planned Lending Level and Composition of Assistance.  IDA plans to
commit about US$650 million for some fifteen operations for Nepal in FY91-95.
The actual amount of new lending each year will depend on IDA availabilities, as
well as on country macro-economic and project performance. Particular attention
will be paid to absorptive capacity as discussed in para 39 and to the impact of
the new GoveroAunt's policies on the poor. If the Arun III Hydropower project
is ready for approval during this period, IDA's share of support for this multi-
donor project will require above normal lending the year it is approved.
Depending on the new Government's commitment to further reforms under the
structural adjustment program, as well as the balance of payments need, IDA would
consider a policy-based credit to support reforms in public resource management
(para 45).  Investment credits will give added attention to the social sectors,
in addition to the traditional emphasis on agriculture and infrastructure.
48.       Coordination with the IMP.  IDA and the DIN  have worked closely in
Nepal since the chmmencement of the Government's structural adjustment program
in 1985. This program was supported by an 'M? stand-by arrangement, followed by



- 18 -
an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement and two IDA Structural
Adjustment Credits. A third Policy Framework Paper prepared by the Government,
with the joint assistance of the Fund and IDA, was discussed by the ID Executive
Directors on November 7, 1989.! IDA has also worked closely with the Pund on
financial sector issues and on the recent study of public enterprises (para 46).
In addition, IDA and IDF staff have participated in each other's missions on a
number of occasions.
49.       Aid Coordination.  The aid community has given generous support to
Nepal for many years. The donors have, however, expressed concern in recent
years about weak project implementation and tne lack of sustainable development
results. At the October 1990 Aid Group meeting in Paris, a number of donors
expressed hope that the recent political developments and emerging democratic
framework might provide an opportunity for more broad-based development. With
this situation in mind, the donors pledged a total of US$1 billion equivalent for
the two-year period, FY91-92.  The donors represent a large segment of the
International community, led by IDA, the Asian Development Bank, and Japan.
Coordination among the donors has improved in recent years, assisted by regular
meetings of the Local Aid Group--co-chaired by the World Bank's Resident
Representative and the UNDP Resident Representative. While the World Sank-
chaired meeting in Paris enables the Government to discuss the broad thrust of
Its policies with the donor community and mobilize support, the local group
permits more informal coordination of sectoral issues and investment activities.
F. EXternal FIlancina Requirements
50.       Nepal should be able to achieve an economic growth rate on the order
of 3.5-4.5 per annum over the medium term, provided that the forthcoming
elections (scheduled for mid-May) would lead to the formation of a stable
government which is committed to the task of accelerating growth and
development.Yv   To support such  growth and particularly  to finance  the
necessary investment levels, Nepal would need to rely on substantial increases
in external assistance. Even with an improvement in the Government revenue/GDP
ratio and domestic savings, Nepal would still face a savingslinvestment gap on
the order of 8-92 of GDP, and an overall fiscal deficit of about the same
magnitude, over the next few years. This domestic financing gap is also very
closely mirrored in its external payments. Given the structural weakness in its
balance of payments, exports need to grow twice as rapidly as imports to prevent
the external deficit from widening. Thus, even though Nepal's exports of goods
and non-factor services, In nominal dollar terms, are expected to rise by about
V/ Secl8g-1315
V While the international environment casts some shadows on growth
prospects of developing countries in the near term, the direct impact
of developments in the Gulf on Nepal is unlikely to be iglificant.
This is because, Nepal's oil import bill is not particularly large, and
its dependence on the Gulf region for export earnings and workers'
remittances is relatively smll. compared to that of most South Asian
countries. However, Nepal' tourism earnings in the current fiscal
year may be affected by th- walf war, as there are signs of a
substantial decline in toutrst arrivals.



- 19 -
141 per annum, and imports are expected to rise by only 7S in nominal dollar
terms, the external current account deficit is expected to remain around 8$ of
GDP over the next few years. This would mean that, allowing for a modest decline
in foreign exchange reserves in terms of imports coverage (from about seven
months of imports in FY90 to about 5.5 months by FY93), gross external financing
requirements would average US$300-330 million a year over the next few years.
51.      Nepal has a substantial accumulated project aid pipeline of about US$1.4
billion; and a significant part (over half) of the required disbursements is
expected to come  from the existing pipeline.   Improved public  resource
management, as envisaged in the development strategy, could help improve project
implementation and facilitate increased disbursements from the existing aid
pipeline. The balance of the required disbursements would need to come from new
commitments, including modest amounts of quick-disbursing assistance, mainly from
the Asian Development Bank, IDA, and to a lesser extent, bilateral donors. The
IMF presently does not have a program with Nepal; however, the possibility an
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility is expected to be discussed in July which
could provide significant balance of payments support over the next three years.
(para. 12).
52.       Nepal's outstanding medium- and long-term external debt is expected to
increase from an estimated US$1.6 billion at the end of FY90 to about
US$1.9 billion by end FY93. Relative to GDP, external debt would remain at about
532. Because most loans carry highly concessional terms, the debt service ratio
is also projected to remain modest at about 10 of current export receipts. This
debt burden appears to be quite manageable.
0. Summary Assessment
53.       Nepal, with its meager resource endowment and topographical and
locational constraints, faces a uniquely difficult development challenge. Reform
efforts in recent years, though helping to achieve a measure of macroeconomic
stability and improve domestic policies in key areas, have had little impact in
stimulating economic growth, or ameliorating the structural weaknesses of the
economy. Thus, alleviation of widespread poverty and breaching the cycle of
increaslg population pressure, denudation of the limited resource base and
environmental degradation remain the principal development goals. However, given
the limited potential of key sectors of the economy, Nepal cannot rely on
sustained high rates of economic growth to solve its poverty and employment
problems. While accelerating economic growth is still important, a more broad-
based and comprehensive development strategy emphasizing greater attention to
human resource development and better management of natural aud financial
resources is essntial.
54.       To sustain economic growth and generate employment opportunities, Nepal
needs to explore possible opportunities in every sector, including exports to
third countries and (taking better advantage of its proximlty) to India,
especially hydroelectric power, and the potential for tourism. The establishment
of macroeconomic stability and revitalizing the economic reform process,
particularly in the areas of sound public resource management, Improving and
strengthening institutions and policies in the financial sector, increasing the
efficiency of public enterprises and involving the private sector more actively
in the task of development are vital in this regard. Within the context of its
economic relationship with India, Nepal also needs to reform its trade and



- 20 -
industrial  policies  to  improve  resource  allocation and  growth potential
(especially for exports) and to monitor its exchange rate policies in order to
maintain its external competitiveness.  As important as these macroeconomic
policies are, improvements in major sectoral policies are equally critical to
improving development performance in Nepal. Given the complex interlinkages
between rapid population growth, declining agricultural productivity in the
hills, inadequate human resource development and environmental degradation, a
frontal attack on Nepal's development problem must begin with a much greater
Government conmitment to curbing population growth. There Is also need for
increasing access of the poor (who account for virtually half of the population)
to education, other social services and basic infrastructure. In agriculture,
industry, irrigation, as well as foresty, there is a critical need to involve the
beneficiaries in the design and implementation of projects, in the delivery of
inputs and services and especially in mobilizing and in managing resources for
the operation and maintenance of assets. Above all, there is a pressing need to
improve institutional and absorptive capcity, which has frustrated Nepal's
development efforts all along, by improving the quality and motivation of the
public administration. While the advent of a democratic political system holds
out considerable promise for improvemeuts in these difficult areas. how
successful Nepal will be in launching new initiatives to accelerate the pace of
development will depend on the nature and effectiveness of the new Government
which will emerge from the forthcoming elections.
55.       IDA's  country  assistance  strategy  is  designed  to  support  the
anticipated development effort mainly through a series of lnvestment operations
particularly in the areas of population, health and education, water resource
development and financial development, and through economic work and technical
assistance aimed at improving public financial and natural resource management.
In judging the effectiveness of this strategy in assisting the country's progress
towards more sustainable development, the criteria for the near to medium-tera,
as outlined above, would includes continued maintenance of macroeconomic
stability; effective actions to improve public resourc ' management, especially
to prioritize the public expenditure program; strengthen financial institutionst
Increase domestic resource mobilisation and effective cost recovery to help
finance the expenditure program/reduce external dependencel and improved sectoral
policies aimed at reducing population growth, enhancing the quality and
effectiveness of social sector programs and improving natural resource
management.



- 21 -
PARS II
TH   oPiOSD COMI
56.        ackaround   In 1987, His Majesty's Government (3(G) adopted a basic
needs policy for the nation that requires, among other things, the provisLin of
water supply and sanitation services to all Its population and which also for the
first time emphasizes cost recovery. In 1988, responsibility for water supply
and sanitation vas transferred under a ministerial reorganization to a newly
constituted Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning. NMG's objectives for the
urban water supply and sanitation sector are ambitious and Include provision of
a 24-hour supply of affordable safe drinking water and sanitation to all the
urban population by 2005, and strengthening the institutional, operational and
financial capacity of the sector to met these responsibilities. To this end,
the Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) was formed in November 1989 as
successor to the Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation (1984-1989) and the Water
Supply and Sewerage Board (1974-1984). NMSC and its new management have made a
strong start, particularly in areas such as cost recovery, identifying and
correcting illegal connections, and in leak detection. The Department of Water
Supply and Sewerage is responsible for rural water supply and sanitation.
57.       With annual population growth ranging from about 52 in Kathmandu to 122
in some other urban areas, provision of urban services has not kept up with
demand. Nevertheless, considerable progress has been made in expanding water
supply in the towns of Nepal over the last decade and it wow reaches almost 702
of urban areas. However, while supply has expanded, there have been operational
problems.   For example, unaccounted for water is about 402, service is
intermittent and funding constraints have resulted in a low level of maintenance
and underutilization of assets. Water quality in parts of Greater Eatbmandu is
poor and excessive sediment and iron flocs have caused discoloration of water and
seriously impaired system operation. This created considerable consumer and
official dissatisfaction as shown in the report of the Pokhrel Commission in 1987
which argued for major refonms in sector institutions. In addition, it has been
difficult to balance the competing demands for sanitary sewers versus stonm water
drainage which has led to criticism of IDA-financed sanitation components. Many
of these shortcomings are being addressed under the proposed project.
58.       To meet projected demand, HDG has indicated that sector allocations for
water supply and sanitation in the Eighth Plan (1991-95) are to be increased from
the past level of 3S to 62 of the annual development budget. Building on these
indicative levels and a number of UNDP-financed studies, a Fifteen-Year
Development Program (FYDP) has been prepared by NWSC setting out a priority
investment program (including rehabilitation) as well as operational, financial
and managerial lmprovements to be addressed in the sector. The FYDP has nrovided
the fra&swork for the dialogue with IDA and other donors active in the water and
sanitation sectors. The proposed project is based on the first of the three
five-year phases in the FYDP and emphasizes rehabilitation of existing assets and
greater attention to management and operations and maintenance.
59.       Ratioale for IDA Involovment:  IDA is the lead agency In the sector
and its participation has helped guide development In a period of strong
urbanization through careful execution of studies and investment planning, as
well as coordination between donors. IDA has financed three projects (Credit
470-NIP, 1974, US$11.8 million; Credit 704-NEP, 1977, US$11.0 milliong and Credit
1059-NEP, 1981, US$27.0 million), all of which have been completed (PPMR No. 6506



-22-
dated November 1986 for Credits 470-NIP and 704-NIP; PPAR No. 9158 dated November
1990 for Credit 1059-NEP), and whose facilities are in use, and with appropriate
maintenance, can be sustained. While the projects helped achieve Increased
service  coverage  and  better public  health,  financial and  lnstitutional
perfonmance vas less satisfactory.  Lessons learned Indicate that IM  had
unrealistically high expectations that water supply institutions could be
transformed into well-managed, financially-viable entities within a short time.
Political realities, changes in organization and management, weaknesses In
planning and design work, supervision and contract administration, and Inadequate
responses to consumer complaints, all contributed to slower sectoral evolution
than initially expected.   IDA support has been nevertheless important in
assisting MKG to modulate its sectoral objectives, undertake long-term planning,
restructure institutions and management, implement cost recovery and cost savings
measures and nurture a commitment to sound utility practices. In the proposed
project, review of designs by IDA and NVSC will ensure that components are
least-cost, and that appropriate and affordable technology is utilized, unlike
in the previous projects where heavy =ngineering was emphasized.  Rigorous
financial objectives and tariff management will ensure that the investments will
be sustained.
60.       Proi*ct Obiectives.  The project, which seeks to improve urban water
supply and sanitation services and public health, has the following objectivest
(a) strengthening the technical, managerial, financial and operationsimaintenance
capability of NWSC; (b) increasing the utilization of existing systems through
rehabilitation and extensions; Cc) providing more effective and efficient
delivery of improved quality and increased quantity of water to consumsrst and
(d) improving public health through consumer education programs. The project was
prepared under a UNDP-financed study and a Project Preparation pacility for
detailed design of the core components.
61.       ProJect Description:    The project, to be implemented over a seven-
year period by NVSC, Includess (a) rehabilitation and extension of water supply
works, distribution, and wastage and leakage control of water in the Xatbmandu
Valley and nine towns outside the Valley; (b) improvements in sewerage and
sanitation in the same areas; (c) vehicles and equipment for NWSC; (d) training
of NWSC staff; and (e) community participation and consumer education programs,
including the involvement of women In the processes. It also provides funds for
a management support team and design and supervision of works. The total cost
of the project is US$71.0 mlIlion equivalent, vith a foreign cost component of
US$51.1 million (722). Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million would
finsnce ezpeaditures made after June 1, 1990. HKG has requested, and UNDP has
agreed in principle, to provide a grant of US$3.4 million to finance management
support to MISC (of whLch US$3.1 million is to b e ecuted by the Office of
Project Services). A breakdown of the costs and financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Aounts and methods of procurement and disbursement, and the
disbursement schedule, are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing
events and the status of Bank Group operations in Nepal are given in Schedules
C and D, respectively. A map is arse attached (No. IUiD 22087). The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 8340-NIP, is being distributed separately.
62.       The project represents about 531 of the cost of the first five-year
phase of the PYDP. Components, however *are freestanding and do not depend on
completion of any other works by NwSC or other donors. SMG, nevertheless, is
making its best efforts with IDA assistance to mobilize reources from other



-23-
donors to finance the remaining 472. Japan and Norway have to date made pledges
of US$15 million and US$2.5 million equivalent, respectively.  Water supply
components would be financed by HMG on the basis of 502 loan and 502 grant. The
50S5O ratio was determined after analysis of affordable solutions for consumer
needs and NWSC's ability to assume debt.   Funds for seweragelsanitation.
technical assistance, training, consumer education and comunity participation
would be passed on as grants.   Funding for sewerage and sanitation on a grant
basis is justified on the grounds of promoting better saw.itation as a precursor
to improved health and environmental conservation.   M40 would on-lend about
US$23.0 million of the credit proceeds for water supply and the balance of
US$37.0 million as a grant. Loans would be at 92 p.a. over 19 years, including
a four year grace period on principal. The grant would be capitalized as an
equity contribution to assist NWSC establish a firm financial base.
63.       Agreed Actions:   HMG has already completed the following agreed
actions: (a) authorized a revision of water tariffs of NWSC, which effectively
doubles its revenues; (b) passed the legislation creating NWSC with greater
autonomy and powers than its predecessors; (c) formulated the FYDP; and (d)
arranged for payment of arree s of debt service owed by NWSC. HHO has also
agreed to provide NWSC with a NRS 22 million operating subsidy during FY92.
Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be: (a) a water tariff increase
of not less than 502 and an increase in the sewerage surcharge from 252 to 502
of water charges; (b) resolution of a number of outstanding amounts in arrears
between mNSC, HMG and its agencies for payment of waterisanitation services and
electricity; (c) execution of a contract for the engagement of the management
support team; and (d) signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between HMG and
NWSC. In addition to physical investments, a number of interrelated activities
would be undertaken by NWSC and EHM, including environmental assessments,
investment and financial projections, location and repair of leaks, meter
cleaning and maintenance and reduction of non-operational staff. These actions
have been included in an Operational Action Plan which would be reviewed and
updated annually in consultation with IDA. Progress will be monitored by agreed
performance and program indicators and quarterly progress reports will be
submitted by NMSC.
64.       Benefits:  Losses from unaccounted for water will be reduced--thus
increasing water available for distribution, and water quality will be improved
through treatment of groundwater. Sector planning, including donor coordination,
is expected to improve under the FYDP. The operational and financial targets set
for NWSC will lead to better financial planning and investment programming. The
training program should result in more professional service on the part of NWSC
and its staffs the consumer education program will lead to better understanding
of the value of water/sanitation services and the need for cost recovery, and in
the long tens, to improved health and hygiene. The economic rate of return is
about 9.5 on the 312 of project costs for which benefits could be quantified.
65.      The project will have significant environmental benefits through the
provision of safe piped water, improved wastewater disposal, reduction in
pollution levels in rivers through repair of a ruptured sewer and diversion of
effluent from combined severs to trestmsnt plants, a greater proportion of the
population with sewer connections and introduction of a program of on-site
sanitation. These measures would improve personal household hygiene, improve
sanitary conditions, reduce odor and disease vectors and decrease flooding.
Surface and groundwater quality will be improved through improved treatment



-24-
facilities; water and effluent will be monitored.  With these improvements,
health and quality of life will be Improved. There are no resettlement issues
related to the two hectares of land required for the construction of two water
treatment plants. In view of the above, adverse environmental impacts would be
minimal.
67.       Riskst  the main risk is that, as the project is larger than any
previously undertaken in the sector, there will be slippage and missed targets
as NWSC adjusts to its ambitious program. The risk would be minimized by the
strong management team set up to advise and work with NWSC.
68.       Recomendation: I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend its approval by
the Executive Directors.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 17, 1991
.



Schedule A
NEPAL
URBAN WATER StUPPLY AND SAITAION RZEABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financin8 Plan
Estimated Costs
Project Components                                      C o s t
Local    ForeiLn    Total
-(US$ million)------
NVSC
Technical Assistance Training                      1.7      5.7         7.4
Consumer Education and Community Participation    0.2       0.2         0.4
Subtotal                                        1.9      5.9        7.8
Katbmandu Valley Towns
New Source:  Detailed Design                       0.8      2.2         3.0
Rehabilitation
Water Supply                                    4.3     13.0        17.3
Sanitation                                      0.9      2.5        3.4
Extension
Water Supply                                    2.0      6.3         8.3
Sanitation                                      0.8      2.5         3.3
Central Facilities and Plant                       0.6      1.9         2.5
Subtotal                                        9.4     28.4       37.8
Towns Outside Kathuandu Valley
Facilities and Plant                               0.5      0.5         1.0
Water Supply Rehabilitation                        2.1      2.1         4.2
Sanitation Improvements                            0.6      0.6         1.2
Subtotal                                        3 2      3.2         6.4
Total Base Cost                                14.5     37.5        52.0
Physical Contingencies                             1.5      3.7         5.2
Price Contingencies                                3.9      9.9        13.8
TOTAL COSTS 11                                 19.9     Sl l        71.0
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.8 million equivalent.
Finmcins Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)…_=_--
HMKG                                               7.6       0.0        7.6
UNDP                                               0.0       3.4        3.4
IDA                                               12.3     47.7        60.0
TOTAL                                         19.9     51.1        71.0



Schedule a
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION RZUABILITATION PROJCCT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
Procurement Method
Method
ITEM                            ICB       LCB      Other       Total
-USS million----- Cost
Land                                     --        --         1.5         1.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
Civil Works                              37.4       6.1       1.8        45.3
(34.1)    (5.2)      (0.8)     (40.1)
Equipment and Materials                   7.9       1.8       0.5        10.2
(7.9)    (1.2)      (0.4)      (0.5)
Consultancies                            --        --        12.2        12.2
(9.1)      (9.1)
Training and Consumer Education          --        --         1.8         1.8
(1.3)      (1.3)
45.3      7.9       17.8       71.0
(42.0)    (6.4)    (11.6)      (60.0)
Figures in parenthesis ( ) are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Associatidn.



S.hedsle a
Pase 2 of 2
Disburse_ents
Category                 Amount                  Proportion (Z)
(USS million)
(1) Civil Works
ICB contracts,
incl. turnkey            34.1          100l   of foreign expenditures and
70S of local expenditures
LCB contracts              5.2           70S of expenditures
Other                      0.8           70? of expenditures
(2)  Equipment & Materials      9.5           1002 of foreign expenditures;
10OZ of ex-factory cost of local
expenditures; 702 of other local
expenditures
(3) Consultants Services,
Technical Assistance
and Training               8.9           100? of expenditures
(4) Project Preparation
Facility                   1.5           100? of expenditures
TOTAL                60.0
Estimated IDA
Disbursemnts                           IDA Fiscal Year
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1990    1999
-----------------------(US$ million)…-------------…-------
Annual           1.8     4.8      7.2    10.8     9.6    13.2    7.2       5.4
Cummulative      1.8     6.6    13.8    24.6    34.2    47.4   54.6    60.0



Schedule C
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION RBHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key ProJect Processina Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                   Two years
(b)  Prepared by                             Government with UNDP financing
and executed by World Bank
(c) First IDA mission                        January/February 1989
*d)  Appraisal mission departure             November 3, 1989
(e)  Negotiations                            March 12-16, 1990
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness           August 31, 1991
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs         First and Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Projects, Credits
470-NEP and 704-NE, PPAR No.
6506, November 1986; Third
Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, Credit 1059-NEP, PPAR
No. 9158, November 1990



Schedule 0
TM STATUS OF SAW  ROWK OPRTIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATNWT OF BAW LOAM  AND IDA CSK6 a)
(A. of 0.eee.  81, 10)
Amount Ina US* *IIIton
CI...cancl U#lationa)
Flogh Undi.-
Creit No.         Year    Borrow                 Purpeoe                Sel        IDA      bured
St credIto have be" fully dleur*W                                                83.6
Of which SECAL, Se and Prorsea  Loons b)
Cr. 17694V      1T7       Npl         Structural Adjtwtmmnt              0.0      50.0
Sub-Total                                                             0.0      50.0
Cr. 1100-NI     1061      Nepal       Extenion S Research                         17.5         .
Cr. 11954W      1011      Ne"al       Education It                                14.8        5.4
Cf. 12604W      1902      Nepl        Petroleu  exploration Prm                    7.8        1.2
Cr. 1316-N      106       Nel         Uhat rev-LunmbilIt                          10.0        0.5
Cr. 179-W      1to8       Nepal       Technical Assistance                         0.0        0.5
Cr. 1400W       1i4       Nepal       Foretry I  (Teral)                           7.4        5.9
Cr. 14684W      1054      Neal        Education      (Prie"y)    1.2.0                         0.
Cf. 147N4_      1064      Neal        Poe U  (ryand)                             107.0       62.8
Cr. 1156W       19#       Neal        Hihay II                                    47.5        84.4
Cr. 1634-W      10"       Npal        Ag sll Mapor                                  .4         0.0
Cr. 1656W       16        Nepal        ndutl Devlopment                            7.5         8.9
Cr. 1670tW      166       Nepal       Agrcultural extension U                      7.2         7.7
Cr. 16804W      19U       NePal       T.l.co.unicatin  IV                         22.0        10.2
Cr. 164EV       1065      Nel         Cot"   Sall "    dut Id                     10.0         0.9
Cr. 17156W      1066      Neal        tbryni  rriatlo I KU                        24.5        25.4
cr. 127-1W      10        Nepl        Rurl Developmt UK                           19.1        20.2
Cr. 18144S      1067       epal       Sunoarym   n  2K                            40.0        82.0
Cr. 1002V       16        NIl         Third T.A. (neowar)                         14.4        0.?
cr. 1922-       1M        N l         Road Flood Ralitation                       15.5        18.0
Cr. 1924-N      1o        Nal           hakalli Irrgatlon I                       41.8        82.9
Cr. 10 W        1060      Neal        Munipatwl    a E arhquak                    41.6        21.9
Cr. 2    E      1089      Nepai  CoNItto Forloy                                   20.6        29.3
Cr. 20204W      1910      Neal        A     II Acc_e Rm                            2.R a4.
Ce. 2044EP    1919        Nel         Eagineg E           ncaie                   11.4        U.11
eCr. 20464V      I0                    Structural Adjuetment It                    00.0        21.6
Cr. 2047t       10        N l         Eartake  hol Rehb                           22.6        24.1
Cr. 244-   c  10          Nl           hairewo Lumbt  st                          47.2        51.4
- - 
Total                                                   0.0   1017.4 d)   408.0 01
of wlhch bao bee repid                                          6.5
Total sow held by BSak and IDA                           0.0   1010.9
_~~~~~                                              -
of whlc repald
TOal oWdbareed                                                              494.0
a) No Bank loans have bee made to NePa.
6) Approved d.ariu  or ater FY60.
c) Net ye effec
O The principa I ameunto of IDA credit. are ekes. in US Dol  equlvleat  date of n eptietioUt
a, ebown lathe WProidst'e Report. Uadeburad ameunte choe sto US Do$ lor aivot are valwed
at the exchange rate applicable on the date o* thi a atateme lt sce, owes tbhreforeo thei
undiebureed balance lit.dcatee a dol lar e et greeter than the _ oriogll pwlaelpel creitt
amou°t eupeed sl dell ars.
*  SL,   AL or Proam  Lea.



J.a L..       rUL.            ObIi otT ou tIS
$12         i9M      $".lte  Hotel (Priet.A) Ltd.    "obe               2.70      0.41   . .18
624         1162    Nopel Orped Mhp t.               mine SWnd pseom
(PrIvt_) Ltd.                     _eI -It* Or,     4.2?       -      4.92
Total *tro  C_emiteente                                      7.67      0.43    6.0
.~~~~ _
Lee. C.l.tIe, temIeatlo..,
repey"enb ed sales                                           2.70       -       2.70
Totel comItments no  held by WC                              9 .46     0.43   90.6
hrta lesuM  jD        -onlon
i   Exchn   Ked nOtete seeeunCt tfo  veretltn lan totl groe e.inttet*O, lose conc l. tt... etc.
cjd toeteS eowltmet   nor held by FPC.



Schedule E
Page 1 of 2
Table It NEPAL - KEY INDICATORS, 196/67-1992/93
_____________.  _-----_________-_-.---_-________.___--------------------------------..............................-...---------..........-..---.. _.________ -- - - - - -- - - - - -
-.---- ----ACTUALe-----------------------PROJECTED--------
1960/*7 1987/66  1981819 19/S90   1990/91  1991/92 1992/93
..________________----_------ _ _ __ --.-------- ___  ___._._____________..._______._____._ -__ -_
REAL CROWTh RATES:               I
GOP CROTIH RATE                I    3.9      7.8      2.3     2.0        3.6     4.0      4.5
PER CAPITA GDP GROWTH RATE     I    1.3      S.2    -0..    -0.0         0.9     1.4      1.9
oEBT a OUT SERVICE               I
TOTAL DOD/A (r8 USS MM.)       I    603    1109    1214    1594         1654    1725   1430
OOD/COP                        I   31.6    33.1    44.6    64.8         50.7    51.9    57.3
DEBT SERVICE/XGS               I    6.0      7.3      9.1    10.6       10.9    10.1      9.4
DEBT SERVICE/GOP               I    0.9      1.2      1.4     1.9        1.9     2.0      1.5
GROSS INVESTMENT/COP             I   21.0    20.6    19.5    20.0         20.3    21.0    21.6
RESOURCE GAP/GDP                 I   -7.9    -9.5   -10.5   -11.1        -10.7    -9.9    -9.3
GROSS NATIONAL SAVINQS/GOP       |   14.7    12.0       9.7     9.3       10.2    12.1    13.2
PUBLIC INVESTMENT/COP            I    8.0      7.7      6.7     9.0        6.9     9.0      9.2
PUBLIC SAVINCS/COP               I    0.?      0.9    -0.3      0.5        0.0      1.4     2.0
PRIVATE INVESTMENT/COP           I   13.6    12.6    10.6    11.0         11.7    12.6    12.6
NATIONAL PRIVATE SAVINGS/GDP     I   14.0    11.1    10.0       S.6        9.6    10.7    11.2
GOVERNMENT REVENUES/COP          I    9.8    10.4       9.6    10.6       10.5    10.7    10.9
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES/GOP      I   18.0    19.6    22.2    21.8         20.0    19.3    19.1
OEFZCtT(-) OR SURPLUS(*)/GOP     I   -6.2    -9.1   -12.4   -10.?         -9.6    -8.6    -6.2
cPt (1960.100)                   1  207.6   230.6   249.1   27n.0        304.4   334.6   361.0
tMPLICtT GOP DOEFLATOR (X CHANCE)   I   11.7   6.9      S.$     7.5        9.3    10.0      8.0
EXPORT GROWTH RATE (USS NOMtNAL)   I  -10.6    34.5   -11.9      .?       21.6    12.6    13.7
EXPORTS/COP                      I    6.0      6.9      5.4     5.9        7.2      7.7     7.9
IMPORT CROWN RATE (US2 NOMtNAL)   j    7.1    24.5      13     -1.2        6.8      9.1     6.2
IMPORTS/CDP                      I   18.4    20.0    21.0    21.2         22.3    23.2    21.6
TERMS OF INDEX (PERCENT CHANGE)    I   -6.9    10.C     4.4    -5.1       -5.2    -2.7    -0.3
CURRENT ACCOT  (US  N.)          I
(09WORE OFFtCtAL CAPtTAL GRANTS) I -194.6  -267.6    -295  -320.0       -315  -300.0  -30S.0
CURRENT ACCOUNT/COP              I   -7.1    -6.5    -9.6   -10.?        -10.1    -6.9    -8.3
CROSS OFFICIAL RESERVES (IN
MONTHS OF MPO                  I    3.6      6.3      5.0      6.3       5.6      5.7     S.5
/A medium and long tere debt outstanding and disbursed.
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND STAFF ESTIMATES.



Tab$. 2: NEPAL - BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
(In Cwr.ot 15m MI Ui ;on)
*__ * _ --_-------------------------------------------------------------------------- _------------------D-------
S1O86/3  1161/86  1662/68  16U/84    1994/16  1986/80  1010/87  1997/89 198/S9  1969/90   1990/91  1991/92  1862/93
SE3Mi OF 0D0 A WS                  1       1 214  m        260      278        SO       829     $49      306      384      366        436      466      620
UEKNOWU (F0S)                          ins      its       6       111        164      1"       US      167      186      17         230      266      290
MM  OF  SM I WS                          447      462      622     498        623      624      667    6a6        705      696        770     600    860
E1WK 1U18 (CIP)                        371      #14      460      424        436     472      606      680      638      630        700      730      790
NIH-PACTQ SENICES                       76        O       62       74         St.     62       61       00       67       as         70       70       70
RESOURCE BALANCE                        -163     -173    -272  -224.8    -221.7  -196.9    -218  -800.8  -321.4  -332.4              -336    -336    -340
t1 Facia*8  luC0o                  j      10       12       18        8          1      -42     -42      -42      -33      -so        -86      -30     -36
"Li CDmIUI" teaf$DS                I      47       41       42       46         43      46       64       76            66       6     56      6a        70
(Wl S RiMS i attNES)
cARSw  A/C SAL SEfOR  OFF.TRAUSF.        -96     -120    -236      -177       -179    .109     -196    -266    -296    -a20         -316    -300    -30s
OTI OPICIAL RMUSFWES                    72       so       W        so         is      a        so        a       4a        3         6o       70       77
CAMmiN A4C SAL APTER OFF.TRWUP.          -as      -to    -122      -47        -104     -126    -16     -210    -249    -267         -266    -230    -226
SLOS-MMRCAPITAL IULW                      6        60       67       76         71      91       of      198      232      216        186      210      226
UfaL Oin =1128011) *1                   28.I      6.6     62.7   -13.7      -27.6    11.4       0.6   117.7    16.2    80.1            61       10      16
COWER = NET KUBMff        b/           -41.8   -86.6       2.8    27.7       00.0   -22.0   -40.4  -106.7    -2.2    12.9              19       10      -13
8180    SM GAIA5                      -4.7    -7.2   -11.1    -4.7          -6.9    -7.7    -7.9    -9.6   -10.6   -11.1          -10.7    -9.9    -9.a
-A4        AC NT GALM                 -4.2     4.0      -.0      -.0        -7.1    -7.0    -7.1   -4.5    -0.7   -10.7           -10.1   -4.9    -3.3
IANSl.      CaPTAL DAIS                1.6      2.9      8.0      8.1        2.2      8.0      6.6      9.9     6.6    12.0         8.2      7.3      6.6
NI6RASW1  ITEMs:*
165E3rtE 13MW UC "LA S  ".)            10$.@    282.¢t6.6   282.8 0.$    02.6  142.0   184.6   206.0   310.7   $12.9    W000        281.0   271.0   24t0 .0 n
inStil INCL.UW (US 5.)34.2    286.0    23.7    266.0     146.4   171.0   211.4   817.1   810.3   3061.4         267.4   277.4   260.4    01
460  _  1S IN    OF                      6.2      0.2   2.L         4.6    2 .2         3.6      8.6     6.3      6.0      6.3        6.0      6.7     6 6
OFCUICM  SICVUNR  RATI(CUjU)           11.07    12.86    13.77    16.40      17.68    10.84    21.00   22.06    26.60   26.64       30.30    81.48   88.27 
OM  RAUE U=S  F OF UP CIIU             32.00    1284    183.0    16.2        17.72    10.86    21.60    2.                                               7     o
ENM  OF R&EA  FF. VWC  RATs
Lug5 ,9181                          106.06   I16."   17.    106.06  U0.            9r 10    9 04.71    91.20   68.46      .          . 
GOP MIILLI OF 0W2 US)                   227      28       2447    2661       2406    2647    2743    8162    3067    296f            3)20    3370    3676
*/14614     all otbM  0*1teSl.
bS CiSC     * iIeS " O
cn""¢g.t ultlSTRY Of FINANCOE A STAFF ESTIMATES.



IBRD 2202 
,^  er                                   e~~~~~~~~8-                                         e                                                                     N E P A L                                            l
WATER SUPPLY AND
K  X ~ ",                            -n 7                                                                                                   :SANrATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
-30
3~~~~~~~~*UU                                                                                                         Ai"pT<
DA0iC$HLA                                     -' 0                                                                                             4n.w.'  0tv8   co,
YsA~AQ 'FAR,,A                                                                                                                                                                        &i:
A                                                                              Te A-  P--h-oto                        -
gJ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  Zio Ksdooo                                                                                      ' V   K   O.O  A4CH  .. C  bsoftodr
(WiESTE   Rt  gCHAM7  ,   "Atr k\   MID   X--J     DOLPA
STERC  ½- c
DOTI ~  ~     ~      /      AARO 
=~~-                       'h \' K    _                                      \.-  MYGIN
~VVN±L5~(dQZUP0                      4010        1        10         14   U\g
RK.ET~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~HKNC¼                                          C.h 
a.,w~~~~~~~~~fi^                                  O~~~~~~~  20      40       40       b0      140 /IIIES   \/
_|ta~~~~~~~~~~2 me                                                                                                                                06 r                                                               2
,2r                                                                                                                                              4( T by  \2JAN                                                                 199



