Document of
The World Bankc
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportlNo. 8340-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 17, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mzay be used by recipients oily in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wilhout W,orld Bank authoraton.



CUVRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Nepalese Rupee (NR)      =     100 paisa
US$1                     =     NRs 30.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1       =   Liter (1 liter = 0.26 US gallons)
lcd     =   Liter per capita per day
-3      =   Cubic meter (1 ' = 1000 1)
ml      =   Million liters (1 Ml = 1000 ")
mld         Million liters per day
l/sec   =   Liter per second
mm      =   Millimeter (1 mm = 0.03937 inch)
m       =   Meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
km          Kilometer (1 km = 0.62 mile)
sq.km   =   Square kilometer (1 sq.km = 0.386 square mile)
ha      =   Hectare (1 ha = 0.01 km2 = 2.47 acres)
g       -   Gram (1 g = 0.035 ounce)
mg/l    =   Milligram per liter (1 mg - 0.001 g)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
FYDP    =   Fifteen-Year Development Program
DWSS    =   Department of Water Supply and Sewerage
GTZ     -   Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
(Federal Republic of Germany's Agency for Technical
Cooperation)
HMG     -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
NWSC    -   Nepal Water Supply Corporation (formerly the
Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation)
OAP     a   Operational Action Plan
SIMS    -   Service Improvements and Management Support
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Progranme
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
NEPAL
URBAN WATSR SUPPLY AND SANITATION RE4AILITATIOP PtOJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 'f Contents
page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMWRY ...........................i-i
'.   TUE URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ...................1
A.  Sector Background      ..........................................
B.  Sector Institutions .........  ............................   3
C.  Government's Sector Objectives, Investment Planning
and Strategy              .... 4
D. Fifteen-Year Development Program.             .    .           4
E. IDA's Sector Role and Assistance Strategy     . . .            5
F. Donor Support..                                                 7
II. TM hPROJECT.                                                        7
A. Project Concept  .        ...........................................   7
B. Project Objectives. . .                                        8
C. Project Dcacription             . . .
D. Project Costs and Financing. . .                               9
E.  Project Implementation .....................................  11
Implementation Agency and Period .....     ..................  11
Status of Preparation and Design Review ..................  11
Operational Action Plan ................................  12
Land Acquisition ...................                      12
Environmental Actions ...................   13
Procurement ............................................  13
Disbursements . ..........................................    5
Special Account ...............  .........................  15
Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision .....   .............  15
III. ORGANIZATION AND MAEAGUNMhT ......................... .........   16
A.  Nepal Water Supply Corporation ......   ......................   16
B.  Operations and Maintenance .......   .........................   16
C.  Financial Performance        .....................................   17
D.  Tariffs and Financial Covenants ......  .....................   20
E.  Accounts and Audits .........   ..............................    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in November
1989, and updated in January 1991.   Mission members included Messrs. C.
Godavitarne (MHi ion Leader, Sr. Municipal Engineer), P. McCarthy (Sr. Financial
Analyst), and d. Abushakra (Lawyer) of IDA; and consultants including Messrs. T.
Tenzing (Engineer - UNDP Project RAS/86/160), A. Mudaskar (Accountant), R.
Laukkanen (Engineer), J. Sanvido (Engineer), and M. Whitbread (Economist). The
report has been endorsed by Messrs. S. Asanuma (Director, Asia Region, Country
Dcpartment I), and H. J. Staab (Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division). The
review team consisted of Messrs. A. Zavala (institutional aspects), G. Sengupta
(finance), and C. Couzens (technical aspects).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
IV.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION             ......................  ..............    22
A.  Environmental Impact .....................................    22
B.  Benefits for the Urban Poor ......        .........................  23
C.  Economic Analysis .........................................    23
D.  Risks and Safeguards .......        ...............................    26
V.    AGRBEMENTS AND RECONMENDATION   .. .............. .......                26
TEXT TABLES
Table 2.1:  Summary Project Cost Estimates .....        .....................    10
Table 3.1:  Financial Highlights .......         .............................    19
Table 3.2:  Tariffs for Metered Connections        .       ................    20
Table 3.3:  Tariffs for Unmetered Connections .......................    20
Table 4.1:  Economic Rates of Return ...............................    25
ANNEXES
Annex  1:   Population Projections and Water Supply Coverage,
Finances, and Staffing and Operations ...................    29
Annex  2:   Fifteen-Year Development Program .....         ...................    33
Annex  3:   Project Components ......................................    35
Annex  4:   Project Funds Requirements ..................     ...5.........    s
Annex  5:   Implementation Schedule ......         ...........................    52
Annex  6:   Operational Action Plan ......         ...........................    53
Annex  7:   Procurement Method, List of Contracts and
Contract Groupings for ICB ............... .....                  S?
Annex  8:   Disbursement Schedule .          . .......................... ......    61
Annex  9:   Nepal Water Supply Corporation .....        .....................    62
Annex 10:   Operational Improvements ......         ..........................    65
Annex 11i   Financial Analysis .......         ...............................    74
Annex 12:   Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts and
Mitigating Measures ......................................        79
Annex 13:   Economic Analysis Data ..................................    81
Annex 14:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File    84
MAP
IBRD 22087



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:      Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC)
Amount:            SDR 45.5 million (US$60.0 million equivalent)
Terrms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancier:       The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP):  a grant of
US$3.4 million to fund the management support requirements for
NWSC.
On-lending Termss Consistent with project and sector objectives, terms and
conditions of on-lending from Government to NWSC would be as
follows:
-     Water supply components 502 loan and 50? grant.
-     Sewerage  and  sanitation  components  and  technical
assistance 1002 grant.
-     Interest on loans of about US$23.0 million at 9Z per
annum, repayment over 19 years, including four years
grace period on principal; foreign exchange risk to be
borne by Borrower.
Project
Descriptions       The  project  seeks  to  improve  urban  water  supply  and
sanitation services and public health in the 12 towns under
the jurisdiction of NWSC (the three towns of Kathmandu Valley
and nine towns outside the Valley) by: (a) strengthening the
technical, managerial, financial and operations/maintenance
capability of NWSC; (b) increasing the utilization of existing
systems through rehabilitation and extensions; (c) providing
more effective and efficient delivery of improved quality and
increased quantity of water to consumers; and (d) improving
public health through consum'r education programs.   These
objectives would be achieved through (a) management support
and design/supervision assistance; (b) rehabilitation and
extension of water supply works, distribution and loss
control; (c) improvements in sewerage and sanitation in the
same areas; (d) training; and (e) consumer education.
Benefits
and Risks:        With the endorsement by His Majesty's Government (HMG) of
NWSC's Fifteen-Year Development Program, sector planning and
donor coordination are expected to improve. Losses from



- Li-
unaccounted for water would be reduced thus increasing water
availability, and water quality would improve through
treatment of groundwater. Significant environmental benefits
will accrue througlh the provision of safe piped water,
improved wastewater disposal, reduction of pollution in
rivers, increased sewer connections and on-site sanitation.
NWSC may fail to meet operational and financial targets,
specifically  tariff    increases  to  meet  its  financial
objectives.     Regular  tariff  increases  and  operational
improvements have been incorporated into the project design to
minimize these risks.
Project Cost:                               Local        Foreign      Total
----------US$ million--------
Civil Works                                  9.8         24.0         33.8
Materials and Equipment                      2.0          5.4          7.4
Engineering Design, Training and
Technical Assistance                       2.7          8.1         10.8
Base Costs                                  14.5         37.5         52.0
Physical Contingencies                       1.5          3.7          5.2
Price Contingencies                          3.9          9.9         13.8
Subtotal Contingencies                     5.4         13.6         19.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS '                       19.9         51.1         71.0
Financing Plan:                             Local        Foreign      Total
-------   USS Million--------
IDA                                   12.3         47.7        60.0
UNDP                                   0.0          3.4          3.4
HMG                                    7.6          0.0         7.6
TOTAL                                       19.9         51.1         71.0
Estimated Disbursements;
IDA Fiscal Year          FY92  FY93  IPY94  FY95  FY96  F97  FY98  FY99
----------------------USS million-------------
Annual             1.8   4.8    7.2  10.8   9.6  13.2   7.2   5.4
Cumulative         1.8   6.6   13.8  24.6  34.2  47.4  54.6  60.0
Economic Rate of Return:       About 9.5X on components for which benefits were
quantifiable, accounting for 31Z of project cost.
1/ The total cost, net of taxes and duties (US$0.8 million), is
'0.2



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. SECTOR BACKGROUND
General
1.01     Compared to conditions prevailing a decade ago, considerable advances              _
have been made in urban water supply coverage in Nepal. Latest estimates are
that over 70% of the urban population has access to reasonably safe drinking
water.   This is despite a population growth rate of 4.7Z p.a. in Greater
Kathmandu (i.e., Kathmandu and Lalitpur) and up to 12% p.a. in other towns (Annex
1), compared to a national average of 2.7Z.  Despite this achievement, there are            U
still major deficiencies in water quality and service levels, particularly in
urban centers which account for 10% of Nepal's population of about 16 million.
Sanitation has received little attention to date with only 17% of urban areas
having adequate sanitary facilities. Recent studies (para 1.14) have confirmed
major deficiencies in water supply and sanitation. Emphasis on coverage alone
has resulted in inadequate attention to water quality, service levels.
sanitation, cost recovery and operations and maintenance. Outbreaks of water-
related diseases such as cholera and gastroenteritis have occurred about once
every  two  to  three  years.    Apart  from  the  adverse health  impacts  and
inconvenience to consumers, reports of water quality problems affect Nepal's main
revenue earner--tourism.  Environmental conditions continue to deteriorate in
urban areas due to rapid urban growth, lack of a clear strategy to address
environmental issues and resource constraints. Current conditions and trends are
described in the following paragraphs.
Kathmandu Valley Towns
1.02     Water Supply:  Kathmandu Valley towns include Kathmandu, Lalitpur and
Bhaktapur. Excluding Bhaktapur (1989 population 52,000), which has a separate
water source and distribution system, Kathmandu and Lalitpur had an estimated
1989 population of 440,000 which is projected to increase to about 870,000 by the
year 2005. The Kathmandu-Lalitpur system has an installed capacity of about 90
mld comprising equal amounts of surface and groundwater. Groundwater extraction
has been increased from about 4 mld to about 42 mld over the past decade, due to
the n-,navailability of surface sources from within the Valley.  Surface water
(ext,racted from within the Valley) and some groundwater is treated at four
treatment plants, while most of the groundwater (containing iron levels up to 6
mg/l, and ammonia) receives only chlorination. When borehole water is mixed with
treated surface water, iron flocculation occurs causing serious operational
problems (e.g., choked meters and pipes, odor and staining), as well as numerous
consumer complaints, resistance to pay charges and meter tampering. There are
seven reservoirs with a total storage capacity of 22.9 cubic meters.   A
distribution system, parts of which are over 50 years old and of poor material,
covers about 90% of the urban area. There are about 61,550 private connections
serving about 802 of the population, and 1,176 public standposts. The supply is



-2-
intermittent, and limited to two, three-hour periods per day. Deficiencies in
the distribution system result in some areas receiving less than the minimum
twice daily three-hour supply, while a few locations enjoy . 24-hour supply.
Compared to an average supply of about 65 mld, unaccounted for water amounts to
about 26 mld or about 402 of supply.   This is attributable to losses in the
sybtem, wastage and theft.   Current estimated demand is about 54 mld.   The
existing  restricted  supply  situation  provides  about  80  lcd,  leaving  an
unsatisfied demand of over 30%. Future water demand for Kathmandu Valley towns
is indicated in Annex 1. Lower income neighborhoods are served by standposts--
charges for which are paid by the Government. This service has recently been
augmented by tankers supplying water to small tanks located in areas where water
pressure is low. Higher income residents install ground-level and overhead tanks
to assure themselves of a de facto 24-hour supply. Treated water and groundwater
are subject to contamination under prevailing periodic negative pressure
conditions which occur due to intermittent supply.   Current procedures and
practices for pipelaying, ferule specification, testing and service connections
are thought to contribute significantly to water losses.
1.03     A major constraint on sector development inside Kathmandu Valley is the
steady depletion of groundwater and nonavailability of other surface sources
with!n the Valley that are economical to develop.   Existing sources are now
wholly inadequate to meet the demands of the fast-growing urban center of Greater
Kathmandu beyond the end of this decade. A prefeasibility study carried out with
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) assistance identified the Melamchi
River as a promising outside-the-Valley source. An ongoing detailed feasibility
study is due for completion by late 199i, following which detailed designs will
be commenced if a decision is made to construct the scheme. Apart from technical
considerations,  the decision will be influenced by economic and financial
considerations, investment priorities, and review of other solutions including
efforts to further control losses and wastage.
1.04     Sanitation:  Over the past decade, about 50 km of trunk and collector
sewers were constructed in Greater Kathmandu, covering about 20? of the city
area. A 50 to 70 year old system of combined stormwater and sanitary sewers
exists in the old core area of Kathmandu comprising covered drains.  As the
sewerage discharge from the old combined system was to rivers, efforts have been
made to intercept the flows and divert them to the sewage treatment facilities
which were completed in 1984. These efforts have been only partially successful.
An unsatisfactory situation now exists because: (a) not all of the old sewers
have been intercepted; (b) sewer connections have been few due to consumer
unwillingness to incur the expense of connections; (c) sewage enroute to the
treatment plants is being diverted illegally by farmers by blocking manholes or
rupturing z.runk sewers; (d) low flows and dumping of solid wastes in tne system
cause frequent blockages; and (e) a general low priority is given to sanitation
by the Government. Over the past two years, the Nepal Water Supply Corporation
has commenced construction of another sewer system responding to public demand,
with the community contributing 50% of the cost. This system does not conform
to the drainage plan, nor does it always convey sewage to the treatment plants.
At present, it serves primarily to alleviate flooding, and has as yet few service
connections.
1.05     Bhaktapur has relatively better services due to investments by the
Federal Republic of Germany's Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) which has
supported the Bhaktapur Development Project s' -e 1974 under a bilateral



- 3 -
agreement with the Government. It has longer supply hours than Greater 'eathmandu
and a larger proportion of consumers are connected to the sewer system, as the
connections were grant-financed. Amongst other activities, most of the water
distribution system was replaced, combined sewers were laid extensively, and two
sewage treatment plants were constructed. A 1988 GTZ-assisted study reported
faults in the distribution network, treatment works, transmission maintenance,
management and operations and suggests that, once the repairs are completed, a
24-hour supply to Bhaktapur can be made available.
Towns Outside Kathmandu Valley
1.06     Water Supply: Piped water systems in the towns (municipalities) outside
Kathmandu Valley suffer from many of the same problems as Greater Kathmandu.
Four of these towns are situated on the lower Himalayas and the remainder on the
flat northern Indo-Gangetic plain known as the Terai.  (See IBRD Map 22087).
Pokhara and Nepalgunj have a 24-hour supply.   Facilities  in Birgunj are
underutilized, although a 24-hour service could easily be maintained.  Water
supply in other towns is intermittent and limited to a few hours twice each day.
In the Terai, the groundwater table is shallow and many homeowners have installed
their own shallow wells and handpumps which provide ample supplies for daily
household needs. Improperly located on-site sanitation facilities pose a high
risk of contamination to drinking water.   The relatively easy access to an
alternative source of water in the Terai acts as a constr int on tariff levels
that can be charged by NWSC.  It implies special efrorts to encourage better
hygiene and public health. However, none of the towns outside Kathmandu Valley
has waterborne sewerage systems.
3.07     Population projections, water production, coverage and other details of
the nine towns outside the Kathmandu Valley under NWSC jurisdiction (Pokhara,
Biratnagar, Birgunj, Bhairahawa, Butwal, Dharan, Hetauda, Janakpur and Nepalgunj)
are given in Annex 1. The nine town.s have a total source capacity of 78 mld,
generally adequate to meet demand, excepr in Dharan.   Due to operational
problems, however, the available supply after unaccounted for water is deducted,
provides supplies varying from 37 lcd in Dharan to 98 lcd in Nepalgunj.
1.08     The 1989 collective population of outside the Valley towns is estimated
at 725,500 and is expected to reach about 2.8 million by the year 2005
(Annex 1, Table 1).  The corresponding population and housing density will bring
increasing numbers of on-site sanitation facilities close to shallow wells,
greatly increasing the risk of drinking water contamination. What is needed to
avoid this situation is the expansion of piped water systems kept under constant
pressure, combined with a coordinated system of improved and carefully sited low-
cost on-site sanitation supplemented with waterborne sewerage, where appropriate.
B. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
1.09     Responsibility for water supply and sanitation rests with the Water
Supply and Sanitation wing of the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning,
which was created in February 1988. Under this wing, there are two agencies:
the autonomous Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) and the Department of Water
Supply and Sewerage (DWSS). Prior to February 1988, water supply and sanitation
were the responsibility of the Ministry of Water Resources.



1.10     NWSC (see Chapter III) is responsible for water supply and sanitation
in 12 out of the 33 towns of Nepal. NWSC is ehe successor to the Water Supply
and Sewerage Corporation (which was liquidated in November 1989 by virtue of the
NWSC Act), formed in 1984 and which itself evolved from the Water Supply and
Sewerage Board, created in 1974, which had been set up to implement earlier IDA-
financed water supply -nd sanitation projects. The evolution of the ageIcy has
been dictated, in part, by the Government's sector policy adjustments which
emphasize consumers paying a greater share of the economic cost of the service
consistent with affordability. Successive agencies have thus enjoyed greater
measures of autonomy. DWSS is responsible for all urban areas other than the 12
towns which are under NWSC's jurisdiction, and the rural sector.   Under the
provisions of the NWSC Act, HMG has powers to expand NWSC's jurisdiction to other
areas, if and when appropriate.
C. GOVERMENT' S SECTOR OBJECTIVES, INVESTMENT PLANNING AND STRATEMY
1.11     The obiectives of His Majesty's Government (HMG) for the urban water
supply and sanitation sector are:
(a) a 24-hour supply of affordable and safe drinking water to all of the
country's urban population by the year 2005;
(b) affordable sewerage/sanitation facilities to the urban population, also
by the year 2005; and
(c) strengthening of NWSC's operational capabilities and financial
viability.
1.12     HMG's strategy on environmental issues is to minimize and mitigate
adverse environmental impacts on its cultural patrimony and natural resources.
The motivation in part was due to the country's dependence on tourism as the
major source of revenue.  Beyond this, HMG addresses environmental issues in
response to requirements in specific subsectors.  HMG has se:, .p an environmental
committee in the National Planning Commission to review macro issues relating to
the environment, but has no plans to create a central environmental agency. A
HMG strategy and guidelines to address environmental concerns in the water supply
and sanitation sector, specifically in the Kathmandu Valley, is currently under
preparation, financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
D. FIFTEEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.13     To attain 1MG's objectives, a Fifteen-Year Development Program (FYDP)
(Annex 2) for NWSC has been prepared.   It was motivated,  in part, by the
declaration of His Majesty the King in December 1985 pledging to fulfill the
basic needs of the people of Nepal. These needs include food, water, clothing,
shelter, health, education and security adequate to achieve a standard to enable
people to lead a life with dignity. Feasibility of the program has been subject
to much discussion, given the low levels of per capita income growth in Nepal.
Fulfillment of the objectives within stringent resource constraints will require
strengthening of the institutionil framework, appropriate design standards, cost
recovery and self-help in infrastructure development such as shelter and public
utility services.



-5-
1.14     The FYDP also grew out of a number of studies includingt   (a) the
Service Improvements and Management Support (SIMS) project, initiated with UNDP
assistance in 1988, and executed by The World Bank, to prepare strategies,
progrmais and costs for management, operations and training support to NWSC,
focusing primarily on requirements in the Kathmandu Valley area (a similar UNDP-
financed study for improving service delivery in the outside-the-Valley towns was
also initiated by NWSC in 1989); (b) using IDA Technical Assistance funds, HMG
commissioned a study of drainage and sanitary sewerage in the Greater Kathmandu
area; and (c) UNDP-furded feasibility and environmental impact studies to
identify a suitable outside-the-Valley source have been ongoing since 1987 in
view of the rapid depletion of water sottrces within the Kathmandu Valley.
1.15     For the past 20 year^, approximately 3% of the development budget has
been allocated t-n water and sanitation with a split of approximately 50/50
between the rural and urban sectors. To help fulfill HMG's objectives in the
sector, the National Planning Commission is using an indicative allocat:.on of
about 6% of the annual development budget over the next 15 years.  The FYDF is
based on this allocation and assumes that 70% of the total sector allocation
would be assigned to the towns administered by NWSC; the balance would be
assigned to the remaining towns and the rural sector administered by DWSS.  The
apparent imbalance in the urban versus rural investments is dictated by the
prospect of a severe water shortage in Greater Kathmandu in less than 10 years
and the heavy investment required to develop a water source from outside-the-
Valley for Kathmandu. The FYDP, as formulated and endorsed by HMG in July 1989,
was revised and agreed during appraisal of the project. The total program cost
is US$648 million (in 1990 prices), in three five-year phases of US$126, US$229
and US$293 million, respectively. The proposed project is based on Phase I of
the program. On the physical side, it emphasizes rehabilitation and extension
of existing water supply networks together with some sewerage and sanitation; on
the software side, it emphasizes management and operational improvements and cost
recovery. Future phases will focus on completing the water supply investments,
extending sewerage and sanitation systems and achieving cost recovery.
Feasibility of these phases has still to be established in detail and the project
would assist with this.
1.16     In Greater Kathmandu, the FYDP proposes to extend water supply from the
present six hours a day for an estimated 440,000 people to a 24-hour supply for
a projected 870,000 people by the year 2005.   Sewerage/sanitation facilities
would be provided as well. The strategy for achieving the above, which is very
ambitious, would be through rehabilitation of, and extensions to, the existing
water and sewerage/sanitation facilities, and the development of a new source of
water for Greater Kathmandu from outside the Kathmandu Valley.
1.17     In the nine outside the Kathmandu Valley towns, water supplies (mainly
groundwater) would be developed to increase service coverage from the estimated
1989 population of 725,500 to a projected population of 2.8 million by the year
2005. On-site sanitation programs would be promoted and, where practicable and
affordable, waterborne sewerage systems would be introduced into the core areas.
E. IDA'S SECTOR ROLE AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.18     IDA has aporoved three credits for Nepal's urban water supply and
sewerage sector:  a credit of US$7.8 million (No. 470-NEP) in 1974; a second
credit of US$8.0 million (No. 704-NEP) in 1977, and a third credit of US$27.0



- 6-
million (No. 1059-NEP) in 1980.  A US$10.5 million credit (No. 1988-NEP) for
urban development was also approved and became effective on September 14, 1989.
The first two water supply projects required e8U Lemental financings a US$4.0
million IDA credit in 1977, and a US$3.0 miiiion IDA-adchiinistered European
Economic Community Special Action Credit in 1979. The most recent water supply
project (Credit No. 1059-NEP) was completed in 1988.
1.19     The objectives of the first three projects were similar in nature:  to
improve water supply and sanitation in the principal cities and to help the
institutional framework evolve.   By and large, the projects have produced
significant improvements in ster supply coverage and quality over the past
decade, but because of higher than forecasted population growth in the service
areas, a 24-hour supply has not been achieved except in Pokhara and Nepalgunj.
Addit.ionally, in the Kathmandu Valley water sources have been declining due to
mining of groundwater and upstream irrigation and lack of a water allocation
policy.  Water quality also remains a problem.   The sewerage components of the
projects were less successful, due in part to the technical difficulties of
integrating new sewers into the old dilapidated system; and, more importantly,
the difficulty of obtaining permission to cut .'-sphalted road surfaces for both
sewers and water supply.   The unwill.ngness of residents to pay for sewer
connections resulted in very few connect:ons, which further hampered the success
of the component.
1.20     Notwithstanding IDA's emphasis on institutional strengthening,  the
greatest shortcoming has been the poor institutional performance of NWSC's
predecessor agencies. In retrospect, and as discussed in the Project Performance
Aidit Reportsv for the three projects, IDA was overly optimistic as to what it
would take to turn the agency into a well-managed, financially viable utility,
taking account of political and institutional realities. Weaknesses in planning
and design of project components led to numerous adjustments during project
implementation. Work supervision and contract administration suffered due to
lack of adequate experience in these areas.  There appears also to have been
insufficient consultation at the planning stage with local town authorities and
the consuming public, as noted by HMG's Water Supply and Sewerage Service
Situation Study Committee (better known as the Pokhrel Commission) set up in 1987
to review performance under the three projects. The proposed project builds on
the lessons learned in these prior operations.
1.21     IDA has been Involved in the raral water supply and sanitation sector
only in institutional development activities, working with DWSS. As executing
agenc:r for UNDP, IDA has prepared:   (a) 68 rural water supply projects in
packL,;es for three development regions (NEP/79/032 subproject) for which
invesfiments were generated from bilateral and multilateral sources; and (b)
management information systems and technical support in project preparation for
DWSS (NEP/88/005), the outputs from which would provide an up-to-date data base
cn all 2,300 rural systems constructed over the past decade. In addition, the
data base would include information on reporting systems and personnel and stores
management capability.   IDA also assisted DWSS in the preparation of a rural
water supply project funded under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit 1379-NEP
(subproject 13). Appraisal of an IDA-financed rural water supply and sanitation
1/ Reference to PPAR No. 6506 dated November 1986 (Credits 470-NEP and
704-NEP), and PPAR No. 9158 dated November 1990 (Credit 1059-NEP).



project is tentatively scheduled during FY92. In addition, the UNDP-financed
Sector Development Team (RAS/86/160) continues to provide considerable inputs to
sector development activities, and it has also provided significant inputs to
preparation and appraisal of the project described in this document.
1.22     Environmental issues in each subsector would be addressed through IDA
credits. Environmental assessments, and minimization and mitigation measures are
being included as conditions of project lending, as appropriate. Specifically
in the water and sanitation sector, IDA is pursuing several environmental
initiatives. Discussions are underway regarding clean-up of the highly polluted
Bagmati river which drains the Kathmar.du Valley and also flows past the revered
Hindu Temple at Pashupatinath. In connection with the detailed feasibility study
for a new water source development from outside the Valley, HMG, assisted by IDA
and UNDP, conducted detailed environmental studies and impact assssments of the
selected option. Two recently completed studies on groundwater management and
Kathmandu drainage also addressed environmental issues.   Through the above
initiatives, IDA is ass..sting the water sector agencies to develop an awareness
of environmental issue and develop a sound basis for formulating procedures for
environmental assessments in future projects.
F. DONOR SUPPORT
1.23     In addition to the support provided by IDA as lead agency, UNDP and the
European Economic Community to the urban subsector, the O-erseas Development
Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom has also pr ided institutional
support in the fields of engineering, operation and maintendnce, and on-the-job
training during the implementation periods coinciding with the first and second
IDA-financed projects. GTZ has continued its support to Bhaktapur through leak
control and sewerage extensions. It has also expanded its activities to Dhulikel
and Barnepa. United Nations Children's Fund, ODA, Switzerland, Finland and the
ADB are also active in rural water supply and sanitation.   World Health
Organization assistance for the sector has emphasized planning, management and
training activities.
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT CONCEPT
2.01     The project grew out of the FYDP (para 1.13).  IDA appraised the first
five-year phase relating to urban water supply and sanitation rehabilitation and
selected about 53Z of the value of its components for the project. HMG, assisted
by IDA, has been seeking additional funding for the balance from other external
aid agencies,  and so far, it has received pledges from Japan and Norway for
about US$15 million and US$2.5 million equivalent, respectively.   Components
selected for IDA financing are not dependent on other donor participation. The
Phase I program will be reviewed annually in consultation with IDA, as part of
the annual review of the Operational Action Plan (para. 2.15). Agreement was
reached at negotiations that HMG and NWSC will consult IDA prior to revision,
alteration or modification of the strategies embodied in the IYDP.



- 8 -
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.02     The primary project objectives would be to:   (a) strengthen NWSC's
technical, managerial, financial and operations/maintenance capability; (b)
increase utilization of existing systems through rehabilitation and extensions;
and (c) improve public health through: (i) consumer education programs; and (ii)
improved quality and increased quantity of water to consumers.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.03     The proposed project focuses on rehabilitation,  primarily deferred
maintenance; minor extensions and improvements to water and sewer systems ta
achieve greater efficiency; and activities to achieve managerial, financial and
operational improvements. Project components are described in detail in Annex
3 and summarized below.
2.04     Project components include:
For NWSC as a whole:
(a) Management Support, Training, and Project Design and Supervision (NR9
304.4 million, US$10.1 million). A specialist management support team
to assist NWSC in improving management, operations and maintenance (NRs
93.6 million); a consumer education program to establish better
customer relations (NRs 15.6 million); t-.ining for all levels of NWSC
staff (NRs 39.1 million); consultant assistance for detailed design and
supervision of project components, and future project preparation (NRs
156.1 million).
For Kathmandu Valley Towns (three towns):
(b)  New  Source  Detailed Design  (NRs 119.5 million;  US$3.9 million).
Investigations, detailed design and bid document preparation for the
proposed future water source for Kathmandu Valley, subject to
demonstration of technical, financial and economic feasibility, and a
decision to proceed with implementation of the scheme.
(c) Water Supply Rehabilitation (NRs 735.6 million; US$24.3 millior.).
Rehabilitation of 28 tubewell installations including pumping and
electrical equipment; provision of eight new sells to counteract
declining  yields   (NRs  118.2  million);   rehabiiltation  of  the
distribution system including replacement of old and leaking
distribution and "spaghetti" type service mains, and repairs to ce-rice
reservoirs (NRs 316.9 million); meters, spares and a metering program
(NRs 43.5 million); protection of surface and spring sources, repairs
to intake structures, and mechanical and pumping equipment (NRs 80.8
million); water treatment plant rehabilitation including refurbishment
of  filters,  sedimentation  tanks,  lime  and  alum  dosing  plant,
chlori..ation plant and mechanical and electrical equipment (NRs 61.9
million);  leak detection and control p-,gram includ-',.  supply of
equipment (NRs 99.2 million); and limited new distribution mains (NRs
15.1 million).



- 9 -
(d) Groundwater Treatment (NRs 333.3 million; US$11.0 million). Two new
treatment plants to treat about 50 mld for iron (2.3-6.0 mg/i), ammonia
and manganese (World Health Organization standards recommend not more
than 0.3 mg/l of iron).
(e)  Rehabilitation of Sewer System, Sewer Connections and Sanitation (NR8
278.7 million; US$9.2 million). Rehabilitation of two sewage treatment
plants including pumping stations, repairs to ruptured pumping main,
interception of old combined sewers, sewer survey and network records
(NRs 141.3 million); sewer connection program to add about 10,000 new
connections (NRs 20.0 million) financing about 50% of the cost (NRs
2,000) of a sewer line to the p'lot boundary, as a grant; minor sewer
extensions to increase sewer utilization (NRs 87.4 million); and an on-
site sanitation program for over 15,000 toilets in unsewered areas (NRs
30.0 million), financing up to 50% of the cost (up to a maximum of NRs
2,000) of a twin-pit pour-flush toilet, as a grant.
(f) Central Facilities and Plant (NRs 105.6 million; US$3.5 million).
Vehicles, plant, minor equipment and office equipment (NRs 50.3
million); facilities including refurbishment of vehicle and plant
workshops, stores and laboratory facilities (NRs 31.6 million); and
pipeline repair material (NRs 23.7 million).
For Towns Outside Kathmandu Valley (nine towns):
(g) Water Supply Rehabilitation (NRs 175.1 million; US$5.8 million).
Rehabilitation and refurbishment of surface, tubewell and spring source
structures including mechanical and electrical equipment; construction
of a new intake at Pokhara to replace the temporary intake; protection
of transmission mains against landslide damage; quarters for operators
and guards; rehabilitation and/or replacement of transmission mains;
repairs to service reservoirs; repair/replacement of chlorination
plants; and distribution system rehabilitation to replace old and
leaking mains.
(h) Sanitation (NRs 48.1 million; US$1.6 million). An on-site sanitation
program to provide over 15,000 toilets, financing up to 50% of the cost
of a twin-pit pour-flush toilet, as a grant.
(i)  Facilities and Plant (NRs 43.8 million US$1.4 million).   Vehicles,
plant, minor equipment and office equipment, including refurbishment of
workshops and stores and pipeline repair material.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
2.05     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at NRs
2,144.3 million (US$71.0 million). The foreign exchange component is NRs 1,542.2
million (US$51.1 million), or 72% of project costs.   Taxes and duties are
estimated at NRs 25.8 million (US$0.8 million), or 1% of project costs.   A
summary of cost estimates is given in Table 2.1 below.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: SUMMIARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
ITEM             1--Rupees (million)--I  I----USS(MlIlion)--- IForeign  Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total Exchange Base
Cost
Technleal Assistance,
Training                  63.00  171.61  224.61  1.76   6.68   7.44    76    14.80
Consumer Education end
Community Participation    6.39   6.89   10.77  0.18   0.19   0.86    SO        0.69
KaGhmandu Valley Towns
New Source: Detailed
Design                    22.60  67.80   90.89  0.76   2.24   2.99    76        6.76
Rehabilitation
Water Supply          180.36 391.07  621.42  4.82  12.96  17.27    75    88.20
Sanitation             26.6e  78.87  102.22  0.85   2.64   8.86    76        6.61
Extension
Water Supply           68.08 189.09  262.12  2.09   6.26   9.36    76    16.05
Sanitation             24.87  74.61   99.48  0.82   2.47   8.29    76        6.83
Central Facilities
and Plant                 19.11  57.84   76.46  0.68   1.90   2.58    76        4.67
Towns Outside the
Kethmandu Valley
Facilities and Plant       15.84  15.84   81.88  0.62   0.52   1.06    60        2.02
Water Supply
Rehabilitation            68.86  68.86  128.72  2.10   2.10   4.20    60        8.07
Sanitation Improvements    17.42  17.42   84.85  0.58   0.68   1.15    50        2.22
TOTAL eASE COST           440.65 1180.18 1670.72 14.69  37.42  62.01    72   100.00
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES     44.26 112.s8  167.07  1.47   8.74   6.20    72    10.00
PRICE CONTINGENCIES       117.84 299.20  416.64  3.89   9.91  18.79    72    28.62
TOTAL PROJECT COST a/     602.12 1542.21  2144.88  19.94  51.07  71.00    72
a/ Including taxes and duties of NRE 25.8 million (US8O.8 million equivalent).
2.06      Base cost estimates are in January 1991 prices and are based on NWSC's
and its consultants' estimates to preliminary design of major components.
Estimates for plant, equipment and materials are based on recent quotations from
suppliers. Physical contingencies of 10? have been included for all components
except sewer connections, on-site sanitation and land. To provide for inflation
during project implementation, the following price escalation rates have been
used: for local expenditures, 10.5? for fiscal year 1991, 7.5? for 1992, 7? for
1993, 6.5Z for 1994 and 1995, and 6Z for 1996 to 1998; for foreign expenditures,
3.4? for 1991 to 1998.
Financing Plan
2.07      The proposed IDA credit of US$60.0 million would finance about 85? of
project costs, net of taxes and duties. At the request of HMG, UNDP has agreed
in principle to provide a grant of US$3.4 million to fund the management support
activities.   HHG will pass it on as a grant to NWSC.   The relevant project
documents for this grant are being processed. The credit would cover 100? of the



- 11 -
foreign exchange costs and about 452 of local costs.  HMG would pass US$23.0
million of the credit, mainly for water supply to NWSC under a subsidiary loan
agreement and the balance as a grant. HMG wills (a) enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement with NWSC; and (b) pass on such funds to NWSC on the following terms
irrespective of the underlying funding sources.  Loans:  92 per annum, to be
amortized over 19 years, including a four-year moratorium on principal
repayments. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement incorporating the above
lending terms would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.08     A loan/grant ratio of 50/50 for water supply components has been
determined after extensive analysis of affordable solutions to consumers' needs
and NWSC's ability to assume debt. Moreover, this ensures that NWSC has every
chance to begin business on a solid financial footing. Were all such funds to
be passed on as loans, NWSC would not be able to achieve the financial objectives
set for it by HMG [para 3.14(b)(i)-(iii)].   There are two possible ways to
finance the shortfalls. First if the capital costs are passed on as 1002 loan,
then HMG will have to provide annual revenue grants to cover the cash shortfall.
The second choice is for HMG to pass on the capital costs in a mix of grants and
loans based on NWSC's specific capacity to pay debt service from its revenue
base. HMG preferred the second choice administratively, which has been accepted
practice in similar water supply projects elsewhere in the region. A 100% grant
for sewerage/sanitation is justified because of (a) the limited investments to
be made; and (b) the need to promote sanitation for improved health and
environmental preservation. Funds for technical assistance and training have
traditionally been passed on as grants. HMG's equity contribution would also
assist the newly-created NWSC establish a firm financial footing.
Retroactive Financing
2.09     Retroactive financing not exceeding US$3.0 million, or 52 of the credit,
would be provided from June 1, 1990 for (a) final design (consultants, equipment
and surveys); (b) immediate work carried out by force account such as leak
detection and minor network extensions; and (c) procurement of equipment and
materials.
E. PROJECT IMPLE1ENTATION
Implementation Agency and Period
2.10     The project will be implemented by NWSC (see Chapter III).  NWSC will
employ consultants to design and supervise construction.   The implementation
period for the project is based on a seven-year construction period (Annex 4).
All economic and financial analyses are based on this profile. However, as the
project is programmed in HMG's Eighth Five-year Plan (1991-96), the fund
requirements to implement the project over a five-year period are also
illustrated in Annex 4. The implementation schedule is given in Annex 5.
Status of Preparation and Design Review
2.11     A Project Preparation Facility (PPF No. 593) of US$1.5 million was
granted to enable NWSC to retain consultants to undertake final engineering
design of: eistribution system rehabilitation; surface and groundwater source
rehabilitation; and new groundwater treatment works.   Final designs and bid
document preparation by NWSC's consultants for the first subprojects are expected



- 12 -
by about December 199'. Prequalification and selection of consultants have been
completed and signing of contracts is expected shortly. NWSC will be responsible
for managing the consultants and design of some of the works. However, part of
the first year's projects relating to meter rehabilitation, reduction of
unaccounted for wate., replacement of service connections and the sewer
connection and sanitation programs, would be ready for implementation by credit
effectiveness.   These would be within the capability of NWSC to prepare and
implement.    The  remainder  of  the  first  year's work will  be  ready  for
implementation by the end of 1991.
2.12     Detailed engineering designs would be prepared by consultants on a
continuous basis.   Reviews will be done by NWSC and IDA based on value
thresholds. IDA will review designs of subcomponents valued over US$2.0 million
prior to NWSC initiating bids.
2.13     The review would be done in two stages.  The first review would be of
the preliminary design,  specifications,  quantities and costs.   Apart from
maintaining quality control and achieving least cost solutions, it would ensure
that NWSC was fully involved in the evaluation process ar,d ensure designs and
specifications were appropriate for local conditions. The exercise would include
technical and financial reviews. The second review would be done when detailed
design and bid documents are completed. A brief report will be prepared by the
NWSC committee based on a format agreed between IDA and NWSC, and will serve as
a record of approval by NWSC of the designs, specifications and cost of the
relevant component.
2.14     Agreement was reached at negotiations that not later than December 31,
1991, a committee composed of senior managers responsible for water supply,
sewerage, planning, electrical and mechanical works, supplemented by local
consultants until sufficient capacity is developed within NWSC, will be set up
under the Senior Manager, Operation and Maintenance Wing of NWSC to conduct these
reviews.
Operational Action Plan
2.15     In addition to investments, a number of inter-related project activities
would be undertaken by HMG and NWSC with the aim of improving its operating
efficiency and financial viability within the context of the FYDP.   These
activities have been grouped into the Operational Action Plan (OAP) (Annex 6).
The components of the OAP and the timing of their implementation were agreed.
Agreement was also reached that progress of this plan will be reported in NWSC's
quarterly progress reports and the plan will be reviewed annually and updated in
consultation with IDA.
Land Acquisition
2.16     The two parcels of land totalling two hectares  required for the
construction, on a priority basis, of two water treatment plants in the Kathmandu
Valley have been identified and steps are being taken to acquire them as soon as
possible. Since the plots are currently undeveloped and are owned by a hotel and
the army, resettlement in the areas is not an issue. The rights to use the two
parcels of land for construction purposes would be required no later than
December 31, 1991 (see Annex 6).



- 13 -
Enviroamental Actions
2.17     During project preparation,  IDA identified the major environmental
issues and suggested alternative minimization and n.itigating measures.   The
project preparation consultants also studied these issues and incorporated
appropriate  solutions.    The  process  used  for  this  project  to  address
environmental issues has been satisfactory, and will be institutionalized within
NWSC.
2.18     As indicated in the OAP (Annex 6), the following activities would be
required as part of the project: (a) development of programs during detailed
project preparation to monitor impacts during constructJon and postconstruction
phases; (b) development of programs to monitor quality of ground and surface
water, wastewater and sewage treatment plant effluent; (c) NWSC's design
consultants to be engaged in the planning and designing of the project would be
required in their terms of reference to undertake preparation of environmental
assessments in respect of the proposed water treatment plants and the proposed
solution to treat effluent discharge from the old combined sewers, which NWSC
will use as models for preparation of environmental assessments for future
projects; and (d) NWSC will take necessary action (i.e., legal land acquisition
or wayleave agreements) to stop the illegal diversion of sewage to farms.
Procurement
2.19     Procurement arrangements proposed for the project are based on the
experience of the third IDA-financed project (Credit 1059-NEP). In the past,
better performance by NWSC's consultants, NWSC supervisory staff and local
contractors would have assured a higher quality product, more timely completion
and greater efficiency in procurement. Typical among the deficiencies under the
last project were: (a) award decisions dictated by price alone without regard
for technical considerations; (b) delays in reaching award decisions; (c)
weaknesses in specifications (e.g., nonstandard meters, unlined ductile iron
pipes, poor quality ferules and galvanized iron pipes); (d) inappropriate
equipment such as sophisticated chlorination equipment; (e) design and
investigation weaknesses such as in Dharan wells and Pokhara intake; (f) non-
procurement of essential equipment, spares and vehicles; and (g) weak supervision
of work and contract management resulting in poor quality, non-adherence to
specifications, non-rejection of obviously poor quality work, non-termination of
poorly performing or defaulting contractors, and failure to apply remedies
provided under the conditions of contract. NWSC's contractual problems were also
exacerbated by "influential" contractors.  The proposed project provides fort
(a) a design review process which will ensure procurement of appropriate
equipment; (b) adoption of standards and procedures for operations with resulting
improvements to specifications; (c) a contracts management expert in the
management team to oversee procurement and contract administration; and (d) the
use of large contracts to achieve quality and efficiency in procurement.
2.20     All major civil works contracts over US$1.0 million would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with World
Bank guidelines.   Contracts for the two groundwater treatment plants needed
urgently will be awarded on the basis of ICB turnkey contracts, and will include
commissioning and operation for twelve months. To the extent possible, civil
works and equipment contracts would be on the basis of "provide and lay" and
"supply and erect' respectively. The rehabilitation components comprise a range



- 14 -
of activities including repair and rehabilitation of tubewells and surface
sources, distribution systems, service connections, pumping stations and
reservoirs. New works include construction of tubewells and treatment plants.
The packages vary in value from about US$3 to US$10 million. Similar works would
be grouped in US$5-US$10 million packages. To attract the interest of reputable
international contractors, several packages will be grouped and offered in
contract packages ranging between US$10-20 million following prequalification.
Due to the specialist nature of some work items, the contract documents would
indicate that NWSC will accept qualified sub-contractors.  A special attempt
would be made to generate interest among contractors from the region through
advertising in local newspapers.   As a development objective, the potential
international contractors would be encouraged to use qualified local contractors
in joint ventures, or as sub-contractors in order to improve the latter's
construction skills.  A prerequisite for packaging of large contracts is the
completion of designs, cost estimates and bid docum,ents for all such works at
about the same time.
2.21     Other civil works and services contracts with an aggregate value of
US$2.0 million which are small and scattered may be procured under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. The works would include meter cleaning and
repair, activities connected with reduction of unaccounted for water, and water
and sewer connections.  NWSC may carry out works connected with reduction of
unaccounted for water and other minor works by force account (departmental
works).   The aggregate value of force account works would not exceed US$0.7
million.    The  local  procurement  procedures  have  been  reviewed  and  are
satisfactory to IDA. Standard bid documents for use in ICB and LCB contracts
have been being prepared.
2.22     Contracts for materials, electrical, mechanical and pumping plant valued
over US$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts of value between
US$50,000 and US$200,000 individually and aggregating not more than US$2.5
million, may be awarded under LCB procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
However, contracts for procurement of materials and equipment each of value not
exceeding US$50,000 and not exceeding US$0.5 million in aggregate, may be
procured on the basis of prudent shopping.
2.23     In  the  evaluation  of  bids  for  equipment  and  materials,  local
manufacturers participating in ICB would be given a preferential margin of 15?
of the c.i.f. costs of the competing imports, or the existing rates of customs
duty, whichever is lower. A preferential margin of 7.5X will be allowed for
local contractors participating in ICB for civil works contracts.
2.24     Agreement was  reached that all bidding packages  for civil works
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, and all bidding packages for plant,
equipment and materials estimated to cost US$50,000 or more, will be subject to
IDA's prior review. This review of procurement documentation would result in
coverage of about 90? of the total value of works contracts and about 50? of
goods contracts. It would involve tae review of about 20 contracts. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random postreview by IDA.
2.25     A list of contracts, method of procurement and proposed contract
packages is detailed in Annex 7.



- 15 -
2.26     Contracts for consultancy services would be awarded in accordance with
World Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursements
2.27     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed, against:
(a) 100% foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials, and 100% of local expenditures (ex factory) for locally
manufactured equipment and materials procured through ICB;
(b) 70% expenditures for equipment and materials procured through LCB or
through prudent shopping (quotations);
(c) 1002 of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures on contracts
for civil works, including turnkey contracts, awarded under ICB;
(d) 70% of expenditures on civil works contracts awarded under LCE, and on
force account works; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for management 3upport, technical assistance and
training.
2.28     Itemized statements of expenditures would be used for civil works
contracts less than US$200,000 equivalent, works carried out by force account,
equipment and materials contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent. Documentation
supporting those expenditures would be retained by NWSC and be made available to
IDA  supervision  missions.        All  contracts   for  consultant   services,
training/consumer education and civil works contracts above US$200,000, and
equipment and materials contracts above US$50,000, would be fully documented.
Special Account
2.29     To expedite  disbursements,  a Special Account with  an authorized
allocation of US$2.5 million (representing about four months of IDA-financed
expenditures) would be established in the Nepal Rastra Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Special Account would be used to finance all
eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time to time on receipt and
approval of withdrawal applications, supported by the required documentation.
2.30     A schedule of disbursements is attached as Annex 8.  Based on the
regional profile applicable to the sector, an eight year disbursement profile has
been used.
Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision
2.31     The progress of the project would be monitored by agreed performance and
program indicators to aid NWSC in controlling and improving the efficiency of its
operations. Progress reports would be prepared by NWSC quarterly. Agreement was
reached that the reports will be sent to IDA no later than eight weeks after the
end of each quarter. It is estimated that about 90 staff weeks of supervision
would be required during implementation of the project.



- 16 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
3.01     The NWSC was created in November 1989 by virtue of the NWSC Act, and
"notified" on February 26, 1990. tIWSC evolved out of earlier organisations, and
is now run by a General Manager who reports to a Board comprising representatives
of concerned ministries and two mayors.   It is divided into eight operating
departments  organized  on  a breakdown  of  functional  responsibilities.    A
description of NWSC and its powers is given in Annex 9. By virtue of the Act,
NWSC will have greater autonomy and authority compared to those of its
predecessor agencies. It will have the ability to revise and implement tariffs
and charges without HMG approval, and also to prosecute defaulters and terminate
services, if necessary. In the prevailing political context, however, complete
autonomy should not be expected. Agreement was reached that HMG will not amend,
suspend, abrogate or repeal the NWSC Act without prior consultation with IDA.
While the NWSC Act provides for NWSC to take over responsibility for additional
towns, and other areas which HMG may specify by a notification published in the
Nepal Gazette, NWSC confirmed it is presently responsible for water supply and
sanitation services in the three towns of the Kathmandu Valley and nine other
towns. HMG and NWSC agreed that expansion of NWSC's responsibilities would only
be made if it did not adversely affect NWSC's ability to implement the project,
or its financial position.
B. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
3.02     A main factor contributing to less than satisfactory performance by
NWSC's predecessors in their operations and maintenance has been the lack of
sufficient personnel with adequate experience in managing a water and sanitation
utility. Therc has been no recent formal training of middle and junior-level
staff, nor has enough on-the-job training been done to improve efficiency. As
a result, NWSC has not yet developed standard practices for operations, e.g.,
preventive maintenance, pipeline laying and maintenance, procedures for water and
sewer connections, water quality maintenance, treatment, and contract
supervision.    Although  operations  and  maintenance  activities  have  been
constrained by weak revenue generation, the infusion of additional funds would
not necessarily improve levels of service. Managerial improvements are essential
to develop NWSC's capacity to provide an improved level of service.   The
management team proposed under the project (UNDP-funded and executed by the
Office of Project Services) would help improve the above aspects, and signature
of a contract to engage such a team will be a condition of effectiveness.
3.03     NWSC charges about NRs 1,400 for access to a water connection (NRs 1,000
for construction and NRs 400 for deposit); yet the plumbing work must be carried
out by the consumer at his own cost. Similar high charges are made for sewer
connections. In the absence of tariff increases, these charges incorrectly came
to be viewed as a revenue source. This policy has proven counter-produZtive and
does not  serve the objectives  for which NWSC has been established.   At
negotiations, agreement was reached that, by December 31, 1991, NWSC will
implement revised water and sewer connection policies as well as procedures for
cutting roads for laying services, satisfactory to IDA.   Agreement was also
reached that HMG will facilitate NWSC requests to cut roads (para 1.19). A high
level committee has been established to coordinate road cutting requests by the
various HMG ministries and agencies including the Department of Roads and NWSC.



- 17 -
3.04     Plans of the utility networks have not been maintained routinely in the
past. Their incompleteness has often affected operations and maintenance. As
part of the SIMS project (para 1.14), the consultants have developed maps of the
water reticulation for Kathmandu and Lalitpur, which would be refined over the
next few years and then maintained.  A similar effort is required to develop up-
to-date sewer plans complete with pipe sizes, slopes and invert levels of
manholes.
3.05     Over the past two years, NWSC has made determined efforts to develop its
customer relations through opening of a complaints office and numerous paying
offices, exhibitions, publicity campaigns, and through a cost-sharing program to
construct sewers primarily to remove stormwater.  NWSC management is keen to
build on these activities through the consumer education and community
participation  component  in the project.    This  component would  encourage
involvement by local town authorities and consumers, particularly women, in the
planning of water and sewerage facilities. This would help address some of the
weaknesses identified _n previous IDA-financed projects (para 1.20).
3.06     Details of operational improvements covering procedures, leak detection
and control, the management support and consumer education and community
participation are detailed in Annex 10.
C. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
3.07     Current Situation. About 90? of operating revenues derive from the sale
of water. Cash collections covered only about 50? of working expenses in 1990
which were composed of wages and salaries (52?), power (201), chemicals (7?) and
miscellaneous expenses (212). The operating ratio (ratio of operating expenses
plus depreciation to revenue) was 2.4. In order to maintain cash balances and
avoid shortfalls, NWSC accumulated NRs 25.0 million of accounts payable for power
charges. NWSC has recently stepped up its efforts to collect current accounts,
obtaining 98? of nonpublic sector receivables in FY89. Billings for standposts
(NRs 4.0 million at end FY90) to be paid by NMG and water charges from government
agencies  (NRs  0.2  million)  remained  outstanding.    As  a  condition  of
effectiveness, (a) H1MG will be required to pay NWSC all outstanding amounts for
public standposts, and overdue bills of government agencies for water and
sewerage services; and (b) NWSC will be required to pay its outstanding power
charges.
3.08     NWSC's financial weakness has stemmed primarily from the low levels of
tariffs, which, until they were increased by 100? in December 1990, had not been
increased by HMG since 1981, and nonrecovery of public sector receivables. To
assist it through its cash crisis, HMG gave NWSC an operating subsidy of NRs 10
million in December 1990, and will give it NRs 22 million during FY92. From FY93
onwards, however, NWSC will be expected to meet all its operating expenses from
internally generated sources only, i.e., without further explicit cash subsidies
from Government. As NWSC was only meeting about 50? of its working expenses, the
resulting deficit forced it to make short-term savings, including accumulation
of bills, and at the cost of maintenance and quality of service. The result had
been  a  steady  deterioration  in  service  levels  and  growing  consumer
dissati,faction reflected in illegal connections, tampering with water meters to
avoid metered charges which were higher than for unmetered connections, and other
abuses of facilities by users.



- 18 -
3.09     Financial  ProJections.    Financial  statements  for NWSC,  based on
projected investments and operations, with detailed assumptions are given in
Annex  11 and summarized  in Table  3.1 below.   For purposes  of financial
projections, NWSC's operations have been partitioned into those inside and
outside the Kathmandu Valley on the grounds that there are considerable
differences in the costs of water supply; tariff increases have likewise been
varied between these two locations.
3.10     Revenues are projected to rise nearly six-fold over the project period
as more realistic tariffs are adopted, while operating expenses will rise over
two times. Sewerage charges represent only about 32 of NWSC's total revenues as:
(a) there are only a limited number (about 8,500) of sewer connections, all in
the Kathmandu area; and (b) emphasis in the project period will be placed on
rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure. Salaries and wages account for
just over 50X of NWSC's operating expenses, which is reasonable in the light of
the labor intensive aspects of its operations. During the project period, assets
will continue to be recorded at their historic costs, with no revaluation being
contemplated. Emphasis is being placed on cash generation, and following the
December 1990 tariff increase, NWSC is projected to maintain a healthy current
ratio of about 3.0. The debt to equity ratio is projected to decline from about
1.0 before the start of the project, to about 0.5 during the project period. The
projected ratio takes into account the limits of affordability which serviced
consumers can afford to finance water and sanitation infrastructure.



Table 3.1: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(NRs Millions)
Actual  Actual  Actual EstimatedProjected
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Revenue                      33.90   35.22   38.89   65.95  124.24  137.63   176.41   224.70  249.49  293.77  388.58
Operating Costs              41.93   47.60   89.57   89.15  107.74   119.69  181.7&  144.30  158.88  175.08  190.83
Operating Surplus            -8.0a  -12.38  -30.88  -23.20   16.50   17.94    44.68   80.40   90.61   118.69  177.73
Depreciation                 10.58   12.03   22.80   24.58   24.58   24.88   24.88    66.84   70.48   71.14   119.87
Interest                      3.J4    3.62    4.18    4.18    4.18    3.00    5.09    4.93   46.47   45.23   45.20
Surplus/deficit             -22.05  -27.93  -57.es  -51.98  -12.28   -9.94   14.71   19.83  -25.34    2.32   12.68
CD.pital Expenditure          0.00    0.00    8.00   73.71   193.96  738.10  1053.48  818.28  955.81   789.09   902.65
Outstanding Long-term       498.07  472.45  448.82  425.20  411.69  575.26  885.48  1118.11  1583.59  1879.41  2884.67                  c 
Debt
Working Ratio                  1.2      1.4      1.8     1.4      0.9      0.9      0.7     0.8      0.8      0.8      0.5
Operating Ratio                1.5      1.7      2.4     1.7      1.1      1.1      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.8      0.8
Collections X                   8S       8S      85       85       86       8S      87       87       87       87       87
, .   ,   ,   , "      .                       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



- 20 -
D. TARIFFS AND FINANCXAL COVENANTS
3.11     Tables 3.2. and 3.3 below show NWSC's tariffs prior to, and post
December 1990.
Table 3.2s TARIFFS FOR HETERUi CONNECTIONS
Rates for Additional
Size of                       Minimum Charge (NRs)   Units('O0O liters)(NRs)
Connection  Minimum Quantity   Pre-Dec.  Post Dec.    Pre-Dec.       Post-Dec.
(mm)     ('000 liters/month)  1990       1990           1990         1990
1S              10              7        15            1.20        2.50
20              27             28        60            1.20        2.50
25              50             56       115            1.20        2.50
40             140            168       340            1.20        2.50
50             235            280       565            1.20        2.50
75             700            840     1,685            1.20        2.50
100          1,400          1,680     3,360            1.20        2.50
Table 3.3'  TARIFFS FOR UNNETERED CONNECTIONS
Tariff (NRs)
Size of Connection (mm)                 Pre-Dec 1990    Post-Dec. 1990
15                                 13                 30
20                                 45                 90
25                                 90                180
40                                270                540
50                                450                900
75                              1,350             2,700
100                              2,800              5,600
The lower income households which do not ha-e a separate connection are served
by standposts and tanker trucks. It is HHG's policy to meet the cost of this
service on a monthly basis. Domestic water charges will still only average some
22 of consumers' disposable incomes which compares with levels of 3-52 or more
which may be found in sur;.c.anding countries, and it is expected that higher
commercial/industrial rates will encourage conservation.
3.12     The  recent  tariff  revisions will  go a considerable way  towards
overcoming NWSC's most pressing cash and revenue difficutlties. It falls well
short, however, of the increases which will be necessary to eliminate all
deficits and remove the pressure for subsidies. Although it was covenanted under
the second and third IDA-financed projects that sewerage charges were to be
increased from 252 to 502 of billed water charges, the increase was neveL
implemented, resulting in such revenues meeting only about 62 of the cost of the



- 21 -
service.  Furthermore, the sewerage charge is now applied only to houses that
have a sewer connection.
3.13     As a condition of effectiveness NWSC will raise:  (a) water revenues by
at least a further 502 through a tariff revision; and (b) sewerage rates and
charges to the equivalent of 50X of metered water charges for all consumers in
a sewered area whether or not they are connected to the sewer system.
3.14     Objectives to be aciieved during the project period are for a gradual
strengthening of NWSC to enable it to fund its operations.   In order to meet
these objectives, the following agreements were reached:
(a)  from HMG:
(i)   payment of bills presented by NWSC for standpost charges within
30 days;
(ii)  arrangements for the prompt payment of bills submitted by NWSC to
Government agencies for services rendered if not paid within 30
days;
(iii) an operating subsidy of NRs 22.0 million during FY92, to be paid
in quarterly installments commencing October 15, 1991.
(b) from NWSC:
ii)   commencing FY92, the generation of income (FY92 income to include
the operating subsidy referred to ill (a)(iii) of this paragraph)
to cover operating expenses (excluding depreciation) and working
capital requirements;
(ii)  commencing FY94, the generation of income to cover operating
expenses   (including   depreciation)   and   working   capital
requirements;
(iii) commencing FY96, the generation of income to cover operating
expenses, working capital requirements and the greater of
depreciation or debt service; and
(iv)  the opening of an interest bearing account into which would be
deposited any excess working capital to meet future debt service
obligations.
At negotiations, HMG also agreed that it will make every effort to provide timely
allocations of development funds to permit NWSC to carry out the project: such
allocations being agreed with IDA.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.15     Accounting and Management information Systems.   The present general
accounting system of NWSC is an accrual-based, manually operated one. While the
system is fundamentally sound, it is not oriented to providing up-to-date
management  information.   For example,  information on stock levels is not
generated often enough, or soon enough, leading to excess stock being held for



- 22 -
some items. Likewise, information on outstanding debts is not made available
until about six months after the end of the financial year--too late for
management to take timely action. To address these issues, the UNDP-financed
Management Information and Technical Support Project (NEP/88/005) has developed
a management information system, an inventory control program and a personnel
management program for both NWSC and DWSS.   In addition, NWSC has begun to
improve its accounting system by d&.vising and implementing an accounts code
structure which will enable it to: (a) provide more timely information on its
operations; and (b) computerize its accounts in due course. Computerization of
its consumers' data base system commenced under the SIMS project on a pilot
basis. During the project period this will be completed, enabling NWSC to keep
a much closer control on its debtors in the future. Its effectiveness, however,
depends on the rehabilitation of the high percentage of "out of order' meters.
Thereafter, in a phased manner, NWSC will computerize its billings.   In the
meantime, the manual billing procedure will be improved through, inter alia,
advising consumers regularly of their arrears, as well as, current dues.
3.16     An internal audit cell, reporting directly to the General Manager was
established in 1989. This has enhanced financial and budgetary discipline and
expedited the auditing of the accounts and financial statements of NWSC by its
external auditors. Under the project, the internal audit would be expanded to
cover meter reading and billing.
3.17     The records, accounts and financial statements of NWSC and the Special
Account will be audited annually.   Audits would be conducted by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Agreement was reached that audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within twelve months of the end of each fiscal year. However,
NWSC will submit unaudited accounts to IDA within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. In addition, a separate audit opinion within the annual audit would
be given for IDA reimbursements made through the statement of expenditures, to
certify that the underlying data fully support these requests.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.01     The project will deliver significant environmental benefits through the
provision of safe piped water, improved wastewater disposal, reduction in
pollution levels in rivers, an increased population hooked up to sewers (10,000
new connections) and introduction of a program to provide on-site sanitation
(30,000 units). These measures would improve personal and household hygiene and
convenience, improve sanitary conditions and aesthetics, reduce odor and disease
vectors and decrease flooding. Surface and groundwater quality will be improved
through improved treatment facilities. Health and quality of life will improve
overall, though these cannot be quantified. Despite the favorable benefits, some
components could have adverse environmental impacts if they are improperly
designed or implemented.  Potential adverse environmental impacts and mLnimizing
and mitigating measures are described in Annex 12. Measures adopted under the
project to improve environmental quality and minimize adverse impacts include
improved water and sewage treatment facilities, prevention of river pollution
(through repair of a ruptured sewer and diversion of effluent from combined
sewers to treatmenc plants), improved sanitation through sewer connections and



- 23 -
sanitation programs and water and effluent monitoring (see also para 2.18). In
view of the above, the adverse environmental impacts would be minimal.
B. BENEFITS FOR THE URBAN POOR
4.02     Nepal is currently one of the least urbanized countries in the world,
but turban growth--at over 8% per annum--is the highest in South Asia; and some
Terai towns are growing at 12X per annum, albeit from a low base. The future
will clearly see a continuing and rapid shift towards urbanization, with
consequent shifts for urban poverty and unemployment. While firm data on urban
per capita income is not available, national statistics indicate that income is
about US$170 per capita, with little if any improvement expected soon. National
Planning Commission estimates indicate that about 40% of the population live in
poverty. About 35% of project costs would directly benefit the poor. The urban
poor will also benefit indirectly from general improvements in quality, pressure
and distribution of water supply at standpost outlets and low cost sanitation
investments.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.03     The first phase of the FYDP is primarily intended to strengthen NWSC as
an institution in preparation for the implementation of the subsequent phases
which include emphasis on sanitation and development if a source of water for
Greater Kathmandu from outside the Kathmandu Valley as a priority. In addition
to enhanced management, planning and technical capabilities, the first phase
would lead to significant improvements in NWSC's asset utilization and bring them
into full and productive use.  The immediate impacts would be: (a) increased
quantity and reliability of water supply from rehabilitation of existing sources
and reductions in leakage and other losses; (b) improved water quality as a
result of treatment, rehabilitation and sanitation components, leading to better
public health, greater consumer acceptance of the product and reduced mainte:nance
of pipes, meters and equipment; (c) reduced costs of water supply arising from
project activities, and efficiency improvements expected from technical
assistance, training and enhanced central facilities; (d) more efficient use of
water as a consequence of water systems rehabilitation, consumer education
programs and reductions in illegal connections; (e) more equitable use of water,
stemming from new distribution systems and improved supply; and (f) improved
utilization of existing assets and facilities, particularly sewers and treatment
works.
4.04     Most components of the first phase of the FYDP would contribute to each
of the above impacts. Many of the benefits, such as improvements in health from
cleaner water and better sanitation, or even the gains from improved distribution
of water among consumers, are difficult to quantify. The weaknesses in data on
receipts and costs also introduce substantial uncertainties into the estimates
which have been carried out on those quantifiable benefits and costs associated
with increases in supply of water to consumers. The analysis (Annex 13) has been
confined to benefits of incremental water supply, and has been done on the basis
of program rather thait project expenditures, because there are complementarities
between the two.



- 24 -
4.05     Costs.  The elements which contribute to increasing water available to
consumers comprise groundwater rehabilitation, rehabilitation of distribution
systems and leakage control, and additional groundwater supplies. These items
come to 46% of the programmed expenditures in the first five years. (The project
expenditures on these components come to about 31Z of the total project amount.
The IDA-financed project as a whole would finance about 53? of the first five-
year program expenditures.) All costs have been valued in 1991 border prices.
Given the standard conversion factor for Nepal of 0.9, investment costs in border
prices come to 0.97 of their financial cost, and unit operating costs inside the
Kathmandu Valley and outside the Kathmandu Valley, respectively, come to 0.94 and
0.92 of financial cost. Incremental operating costs have been estimated at the
average variable cost of supply per cubic meter for existing supply in 1990
(excluding the NWSC Board expenses, which would not vary with supply and
excluding 252 of labor cost to eliminate the effect of overstaffing).   This
imparts some upward bias to operating costs, as the supply increases under the
project could be achieved without proportional increases in NWSC staff. On the
other hand, no specific allowance has been made for later replacements of
equipment or rising maintenance charges.
4.06     Benefits. The starting point for estimating the benefits of incremental
water consumed was the average rewenue per cubic meter of water consumed,
weighted by the standard conversion factor to express it in 1990 border prices.
Revenues were based on actual receipts per cxbic meter in 1990, increased by 80S
to reflect the tariff increase actually implemented in December 1990, the
additional 502 increase expected in 1991 before effectiveness and discounted at
1990 levels at the inflation rate of 10.52. Water receipts understate benefits,
because the incremental supply would substitute for more expensive alternative
sources for many consumers. Moreover, for the majority of consumers of piped
water who face a rising block rate, average expenditures understate marginal
valuations. Data are unavailable to permit a detailed estimation of benefits for
different consumers. An indication of possible magnitudes is, however, implied
by the observation that consumers served by water tankers in Kathmandu in 1989
paid about NRs 57 per cubic meter. This compares with marginal rates for piped
water, after the above tariff increases, of NRs 3.75 to NRs 9 per cubic meter,
and average tariffs of NRs 2.76/M3. For these consumers, therefore, the value
of incremental water consumed when connections are made would come to about NRs
30 to 33 per cubic meter (assuming a straight line demand curve), or six times
to fifteen times the marginal price of water.   In addition, the economy would
save an economic cost of NRs 32 per cubic meter from the switch of tankers to
piped supply.   The base estimate assumes the economic benefit associated with
incremental water consumption at three times the average revenue (average revenue
in 1990 border prices of NRs 2.15 per cubic meter inside the Valley, and NRs 2.44
outside the Valley).



- 25 -
4.07     Economic Rates of Return (ERRs).  Flows of benefits and costs were
forecast to the year 2030.   It will be noted from Table 4.1 below that the
base case ERR is 9.52 compared to the estimated opportunity cost of capital of
102. The lower ERR on works outside the Kathmandu Valley is due to the fact that
a larger proportion of the works there would increase production as contrasted
with increasing effective supply to consumers through improving efficiency of
existing plant. This is further reflected by the average incremental cost of
water consumed being about twice as high outside as inside the Valley, whereas
estimated benefits per unit are only marginally higher.  Irrespective of the
likely conservatism of the benefit estimates as described above, the modesty of
these rates of return reinforces the impetus given by the financial situation to
carefully exploring means for meeting needs for water and sanitation in a least-
cost fashion.   It should also be recalled that major project impacts--and
benefits--are unquantifiable, and would lie in improving sanitation and health
of rapidly rising urban populations.
Table 4.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (Z)
Towns Inside the   Towns Outside the
Kathmandu Valley    Kathmandu Valley    Average
Base case:
Benefits = 3002 of Receipts        15.8                   8.1            9.5
Sensitivity:
Benefits - 2002 of Receipts         9.0                   3.8            4.8
Benefits = 4002 of Receipts        23.3                  11.8           14.0
Delay of one year in benefits      13.5                    7.4           8.5
Investment Costs:
+10X                          14.0                   7.2            8.5
+202                          12.6                   6.4            7.6
-102                          18.0                   9.2           10.8
-202                          20.9                  10.5           12.4
2/  In the case of the supply to the Kathmandu Valley, this procedure may be
questioned as some of the works on new boreholes and renovations of existing
boreholes (costing about NRs 118 million) may be replaced in the medium term
by major new sources. These sources would cost on the order of NRs 4,755
million, and take over five years to construct. With a present value of
about NRs 3,500 million, each year of deferral of these source works is
worth about NRs 35 million in interest alone; this is approximately equal to
total operating costs of NWSC in supplying water and sanitation services in
the Valley.   Benefits of such deferral have not been included in the
economic analysis for the present project.  A more comprehensive benefit
estimate for the present project would be to forecast unit benefits of water
to reflect the rising scarcity of water to the point at which the major new
source is justified and comes on stream, after which the benefits of the
present project would be reduced by the fall in the supply increments no
longer needed.   However,  these figures are not known with sufficient
reliability to justify their use here.



- 26 -
D. RISKS AND SAFEGUARDS
4.08     The   project   involves   appropriate   technology   concentrating   on
rehabilitation, upgrading and augmentation of existing facilities. New facilities
(i.e., treatment plants) will be provided in accessible locations with well known
and  understood  ground  conditions.    To  ensure  sound  technical  design  and
supervision, NWSC will engage consultants and will also be supported by a
management support team. With these safeguards, the project would be well within
its technical and administrative capability to implement.
4.09     A first risk is that HMG and NWSC will deviate from agreed operational and
financial targets, especially tariff increases.   However, HMG and NWSC are now
aware that their ambitious plans for the sector are simply unattainable in the
absence of greatly increased resource mobilization.   This risk is therefore
containable. Further is the risk that HMG and NWSC may go ahead with investment
in the future water supply project for Kathmandu with assistance from other donors
prior  to all  rehabilitation  being  carried  out.    However,  as most  of the
rehabilitation works in the Kathmandu Valley towns are included in the first phase
FYDP, and the unlikely prospect of one donor financing this major investment, the
risk is small and no special safeguards are considered necessary.
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)  FYDP:  HMG and NWSC would consult IDA prior to revision, alteration or
modification of the strategies embodied in the FYDP (para. 2.01);
(b)  Design Review:  not later than December 31, 1991, NWSC would set up a
committee to review designs (2.14);
(c)  Operational Action Plan:   progress in implementing the OAP would be
reported quarterly and updated annually (para. 2.15);
(d)  Procurement:  bidding packages above specified limits would be subject to
review by IDA (para. 2.24);
(e)  NWSC Act:  HMG would not amend, suspend, abrogate or repeal the NWSC Act
without prior consultation with IDA (para. 3.01);
(f)  NWSC  Responsibilities:    HMG  and  NWSC  would  only  expand  NWSC's
responsibilities if they did not adversely affect NWSC's financial
condition and ability to implement the project and abide by the legal
undertakings therein (para. 3.01);
(g)  Revised Water and Sewer Connection Policies:  by December 31, 1991 NWSC
would implement revised water and sewer connection policies and procedures
for cutting roads, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.03);



- 27 _
(h)  Road Cutting:  HMG would facilitate NWSC requests to cut roads (para.
3.03);
(i)  Standpost Charges:  HMG would pay within 30 days NWSC bills for standpost
charges (para. 3.14 (a)(i)];
(j)  Arrears of Government Agencies:  HMG would arrange for the prompt payment
of bills submitted by NWSC to Government agencies (para. 3.14 (a)(ii)];
(k)  Operating Subsidy for FY92:  HMG would provide NWSC with an operating
subsidy of NRs 22.0 million during FY92 [para. 3.14(a)(iii)3;
(1)  Financial Objectives:
(i)   commencing FY92, NWSC would meet operating expenses  (excluding
depreciation) and working capital requirements [para. 3.14 (b)(i)];
(ii)  commencing FY94, NWSC would cover operating expenses (including
depreciation) and working capital requirements (para. 3.14
(b)(ii)];
(iii) commencing FY96, NWSC would cover operating expenses, working
capital requirements and the greater of depreciation or debt
service (para. 3.14 (b)(iii)l;
(m)  Interest Bearing Account:  NWSC would open an interest bearing account
(para. 3.14 (b)(iv)l;
(n)  Funding Requirements: Eh4G would provide timely allocations of development
funds to NWSC (para. 3.14); and
(o)  Audits:  NWSC's accounts and the Special Account would bf% audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports submitted to
IDA within 12 months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.17).
5.02     The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  Subsidiary Loan Agreement:  HMG to execute a subsidiary loan agreement
with NWSC to pass on US$23.0 million to NWSC on the following terms
irrespective of the underlying funding sources: loans, 9? per annum, to
be amortized over 19 years, including a four-year moratorium or. principal
repayments (para 2.07);
(b)  Management Support:   signature of a contract for engagement of the
management support team (para 3.02);
(c)  Settlement of Arrears:   HMMG will pay NWSC all outstanding amounts for
public standposts, and overdue bills of government agencies for water and
sewerage services; and NWSC will pay its outstanding power charges (para
3.07); and



- 28 _
(d) Tariffs and Charges: NWSC will raise water revenues by at least a further
50o through a tariff revision and sewerage rates and charges to the
equivalent of 50X of metered water charges for all consumers in a se.wered
area whether or not they are connected to the sewer system (para 3.13).
Recommendation
5.03     On the basis of the above conditions and agreements, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 45.5 million (US$60 million equivalent) to the
Kingdom of Nepal, on standard terms with 40 years maturity.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table l PROJECT TOWNS: POPULATION PROJECTIONS
Growth Rate (%)    1989         1995       2000        2005
Kathmandu Valley Towns
Kathmandu                       4.7        338,800    426,300    536,300    670,000
Lalitpur                        4.7        101,200    127,300    169,200    200,000
Bhaktapur                       2.7         52,000      59,500      68,000     77,700
Subtotal                              492,000    613,100    773,500    947,700
Towns Outside the
Kathmandu Valley
Pokhara                         7.5         83,200    128,400    184,300    264,600
Biratnagar                      8.0        173,100    274,800    403,700    593,200
Birgunj                       12.0         108,100    213,300    375,900    662,400
Bhairahawa                      6.5         51,500      75,100    103,000    141,100
Butwal                          7.0         38,800      58,200      81,700    114,600
Dharan                          8.0         78,000    123,800    181,900    267,300
Hetauda                        8.0          64,000    102,200    150,200    220,600
Janakpur                      10.0          74,600    132,100    212,800    342,700
Nepalgunj                       6.0         54,200      76,900    102,900    137,200
Subtotal                              725,500  1,184,800  1,796,400  2,743,700
GRAND TOTAL                         1,217,500  1,797,900  2,569,900  3,691,400
Note: Based  on  the  projections  used  by  the  consultants  for  the  Service
Improvements and Management Support (SIMS) Project of NWSC.



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REAILITATION  PROJECT
Table 2s  TOWNS OUTSIDE THE KATMANDU VALLEY: WATER SUPPLY PRODUCTION AND COVERAGE
Pokhara  B8ratnagar  8;rgunj  Ohairahawa  Butwal       Oharan       Hetauda     Janakpur      Nepalgunj
1989      1989       1989       1989       1989       1989          1989        1989           1989
1.  Total population                     83,200    173,100   108,100    61,600    38,800       76,000         64,400         75,600      64,200
2. Population served                     69,000     30,900    81,700      9,900    32,600      74,700         16,500         11,000 /a   17,100
8. Population served (X)                     83          18        29         19        84          9             24             1S          32
4. Population served:
(a) by house connection             44,800      28,500    27,200      7,700    13,900      27,100         16,000         7,000       10,300
(b) by standpost                    24,200       2,400     4,500      2,200    18,700      47,600            600         4,000        6,800
S.  Water demand (mid)                    12.48           7         8      2.94       4.23       9.68           3.68           2.14        2.98
6. Unaccounted for (mId)                   S 17           a         4       1.88      1.48        3.87          1.61           1.06          135
7.  Unaccounted for water (%)                42         43         S1        63         3S         40             45             49          45
8.  Per capita consumption                  10S         130       122        109        8S          78           127             99           95            
9. Average production capacity
Dry     Wet     Dry      Wet
Season  Season  Season  Season
(a) existing
(i) surface water (aId)          12.46          --        --         --      2.32      4.60             1.64  2.74      --           --
(ii) groundwater (ald)                         7.03      7.97       2.34      0.99      4.64             0.70  0.70   2.15          2.98
(b) new capacity
(1) surface water (mid)          15.24          --        --         --      0.92 /b  0.90    13.2 /b    --  0.30       --           --
(ii) groundwater (aId)                         4.41 /b   5.41 /S   6.02       3.62 /b  1.33 IL  --       3.05  3.05   4.36 /b       2.46
10. Total production capacity (aid) IS  27.70        11.44      13.38      8.38       7.895    11.7 /d 1 .2 /e  5.29  6.79   6.S1          6.42
/a   Population served (1989) by other sources such as private wells are:  Pokhara - 0; Biratnagar - 114,900; Birgunj - 48,300; Bhairehawa -
26,700; Butsal - 0; Dharan -0; Hetauda - 27,000; Janakpur - 52,400 and Nepaigunj - 31,700.
'b   Rehabilitation of existing sources.
/S    Including standby capacity.                                                                                                                         o
/d    Rehabilitstion of Bhalu (o.1 mId) and Seoti Khola (0.4 mId) sources would add an estimated supply of about 0.5 mid (mmin.). 
/e    Expected wet season yield from all surface sources after rehabilitation.



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 3: TOWNS OUTSIDE THE KATHMANDU VALLEY: FINANCES (1989)
Pokhare  Biratnegar  Birgunj  Shoirehewe  Butwel  Dheren   Hetouda   Janakpur   Nopelgunj
Expenditure (NRs '000)   2,3892       2,200     1,662        Bo8       1,869      260      1,087       860       1,072
Revenue (NRs '000)         2,488      1,800     1,416        682         797      100        980       8oo         879
Deficit (NRs '000)         (+.6)        400        246       278         672      1SO        167       660         693
Revenue as %
of Expenditure             102         81        86         66          68       40         86       85           85
Table 4: STAFFING AND OPERATIONS
Pokhara  Birstnegar  Birgunj Ohairahswa  Butwal   Dhersn   Hetaude   Janekpur   NepalgunJ
Pop'n served (1989)   69,000    30,900        31,700   9,900       82,600   74,700    165600    11,000        17,100
Existing staff (1989)    119           82         68       45          68       101         62        62          74
Pop'n served/staff         680        877        604      220         517       740        260       176         281



NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
Water Demand Forecasts for Kathmandu and Lafltpur
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
E00
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
3                                                     .0
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                         LO buge f IwIcast
5~~~5
-------_--84P  30>1dat                 
so        so        so                                         I|t X
OR           I
U                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1985      1590       1995      2000       2005       2010      2016       2020      2025       2030   o
Year                                          EK/w4ltax
V



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
FifteeaYeD evelopmentProgra
ESTDIVTE   <----------Annual d        9ur0ent  as r     ef tol cost in financial year ----------------------------------->
Project details              NRs million  1990   1991   1992   1998   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004  2005
K 1  Wanageent support A TAjDee/Su       257.7      b     15    15      15      15    15    20
K 2   Mm Source Detailed Deign            94.2            80    55      15
K 3   Reab. oaf ground water sources      89.2            15    25      80     20      10
K 4   DetributionSystem   1              278.6            20     16     15      10    10    10       10     :0
K 5  Hater rsbsbilitatien a mapply        82.6            40    20      20      10    10
K 6   Surface Sourcoo Rehabilitation      61.0           S3      40     25       5
K 7  Swerage RbabiIlitation              106.5            20    80    80        10    10
Kt 8   Reb. af eoater treatment work      46.6            80    40      25       5
K 9   Conjunctive ose                      0.0            25    25      80      10    10
K 10 Measter trebtent works              570.9             a      8      9       9     10     10     10     10    10      10      6
K 11  Le.kao   controi                     66 9           12    18    14        14    14      14     14
K 12 Now dstribution   1                 75.9                           5       S      5     15     15     15    10    10       10      10
K 13  Sewerage extensio                  290.1            20    20      20      20    20
K 14 Contrat facilities. plant/reb.      204.2            15    16       b       5     IS    25      is      5
K 15 Training 9 1                         2S.0            10    20      2S      25    20
K 16 Consumer education 9 1               28.0            20    20      20      20     20
K 17 TA/Dee/Sup 9 2 & 3                   84.0                                                10     10     10    10    10    10         10    10    10       10
K 18  Ham Source construction           4868.4                            1      2      6     13    22      28     16      6      6
K 19 NMm Source Supervision              802.0                            1      2      6     13     22     28     16      6      6
K 20 Distribution rehab. 9 2             759.1                                                              10    1S      15    20      20    20
K 21  Meter supply A connect.# 2  8      14 5.1                                               10     10     10    10    10       10      10    10    10       10
K 22 Maw trunk mine A distrib. e 2       481.a                                                                      5      5     10     20    20      20      20
K 23 Training # 2                         28.0                                                20     20     20     20    20
K 24 Coneumer education 9 2               28.0                                                20     20     20    20    20
K 25 Seageo   t   ant  3                 104.2                                                                                                 30      40     30
K 26  Sewers eutension  3               1449.8                                                                                   20     25     25      25      S
K 27 Nb- distributien  3                 572.4                                                                                   20     20      20     20     20
K 28 Training 9 3                         28.0                                                                                   20     20      20     20     20
x 29 Consumer education 9 3               28.0                                                                                   20     20      20     2      20
Kathimdu sub-total  Rea m;llion        10753.8
OVI  Water eupply rehabilitation         161.4            20    50      25       5
OV2  Water supply I 1                   1872.5             2     1o     10      10     23    25      20
OvS  water sapply 9 2                   1140.0                                                                     10     16    8D      25     20
Y4   Water supply   a 3                 8569.9                                                                                   20     20     25    20       15
Ws   Snitation/sewerage   1              28S.9            20    20      20     20      20
OV6  Sanitationfewerage   2              116.7                                                20     20     20    20      20
BV7  Sanitation/mewerage   3             280.8                                                                                   20     20    25    20        iS
Outside Valley sub-total .Ra million    7380.2
GRUN TOTAL Mea m ll ion                18134.0
qAI  TOTAL US  meillion                  647.6
Caah Flow in XRa million                     18      3   729    670    602   1038   1869   1681  1S71   1182    714  2073   1812   1971   1409   916
S    ". MM  budget                          0.1   2.9    4.8    4.0    8.8    6.2    5.5    6.5    6.8    4.S    2.9    5.6    4.9    5.8   8.8    2.5
AV 15 1991/199       4.1893        AV S 1996/2000       5. 1419       AV 3 2001/2005        4.4182
Esponditure in Phams  (NQ   million)                     858                                 64i                                       61e1
Expenditure in Phases (WS#  million)                      126                                 29                                        292
0 0
0 



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION .IIABILITATION PROJECT
PHASE 1 OF THE FIFTEEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
January 1990 Prices
Of Which IDA Project
Phase I,     IDA         as Z
COMPONENT                           FYDP      Project    FYDP
--(US$ Millions)--
(a)   Management Support to NWSC, including
training and consumer education            9.4          9.4         100
(b)   Water Supply Rehabilitation               75.9         43.7          58
(i)   KathmandulLalitpur                  33.4         33.4        100
(ii)  Other Towns                         42.5         10.3         24
(C)   Sewerage/Sanitation Rehabilitation        22.3         10.2          46
(i)   Kathmandu/Lalitpur                  1?.8          8.7         63
(ii)  Other Towns                          8.5          1.5         18
(d)   Future Project Preparation                 3.4          3.4         100
(e)   Outside the Valley New Source Supply    15.3            --_ 
126.3        66.7          53



35 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 15
lIEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
All costs indicated are in  milliun  Nepal  Rupees and include physical and
price contingencies.
A. FOR NWSC AS A WHOLE
Management Support and Technical Assistance for Design and Supervision
(MRs 249.7 million)
1.       Management Support (NRs 93.6 million).    The level of services in
all towns under NWSC are still far from adequate and covers only about 70
percent of the urban population.    The  Government's target to supply safe
piped water to most of the urban population and to introduce qewerage
systems  or  other  forms  of   sanitation  in  the  towns  requires  large
investments.    NWSC   requires   financial,   managerial  and  operational
assistance to enable it to undertake large investments, effectively operate
and  maintain   services   and   to   effectively   manage  the  increasing
responsibilities.    The   management   support   component        covers  the
requirements of both Greater Kathmandu and towns outside the Valley.
2.       Management  and  technical   assistance   would   be  provided  by
specialists to improve NWSC staff capabilities in utility management,
financial, operational, maintenance  and  personnel  management.   The team
would comprise specialists in utility management, finance and management,
revenue and customer accounts, organization and human resources, water and
sewerage  operations,   management   information   systems,  training,  and
mechanical and electrical engineering. The experts would work side by side
with NWSC staff and would even have some line responsibilities, to the
extent possible. The management support program would emphasize on-the-job
training for NWSC staff, and would affect senior, middle and junior level
management. The technical specialists in operations and maintenance would,
in addition, impart on-the-job training to plant operators and other
artisans. The specialists would have first-hand experience in utility
operations.    The  management  support,   on   the  lines  of  a  twinning
arrangement, would cover a four-year period with a core group working full
time for the first two years and returning at specific intervals to
continue the support. Other short term specialists would be deployed as
required.
3.       UNDP has agreed in principle  to  finance  up to US$3.1 million of
the cost of the component, adequate for the first two years operation. The
requisite project documents are currently being processed by UNDP.
4.       Technical  Assistance  for  Design   and  Supervision  (NRs  156.1
million).   This  item  provides  for  design  and  supervision  of project
components  by  consultants,  and   special   studies  and  future  project
preparation.



- 36 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 15
B. FOR KATID4ADU VALLEY TOWNS
New Source Detailed Designs (NRs 119.5 million)
5.       A pre-feasibility study  for  a  future  water  source for Greater
Kathmandu was completed in 1988, following which two promising sources were
identified.   Following  an  environmental  impact  assessment  of  the two
options, a detailed feasibility study for the most promising source
(Melamchi River) is underway, and  is scheduled for completion by end-1991.
All of the above studies are being done with UNDP funds. Following
agreement of the detailed feasibility study recommendations and a decision
to  proceed,  the  project   will   finance  detailed  engineering  design,
preparation of tender documents and pre-qualification of tenderers for
construction and supply of mechanical and electrical equipment for the
Melamchi project including access roads.   If the one-stage construction of
the Melamchi scheme is recommended, there are considerable advantages in
constructing the access roads to the intake site from Melamchi Pul Bazaar,
in advance of letting contracts for tunnels, sedimentation tanks, treatment
works, balancing reservoir and pumping  station.   In this event the design
of access roads would be advanced.
6.       The development of the above source would  take up to 8 years.  In
the meantime use of groundwater  would  continue, and a well rehabilitation
program is included under the  proposed  project.   Given the incidences of
well collapses, clogging, poor design, etc., it is proposed that a study be
undertaken prior to  any  well  design.    The  matters  to be investigated
include reasons for poor output  from  wells,  an examination and report on
the mechanical and electrical systems, and the location of new and
replacement wells, including a  test  drilling  program.  The project would
finance the above described study, estimated to cost about US$100,000.
Wells: Rew and Rehabilitation (MRs 118.2 million)
7.       The present well yield is deteriorating; some of this reduction is
due to falling groundwater levels and some is resulting from a combination
of  factors  including  (a)  poor  initial  well  development,  (b) clogged
screens, (c) excessive sand  discharge,  and  (d) electrical and mechanical
defects. This component includes the following:
(a) provision of 8 new wells (NRs 65.0 million) to counteract the
declining yield of the existing wells, which will persist even
after rehabilitation, due to depletion of the aquifer;
(b)  rehabilitation of  28  wells  (NRs  32.7  million)  having a total
nominal  capacity  of  53.9  mld  including  the  provision  of  3
replacement wells having a nominal  capacity  of 2.5 mld for wells
Pharping I, Bansbari I, and Dhobi Khola VI (Bansbari I well
vandalized). The rehabilitation work will comprise (i) bailing,
surging and air lifting, (ii) chloridation, and (iii) pump tests.
Some wells will require mechanical scrubbing, oxidizing, hydraulic
jetting and dozing with polyphosphate; and
4



- 37-                             Annex 3
Page 3 of 15
(c)  provision  of  spares  and  well  monitoring  equipment  (NRs 20.5
million) to provide a record of well drawdown, flow and pump
operating times, including a television camera.
Rehabilitation of Distribution Systems (NRe 316.9 million)
8.       The existing systems suffer  from the following principal defects:
(a) inadequate coverage by distribution mains, (b) distribution mains too
small and inadequate to serve all the consumers, resulting in low pressures
and  lack  of  supply,  (c)   the   existence  of  multiple  service  lines
("spaghetti" arrangements) at very shallow depths, (d) poor initial
construction and selection of materials, for service connections in
particular ferules, and the method of tapping of pipes, and (e) reservoir
losses. The rehabilitation program will provide new distribution mains of
adequate size (minimum 100 mm diameter), new service pipes of suitable
materials (polyethylene or equivalent) between consumer's properties and
the new distribution main, and will include repair of reservoirs.
Meter Rehabilitation and Supply (NRs 43.5 million)
9.       The meter testing and repair aspect  of NWSC operations need to be
greatly improved to increase customer confidence and improve revenue
collection  by  reducing  the  number  of  meters  out  of  order.    Until
groundwater treatment is completed in about two years, a program to clean
meters about bi-monthly will  be  commenced.    Meters would be removed for
testing about every four years, replaced with a refurbished or new meter.
The database/computer billing  system will  be    programmed  to suit this
procedure.  Meter specifications would be drawn up assuming an average life
of 20 years.   The  proposed  component  would comprise (a) improvements to
meter testing and repair facilities, (b) supply of new meters, (c) metering
programs, and (d) repairs for existing meters (Kent and Ningbo meters).
10.      The present repair and testing facility at Maharajgunj consists of
3 test rigs, which is considered adequate for the present. A new meter
repair room, rehabilitation of the existing building and procurement of
spares for the test rigs have been provided. About 52,000 meters will be
provided for new connections, revolving stock of spare meters, metering
program for unread meters and unmetered connections.
Rehabilitation of Surface Water Sources (NRs 80.8 million)
11.      The purpose of this component is to rehabilitate and safeguard the
existing surface  sources  as  there  are  no  new  surface  sources  to be
exploited with the Valley.  However,  one small scheme, utilizing the Naldu
Khola with an estimated yield  of  6 mld,  is under consideration by NWSC.
The existing sources' capacities and  location  of treatment works for each
source are given in the table below:



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 15
Scheme Name                    Capacity (mid)              Treated at
,ri-bhim Dhara                       7.3                   Balaju
Bir Dhara                            2.9                   Bansbari
Sundarijal                          20.4                    Sundarijal
Pharping                            14.4                   Pharping
Dood Pokhari                         2.0                    Kirtipur
Lokhat                               0.5                   Kirtipur
Muldole                              2.6                    Takhel
Bhaktapur                            2.5                    Bhaktapur
Total                          52.6
The rehabilitation work required for the eight schemes include:
Tri-bhim Dhara: repair and improvements to intake structures, fencing at
intake site, construction of guards' quarters, replacement of 2,550 m of
250 mm diameter transmission main and 4,150 m of 150 mm diameter pipe to
correct excessive leakage and to provide extra wet season capacity.
Sundarijal: provision of bypass to enable water to reach treatment works
when power station is not working.
Pharping: fencing works at 2 of 3 spring sites, repairs to leaking head
pond, protection of pipeline between head pond and pumping station, and
pipeline along Pharping to Saimbu reservoir, and a pumping facility for
irrigation water.
Dood Pokhari: fencing at intake and provision of earth cover to exposed
pipeline.
Lokhat: repairs to compound wall around intake site and new guard's
quarters.
Muldole: upgrading of footpath to motorable standard and replacement of
pump.
Bhaktapur: minor repairs to dam, repair and renewal of screen and frame,
repair to stream gua&,e, rehabilitation of existing transmission main and
construction of new transmission main.    (The  existing safe yield of this
source is 2.5 mld but the yield could be up to 6.9 mld.)
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Works (NRa 61.9 million)
12.      NWSC operates four water  treatment plants treating mainly surface
water, except at Balaju where some ground water is treated. The treatment
plant at Maharajgunj will be demolished as it has reached the end of its
useful life, and water presently treated at Maharajgunj will be treated at
the new Bansbari treatment plant. The rehabilitation works will be limited
to Balaju (10 mld), Sundarijal (21.4 mld) and Bansbari (Bhaktapur) (2.5
mld), and are describe below:



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 15
Balaju: The plant was constructed around 1961 and the present state of the
chemical, electrical and mechanical plant is poor. A full assessment would
be done when water levels are drawn down, but the filters and reservoir are
both known  to  leak.    The  principal  items  of  work  proposed  are (a)
replacement of chemical plant, (b) refurbishment of filters, and (c)
provision of new washwater pumps.
Sundarijal: Apart from instrumentation, this 20 year old plant is in
reasonable condition. The principal items of work proposed are (a) new
alum dosing pump, (b) new chlorination equipment, (c) new instrumentation,
and (d) minor refurbishment of filters.
Bansbari (Bhaktapur): Although the plant is of recent construction, design
and construction have not  proved  satisfactory.    The filters can only be
washed when they have all been taken out of service. Revised filter piping
arrangements will be provided and filters modified to accept combined
air/water wash. A roof will be provided over the filters. The existing
chlorination building is unsuitable and will be converted to a chlorine
store. A new chlorination building will be provided with new chlorinators.
A standby fecility using  hypochlorite  will  be  provided.   Alum and lime
dosing plants also would be provided. The existing flocculation tank which
has excessive  leakage would be  replaced.    A by-pass will be provided so
that the 90 year old reservoir can be drawn down, examined and necessary
repairs carried out.
Groundwater Treatment (NRs 333.3 million)
13.      Given  the   prevailing   operational   difficulties,  grounwvater
treatment has become a priority activity. Groundwater contains iron levels
varying between 2.3 to 6.0 mg/l.    Treatment would be done for the removal
of iron, manganese, ammonia, carbon dioxide and for disinfection. The
deposition of iron flocs, produced when groundwater is mixed with surface
water creates frequent meter blockages and consumer complaints. Tubewell
water from the different wellfields  will  be  brought co two new treatment
plants - one at Bansbari (20 mld capacity) and the other at Hahankal Chaur
(30 mld capacity). The treatment will include aeration, sedimentation (if
necessary), rapid gravity filtration and disinfection.
New Distribution Phase I (NRs 15.1 million)
14.      Based on the mathematical  models  prepared  for the Kathmandu and
Lalitpur distribution systems, projections for the Phase I period indicate
that the supply hours will reduce to below the present 6 hours. Provision
has been made for construction of those pipes that will assist in a more
equitable distribution of the intermittent supply. New distribution mains
required to improve the supply in local problem areas will also be
constructed.
Central Facilities, Plant and Vehicles (MRs 105.6 million)
15.      The facilities  to  be  provided  under  this  component are those
considered necessary for  NWSC  to  effectively  operate  and maintain both
water supply and sewerage systems. The component includes:



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 15
(a) Plant, vehicle and minor equipment and office equipment (NRs 50.3
million). Emphasis will be on providing vehicles for operation
and  maintenance  staff   and   essential  operational  equipment,
including spares. Limited amounts of plant, minor equipment and
office equipment would also be procured.
(b)  Facilities  (NRs  31.6   million).   (i)   Central  workshops  and
laboratory at Sundarighat would be provided with the following:
new boundary and retaining walls to enlarge level area: new
workshop  for  mobile  plant,   new   bulk  store;  extension  and
rehabilitation of pump repair and valve repair sections, stores
and  offices;  and  extension   of  central  laboratory  including
equipment and furniture; (ii) central chemical store for holding
chemical stocks for 3 to 6 months with separate storage area for
chlorine; and (iii) district pipe storage centers at Maharajgung,
Mahankal Chaur and Lalitpur.
(c) Pipeline Repair Material (NRs 23.7 million). Adequate stocks of
mechanical couplings, repair collars, tees and bends, and valves
will be provided for repair of pipe bursts and extensions and
modifications to the network.
Control of Water Losses (Unaccounted for Water) (NRs 99.2 mLilion)
16.      The present  high  leakage  levels  during  an intermittent supply
would increase after the future water source is commissioned. Conventional
leak  detection  techniques   are   not   effective   under  conditions  of
intermittent supply. However, the following activities will be included in
the project: (a) investigations and preparation of designs and documents,
(b) supply of leak detection and modelling equipment, (c) supply of meters
for use in calibration of mathematical model of distribution system, (d)
provision of facilities for leakage control, (e) supply and installation of
valves, including spares for repair, and (f) leakage reduction program.
17.      As  far  as  possible  the  works  would  be  done  by specialized
contractors.    Investigations  would  include  (a)  determining  the  most
suitable strategy and staffing needs and support facilities required, (b)
location of valves that need to be repaired, replaced and added to enable
districts to be isolated, (c) installation of meters for calibration
purposes, (d) pilot studies to determine feasibility of leak detection by
pressurizing specified areas (e) conventional leak detection in areas that
can be made available with a 24-hour supply for a sufficiently long period,
and (f) leak detection using leak noise correlators including training of
NWSC staff.
18.      Prior to any  leak  detection  in  the  core areas, a distribution
system rehabilitation will  be  undertaken.    Primarily  this will include
replacing small distribution mains with a minimum 100 mm diameter pipes and
replacing the "spaghetti" type service connections.
19.      A leak detection and  control  program  is  described in detail in
Annex 10.



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 15
Sever System Rehabilitation (NRs 141.3 million)
20.      The sewerage infrastructure, which  includes pre-IDA, post-IDA and
other works constructed under the three IDA credits, is neither fully
utilized, nor does it operate  properly.    There is evidence of failure of
critical components,  a  lack  of  adequte  operation  and  maintenance and
failure to connect properties within reasonable reach of the sewers.
Problems are exacerbated due to the lack of centralized records of
construction  and  connections.       Further,   lack  of  adequate  planning
regulations and coordination between building plan approving authorities
and NWSC, results in buildings  being  constructed  on  sewer lines or in a
manner that makes construction of sewers very difficult and unfeasible in
some cases.
21.      Provision has been made under the project for (a) sewage treatment
plant rehabilitation; (b) pumping main rehabilitation; (c) pumping station
rehabilitation; (d) sewer surveys; and (e) sewer rehabilitation, described
below:
(a) Sewage Treatment Works. Neither of the sewage treatment works at
Dhobighat (for Kathmandu) and Khodku (for Lalitupur) have been
operated properly, and have fallen into disrepair. The project
would provide for rehabilitation of the works to the original
design. There are bathing places downstream of both works and
considerable environmental and health benefits would be derived by
the proposed rehabilitation. The work includes:
(i) renewal of the control plates to inlet works, flow measuring
device and drain valves, cleaning out grit chambers, new access
platforms and landscaping;
(ii)  degritting and desludging  ponds,  particularly the primary and
secondary ponds,  excavation  to  their  original design level,
clearance of overgrowth from embankments and repair of all
embankments to their original specifications;
(iii) replacement of faulty valves, missing weir plates and control
baffles in the interconnections and control structures, and
repair of channel;
(iv)  replacement or repair of  fencing  to make area inaccessible to
the public;
(v) re-equipment of the chlorine house at Khodku treatment works;
(vi)  relocation of overhead ele':tricity  pylons (or relandscape pond
at Khodku) and refurbishing guard's quarters;
(vii) provision of boats, safety equipment and launching pads at
ponds for sampling, inspection and monitoring;
(b)  Repair of the  pumping  main  that  conveys sewerage from Kirtipur
pumping station to  Dhobighat  treatment  works.    This main that
involves a river crossing, has failed twice since commissioning



- 42 -                           Annex 3
Page 8 of 15
has not been repaired for over 3 years, and discharges sewage to
the river at present.
(c)  The Kirtipur Pumping Station designed  with  a capacity of 216 mld
(3 x 72 mld pumps), has an installed capacity of 100 mld (2 x 50
mld pumps). Due to failure of the pumping main and low flows
reaching this point, the pumps have had only nominal use (No. 1
for 1800 hours and No. 2 for 1750 hours in about 10 years of
operation), and are in good  condition.   The project will provide
for the following works:
(i)   At the inlet works, renewal  of stop logs, provision of lifting
equipment to operate stop logs and sanitary method of raking
screen and disposal of screenings.
(ii) desilting of wet well and renewal of level electrodes;
(iii)  laboratory  equipment  to  monitor   operations  of  ponds  and
pollution levels in Aivers.
(d)  Interception of Old C tnbined  Sewers.    Most  of the old combined
sewers discharge e luents into rivers and streams creating
adverse environmentai and health  impacts.    Under the second IDA
project it was intended that the old combined sewers in the core
area would be connected to the newly constructed sanitary sewers
at strategic points via storm overflow chambers, to avoid all the
flows ending up in watercourses.    The dry weather flows from the
combined sewers would be treated at Dhobighat treatment works, but
at times of  high  surface  runoff  during  monsoons, the chambers
would overflow  directly  to  natural  water  courses.    Only two
chambers out of  about  nine  were  constructed under the previous
project and neither  are  operating  properly.   The project would
provide for interception of all remaining combined sewers to
eliminate the prevailing adverse environmental impact.
(e)  Sewer Survey.  The  records  of  the  entire sewer network are not
adequate to determine the current condition of sewers or to ensure
good  practice  or   for   giving   sewer  connections.    Illegal
connections to sewers and discharge of raw sewage to surface water
drains  are  reported.      Additionally,   the  current  level  of
utilization is not fully  known  although  the system is certainly
underutilized.  A thorough survey  of  all sewers would be done to
provide a permanent record for future planning and for efficient
operationo and maintenance. The survey will include flow analysis
and a structural record of all sewers including all connections,
both legal and illegal.   Structural failures and points of inflow
and infiltration will also be identified.
(f)  Sewer Rehabilitation.  In  order  to  bring  the sewer system into
full  operation  as  designed,   the   project  will  provide  for
refurbishment of sewers and appurtenances and construction of
branch sewers. Blocked trunk mains will be cleared or replaced,
(specifically the 350 meter length of trunk sewer from Tukuca
Khola diversion structure to Kirtipur pumping station).



- 43-                           Annex 3
Page 9 of 15
Sever Extensions, Connections, Sanitation (NRes 137.5 million)
22.      Sewer Extensions (NRs  85.4  million).    A  contract for laying a
sewer, alongside Tukuca Khola to serve, in particular, Dillibazar and
Baghbazar was abandoned after laying about 700 meters (about 10Z). Apart
from the poor work organization by the contractor, permission for road
cutting was not granted for the contractor to progress with the work. The
Tukuca Khola is essentiall) a storm drain and in the absence of sewers, it
collects sewage from all areas east and west along its route. It also is
badly polluted from indiscriminate dumping of solid wastes affecting its
hydraulic capacity and  flow  characteristics.    During  periods of storm,
heavily polluted water backs up and floods low lying areas. The ongoing
Kathmandu Drainage Masterplan Study Final  Report has confirmed that Tukuca
Khola should function purely as a  storm  drain.  The project would provide
for the phase I construction of the sewer alongside the Tukuca Khola.
23.      Sewer Connections (NRs 20.8 million).   The new sewers constructed
under previous IDA projects serve predominantly the wards of the West and
South of the central core  of  the  city.    There  is  a sewer to the East
(Tukuca Khola) which is as yet incomplete. It is presumed that properties
in the central core are connected to the old combined sewers and thus there
is little scope for further  connections.    The NWSC has about 2,100 legal
connections, but estimates another 5,000 illegal connections exist. As
originally designed, the sewer system has a capacity of about 17,000
connections. The average cost of a connection is estimated at about Rs
4,000. The project will provide funds for up to 10,000 sewer connections
to cover 50 percent of the cost, which will be passed on by NWSC as a
grant.  The criteria for selection of beneficiaries and the methodology for
implementation will be agreed with IDA  no  later than September 1990.  The
sewer connection program will be promoted under the community participation
program by the Consumer Relations Unit of NWSC, and consumers would provide
remaining funds.  NWSC will also ensure that all consumers connected to the
sewer system will have a water  connection  and the sewerage charge will be
levied. The 50% grant will include 150 mm sewer to the plot ending in an
inspection chamber located one meter inside the plot boundary.
24.      Sanitation  (NRs  31.3  million).       Clearly  resources  are  not
available for addressing sanitation needs through sanitary sewers. The
coverage by sanitation at present, amounting to about 17%, is extremely low
and HMG wishes to promote sanitation throughout the country. The project
would provide grants up to a maximum of Rs 2,000 each for construction of
about  15,000  units  of  on-site  sanitation  systems.    The  grant would
represent about 50% of the cost of a low-cost toilet. The criteria for
selection of beneficiaries and the methodology of implementation will be
agreed with IDA no later than September 1990. Beneficiaries may construct
either the twin-pit pour-flush toilet or a septic tank system. For the
twin-pit pour-flush toilet, NWSC will provide in-kind the toilet pan,
syphon and drain pipes (aid possibly the toilet slab and pit covers),
representing about NRs 700 cost.   The  remainder will be given in one cash
payment when  the  toilet  substructure  is  completed.    For  septic tank
systems, the NRs 2,000 will be given in one installment after the
beneficiary has completed the septic tank and soakaway. This effort will



- 44 -                      Annex 3
Page 10 of 15
be concentrated in areas where sewers do not exist and the promotion would
be done by the Consumer Relations Unit.
Training (NRs 39.1 million)
25.      The management  support  team  proposed  under  the  project would
conduct on-the-job training of senior, middle and junior management in
addition to operators and artisans.    The  training specialist in the team
will develop a formal  training  program  following  study  of the needs of
staff. This training would include on-the-job training, overseas training
for senior and middle level staff, training for middle and junior
management and operators in South Asian countries, and training using
facilities available in Nepal.
Consumer Education and Community Participation (NR8 15.6 million)
26.      It is generally  accepted  that  the  long  term  success of water
and/or sanitation projects depend to a large extent on the consumers'
understanding of the potential benefits to themselves and how they can
contribute to the proper operation and maintenance. This understanding will
be developed through an intense prolonged period of consumer education. An
additional benefit is to elicit consumer participation in the construction
of services. Such a scheme (for constructing sewers for removal primarily
of storm water) has been in operation, with consumers contributing about 50
percent of costs. This type of scheme is suitable and necessary for NWSC
to provide services  to  meet  consumer  demands.    However, due to public
apathy and  perhaps  diss.tisfaction  with  the  services.  the  public has
obstructed NWSC's operational activities through (a) wastage and theft of
water and not conserving scarce resources; (b) resorting to illegal
connections; (c) bypassing meters or tampering with them; (d) not reporting
water leakages; (e) not paying water and sewerage charges; (f) depositing
solid waste in sewers; and (e) stealing of manhole covers.
27.      The project will  assist  and  expand  the  staff  of the Customer
Relations  U.it,  including  women   appointees,   to  deal  with  consumer
complaints, keep NWSC management informed of customers' needs and problems,
organize public relations and mass media campaigns on water and sanitation
issues, promote cost recovery, sewer connections and the sanitation
program, and develop and organize continuing consumer education programs.
User groups will be organized in all wards of Kathmandu and Lalitpur to
foster greater community participation and monitoring problems affecting
service delivery. Women's participation would be compulsory. User groups
would be required to have at least two women. the training and educational
materials will be developed in collaboration with user groups, other
concerned  government  agencies   and  national  non-governmental  agencies
(NGOs).
TOWNS OUTSIDE KATUKANDU VALLEY
28.      The nine towns outside  the  Kathmandu  Valley  for which NWSC has
jurisdiction up to date are Bhairahawa, Biratnagar, Birgunj, Butwal,
Dharan, Hetauda, Janakpur, Nepalgunj and Pokhara. Town profiles, levels of
service and water demand are described in Annex 1.



-45 -
Annex 3
Page 11 of 15
29.      The works proposed for the  nine  towns outside the Valley include
rehabilitation of water supply systems, including new works designed to
improve efficiency and levels of service, a sanitation program, meter
rehabilitation, leakage control program, and provision of facilities such
as vehicles and equipment, and stores for pipe repair and maintenance. The
water supply rehabilitation works proposed and costs are summarized for
each town in the following pages.    New work proposed includes a new river
intake at Pokhara to replace the temporary intake. The treatment plant at
Pokhara was designed under the third IDA project and is ready for
construction. Though not included in the project, it is available for
financing by other  donors.    A  limited  leak  detection program would be
undertaken in the towns with large proportions of unaccounted for water,
including the two towns (Dharan and Pokhara), one with an intermittent
supply and the other with a 24-hour supply, to serve as a model for future
activities.   A  meter  repair  and  rehabilitation  program, including the
supply of about 15,000 meters and spares would also be inlcuded. As there
are no sewer systems in the towns outside the Valley, an on-site low-cost
sanitation program would be provided for over 15,000 toilets, amounting to
about 50 percent of families with water connections. As in the Kathmandu
Valley, a grant of up to a maximum of Rs 2,000 would be provided by NWSC,
estimated to cover about 50 percent of the cost of the toilet. Summary
costs including physical contingencies are:
Base Cost  Physical      Price        Total
Contingency Contingency
---------------NRs million-----------
Water supply rehabilitation and
improvements                     126.7       12.6         35.7        175.0
Sanitation                           34.8        3.5           9.8        48.1
Facilities and plant                  31.7       3.2           8.9        43.8
Total                      193.2        19.3         54.4        266.9
Funds provided under the project for meter rehabilitation and supply, and
facilities and plant have been necessarily limited due to fund constraints.
The on-site sanitation program has scope for expansion if the program is
successful.    NWSC  and  HMG would  approach  other  donors  to  meet the
shortcomings, including the water treatment plant at Pokhara.                             -



- 46 -
Annex 3
Page 12 of 15
Water Supply Rehabilitation and Improvements
Quantity/         Total
Description                                  Capacity         NRs x 103
BHAIRAHAWA
Replacement of highlift pumps at reservoir
at NWSC compound                                      3 x 7.5 HP             69
Control panel for pumps at reservoir
at NWSC compound                                      1 set                  46
Submersible well pump at Kanya High School               1 set                  553
Pump operators quarters at Kanya High School             1 unit                 151
Repair ground tank (90 cu m) at NWSC compound            1 x 90 m3               25
Supply and installation of chlorination plant at
IDA well at NWSC compound                              1 set                 398
Distribution system rehabilitation  - 150 mm             1,000 m              1,307
- 100 mm          2,000 m             1,898
Total base cost                                                   4,447
BIRATNAGAR
Rehab. of existing wells at: Teenpaini and Devkota   1 @ 25 1/sec
Chowk (BRT 1)              1 @ 18 1/sec          605
Repair of pumps and accessories at Teenpaini and
Devkota Chowk (BRT 1) - 11" dia. 2 impeller            2 no.                   28
- 10" dia. 3 impeller          1 no.                   14
-  8"  dia. 5 impeller         1 no.                   11
Pumps and accessories at Rani Well No. 2                 1 set x 46 1/sec       251
Transmission Main (200 mm) Rani-Biratnagar               4,000 m              6,873
Repairs to R.C. elevated reservoir at Teenpaini,         1 x 450 m3
Devkota Chowk and Rani                                 2 x 500 m3             151
Gas chlorination plants at Munal Path
and Rani Well sites                                    2 no.                 796
Distribution system rehabilitation    - 150 m            3,340 m              4,414
- 100 m         1,000 m               950
Total base cost                                                   14,093
BIRGUNJ
Repair/replacement of turbines, motors and control
panels at Birgunj and Adarshnagar original wells:
- 25 1/sec x 35 m head                                 1 no.                 104
- 30 1/sec                                             1 no.                 10'
Repair of control panels: Shreepur (42 1/sec),
Adarshnagar (48 I/sec), Naguwa (42 1/sec) and
Padam (24 1/sec)                                       4 units               184
Replacement of booster pumps at Naguwa wells             1 x 20 HP              270
Operators quarters at Padam and Naguwa well sites    2 units                    302
Rehabilitation of Naguwa ground reservoir (250 m3,
Birgunj elevated tank (450 m3) and Adarshnagar
elevated tank (450 m3)                                 3 units               151
Chlorination plants:Naguwa (incl building) and Padam 2 units                    796
Distribution system rehabilitation    - 150 mm           2,000 m              2,613
- 100 mm        4,000 m             3,796
Total base cost                                                   8,320



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 13 of 15
Water Supply Rehabilitation and Improvements
Quantity/     Total
Description                                    Capacity      NRs x 103
BUTWAL
Rehabilitation of Chiriya Khola intake                     1 unit           1,008
Improvement of Tinau river intake                          1 unit             504
Replacement of 20 HP turbine pumps at Tinau intake         3 no.              476
Rehabilitation of IDA Well No. 2                           1 no.              302
Replacement of 300 mm transmission main
Chiriya Khola-Ramphedi reservoir                         1,500 m          4,217
Protection (if Chiriya Rhola transmission main             100 m              236
Chlorination plant installation                            1 unit              18
Distribution system rehabilitation    - 150 mm             1,000 m          1,306
- 100 mm           2,000 m          1,898
Total base cost                                                  9,965
DHARAN
Rehabilitation of intakes at Kardhu (5.0 mld),
Sardu (6.0 mld) and Pakhuwa (0.1 mld) Kholas             3 sites          3,931
Reconstruction of intakes at Bhalu (0.1 mld) and
Seoti (0.4 mld) Kholas                                   2 sites          1,814
Repair of electrical, mechanical and structural
works, including anchors for highlift pumps              3 sites             90
Repair of highlift pump (IDA pumping station)              1 no.              406
Operator's quarters at Sardu and Khardu intake sites    1 no.                 151
Replacement of transmission mains
Khardu Khola system - 200 am                             1,200 m          2,062
Sardu Khola system  - 200 mm                             2,800 m          4,811
Seoti Khola system  - 200 mm                             1,000 m          1,718
Bhalu Khola system  - 100 mm                             1,000 m            950
Protection of Khardu Khola main on hillside;
Sardu and Khardu Khola mains along bridge                500 m              450
Repairs to reservoirs: Phusre (1,300 m3) steel tank,
Chhata Chowk (1,300 m3) and Ward 16 (250 m3)             3 units            399
Rehabilitation of sedimentation tanks at Sardu Khola
(2 x 1,350 m3), including 3 valves                       1 unit             450
Rehabilitation of Phusre pressure filter and
contact tank                                            1 unit             270
Chlorination of plant at Phusre reservoir site             1 unit             398
Distribution system rehabilitation       - 150 mm          3,000 m          3,919
- 100 mm          1,000 m            949
Total base cost                                                 22,768



- 48 -                          Annex 3
Page 14 of 15
Water Supply Rehabilitation and Improvements
Quantity/     Total
Description                                    Capacity      NRs x 103
HETAUDA
Rehabilitation of intakes:  Bundel Khola (1 mld),          1 unit             907
Samri Khola well (0.3 mld)  1 unit              504
Guards quarters:  Bundel Khola and Karra wells             2 units            302
Pump control panel and pumphouse at Karra IDA well #2   1 unit                251
Transmission main:  200 mm IDA well #1 to Harigunj         4,500 m          7,732
200 mm IDA well #2 to Kawane          3,000 m          5,155
Protection of 200 mm transmission main
Bundel Khola to reservoir                                lump sum           252
Harigunj reservoir protection, interconnection
and repair                                               lump sum           202
Chlorination plant at IDA tubewell site                    1 unit             398
Distribution system rehabilitation       - 150 mm          1,500 m          1,959
- 100 mm          !,000 m          2,848
Total base cost                                                 20,510
JANAKPUR
Replacement of 35 HP vertical turbine pump at ICM Well  1 unit                159
Operators' quarters at IDA well #2                         1 no.              151
Rehabilitation of ICM reservoir at Azgar Sagar
(450 m3)                                                 1 no.              202
Distribution system rehabilitation       - 150 mm          1,000 m          1,306
- 100 mm          2,000 m          2,848
Total base cost                                                  4,666
NEPALGUNJ
Replacement of existing turbine pump at ICM
Well #1 (Surkhet Road) with a 50 HP submersible pump 1 no.                 527
Repair of pump, valves, generators and electrical
wiring (Well #3, Industrial Estate)                      lump sum            14
Repair of pump house at Well #1                            1 unit              81
Operator's.quarters at well sitee                          2 units            302
Transmission mains: replacement of 300 mm
from Well #1 to reservoir                                350 m              984
Re-laying of 300 mm main Well #2 to reservoir              1,000 m            622
Provision of 200 mm main from Well #3 to steel tank        1,000 m          1,718
Chlorination plant                                         1 unit             398
Distribution system rehabilitation        - 150 mm         1,500 m          1,959
- 100 mm         3,000 m         2,848
Total base cost                                                  9,453
.



- 49 -                            Annex 3
Page 15 of 15
Water Supply Rehabilitation and Improvements
Quantity/     Total
Description                                    Capacity      NRs x 103
POKHARA
Rehabilitation of intakes:
- Ghatte Khola   I                                     lump sum            50
- Kalimuda Khola ] 4.9 mld surface source              lump sum            50
- Majhkuna Khola ]                                     lump sum           101
- Baldhara Khola - (spring source 0.3 mld)             lump sum            50
- Bhote Khola    - 2.7 mld surface source              lump sum         1,260
Guards quarters at Bhote Khola                             1 unit            151
Construction of new river intake: Mardhi Khola             1 unit          6,854
Rehabilitation of transmission mains:
- 150 mm Kl bridge in Bindabaisini                     1,300 m          1,697
- 100 mm Baldhara Khola                                500   m            474
- 200 mm Bhote Khola                                   3,100 m          5,327
Protection of Mardhi Khola main (400 mm)                  1,000 m            126
Extension of Mardhi Khola main to new intake (400 mm)   1,000 m            4,581
Repair to existing reservoirs:
- Amala Biseuni (500 m3)                                1 unit             101
- Bindabaisini (2 x 500 m3)                             2 units            151
Distribution system rehabilitation    - 150 mm             1,500 m         1,959
- 100 mm          3,000 m          2,848
Total base cost                                                 25,780
Summary
Total Base Cost for nine towns                                          120,000
PhysicaL Contingencies                                                   12,000
Price Contingencies                                                      35,840
167,840



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT FUNDS REQUIREMENTS(7 YEARS)
(NRs. Million)
Katbmandu Valley Towns                        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7    Total
Management Support/Dsn/Spn                       8.85    27.44    35.47    39.12    40.45    47.05    51.35   249.72
New Source Detailed Design                       4.08    12.83    16.75    18.63    19.43    22.78    25.05   119.55
Rehab. of Groundwarer Sources                    3.89    12.41    16.35    18.34    19.27    22.75    25.18   118.20
Rehab. of Distribution System                   10.44    33.27    43.83    49.17    51.67    61.00    67.51   316.90
Meter Rehabilitation                             1.43      4.57     6.01      6.75     7.09      8.37     9.26    43.48
Surface Water Source Rehab.                      2.66      8.49    11.18    12.54    13.18    15.56    17.22    80.84
Sewerage Rehabilitation                          4.65    14.83    19.54    21.92    23.03    27.19    30.09   141.25
Water Treatment Works Rehab.                     2.04      6.50     8.56      9.60    10.09    11.91    13.18    61.87
Groundwater Treatment                           10.98    34.99    46.10    51.72    54.34    64.16    71.00   333.28
Control of Losses                                3.27    10.42    13.72    15.40    16.18    19.10    21.14    99.23
New Distribution                                 0.50      1.59     2.09      2.34     2.46      2.91     3.22    15.10
Sewerage/Sanitation Extension                    4.53    14.43    19.01    21.33    22.41    26.46    29.28   137.46
Central Facilities, Plant, etc.                  3.48    11.09    14.61    16.39    17.22    20.34    22.51   105.65
Training                                         1.24      4.01     5.34      6.04     6.40      7.62     8.49    39.13
Consumer Education                               0.50      1.60     2.13      2.42     2.56      3.05     3.39    15.65
Towns Outside-Kathmandu Valley
Facilities, Plant, etc.                          1.44      4.60     6.06      6.79     7.14      8.43     9.33    43.78
Water Supply                                     5.77    18.38    24.22    27.17    28.55    33.71    37.30   175.10
Sanitation/Sewerage                              1.59      5.06     6.66      7.47     7.85      9.27    10.26    48.15
GRAND TOTAL                                 71.34   226.48   297.64   333.15   349.32   411.65   454.74  2144.33
{DX
0



NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
== _    ___c_      __==    __-_    =       -=   = =   _  __
PROJECT FUNDS REQUIREMENTS(5 YEARS)
(NRs. Million)
Kathmandu Valley Towns                        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total
Management Support/Dsn/Spn                      44.23    80.03    35.47    36.67    37.92   234.32
New Source Detailed Design                      30.60    58.81    16.75       0.00     0.00   106.15
Rehab. of Groundwater Sources                   14.60    25.85    32.70    22.93    12.04   108.12
Rehab. of Distribution System                   31.32    60.99    64.29    67.61    71.04   295.26
Meter Rehabilitation                            14.33      7.61     8.02      4.22     4.43    38.60
Surface Water Source Rehab.                     19.98    28.29    18.64       3.92     0.00    70.82
Sewerage Rehabilitation                         23.27    37.07    39.08    13.70    14.39   127.51
Water Treatment Works Rehab.                    1.5.29    21.65    14.26      3.00     0.00    54.20
Groundwater Treatment                           49.42    72.89    58.39    61.41    64.53   306.64
Control of Losses                               16.35    17.36    18.30    19.25    20.22    91.48
New Distribution                                 0.00      0.00     4.18      5.13     5.39    14.69
Sewerage/Sanitation Extension                    0.00      0.00    38.03    46.66    49.02   133.71
Central Facilities, Plant, etc.                  4.35    23.11    24.36    25.62    21.53    98.96
Training                                         3.10      6.68     8.89      9.44     8.00    36.11
Consumer Education                               0.62      3.34     3.56      3.78     3.20    14.49
Towns Outside-Kathmandu Valley
Facilities, Plant, etc.                          3.61      7.66    10.09    10.61      8.92    40.89
Water Supply                                    21.64    38.30    48.44    33.96    17.84   160.18
Sanitation/Sewerage                              7.93      8.43     8.88      9.34     9.81    44.39
GRAND TOTAL                                300.63   498.07   452.31   377.25   348.30  1976.56
.,      ~I  *-           1!           



- 52 -                                  Annex 5
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
II4PLEMULNTATION SCHEDULE
Calender Year                 I 1991  1 1992  1 1998  1 1994  1 1995   I1             I 1997  I 1998  I
----------------------------------------_----------------------_-------__-_--__---------------------------
Nepal/IDA Flscel Yeer              1 1992  I 1998  1  1994  1 1995  I 1996 I         1997  1 1999  I 1999 I
----------------------------------------------------------__------------__---__---------------------------
Fiscal Quarters                    11121814 11121814 11121814 11121814 11121814 11121814 11121314 111218141
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__---------------------------
Kathmandu Valley Towns             i         i        '                  I        i                  I       i
Management Support/Dsn/Spn         | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
New Source Detailed Design                           xxxxxxx             I        J xx  |!
Rehab. of Oroundwater Sources      |         I    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx         |        !
Reheb. of Distribution System       I            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxl
Meotr Rehebilitation               I         I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx       I         |        |
Surface Water Source Rehab.        i         I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXXXXXXF.
Sewerage Rehabilitation            i               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxKxxxI         I
Water Treatment Works Rehab.                 I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I
Groundwater Treatment              i         I     xxxxx.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI         i         |  -     |    -
Control of Losses                  I         Ixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxKKKx       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxIX
New Distribution                   I         I                  I   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI
Sewerage/Sanitation Extension      I         I        IxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI
Central Facilities, Plant, eta.   I          I  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI          I         I        I 
Training                           I         I     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI
Consumer Education                 I         IIxxxxxxxxxxxxKxxxxxxKxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxIxxxxx,cxxxxxxxxxxxI
Towns Outside-Kethmandu Valley    I          I        I         I        I        I         I          I I
Facilities, Plant, etc.                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                         |
Water Supply                       I         I   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxI          I
I        I        I         I       I       I        I        i        I
Sen itation/Sewlerage              I         I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxj
I       I       I       I        I       I        I       IIl_____l__________l__________



53 -                        Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
U N WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REBILITATION PROJECT
Operational Action Plan
ACTION                      RESPONSIBILITY            COMPLETION DATE
Financial Aspects
1. Review Phase I program of
FYDP annually in
consultation with IDA              HMG/NWSC            Annually
2. Subsequent tariff increases        NWSC                 Further revenue increase of SOZ
prior to Effectiveness,
thereafter increases to meet
NWSC's financial objectives
3. Payment of NRs 4.0 million
to NWSC for standpost
arrears                            1MG                 Prior to Effectiveness
4. Payment of arrears of water
charges from HMG Ministries,
offices, etc., of NRs 0.2
million                            HMG/Ministries       Prior to Effectiveness
5. Payment of NRs 33.0 million
arrears to Nepal Electricity
Corporation                        NWSC                Prior to Effectiveness
6. NWSC's Revenue Related (Item
A) Management Improvement
Program                            NWSC                Continuous through FY 1990-91
7. NWSC's Expenditure Related
(Item B) Management
Improvement Program                NWSC                Continuous through FY 1990-91
implementation
8. Preparation of PFF and
Project Document for
management support to UNDP         IDA,RAS/861160
and HHG                            HMG, NWSC           Completed
9.  Submission of request for
management support to UNDP         HMGINWSC            Completei
10. Donor liaison and financial
pledges                           UNDP/HMGIIDA         Continuous
11. Prequalification of
contractors for major
contract packages                 NWSC/IDA             October 31, 1991
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
ACTION                     RESPONSIBILITY           COMPLETION DATE
Institutional
12.     Program of meter
cleaning on a routine
basis                       NWSC                Continuous
13.     Establish, staff and
set in operation
Consumer Relations Unit
comprising a community
participation and
consumer education unit
and a training unit         NWSC                December 1991
14.     Develop a sewer
connection program,
including beneficiary
selection criteria,
financing and method of
implementation              NWSC                September 1991
15.     Locate leaks and record
on plans for subsequent
repair                      NWSC                Continuous
16.     Complete acquisition of
or obtain rights to use
land for program
components (e.g.,
treatment plants, new
wells, etc.)                HMG/NWSC            December 31. 1991
17.     Develop a low-cost
sanitation program,
including beneficiary
selection criteria,
financing and method of
implementation              NWSC                September 1991
18.     Obtain HMG waiver for
purchase of maintenance
vehicles                    NWSC/HMG            August 1991
Environmental
19.     Prepare programs to
monitor impacts during
construction and post-      NWSC/
construction phases         Consultant          December 31, 1991
20.      Prepare programs to
monitor quality of



55                            Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
ACTION                     RESPONSIBILITY            COMPLETION DATE
groundwater, surface
water, wastewater and
sewage treatment plant      NWSC/
effluent                    Consultant           December 31, 1991
21.      Prepare model
environmental
assessments for
effluent discharges
from (a) the ruptured
sewer at Kirtipur, and      NWSC's
(b) old combined sewers    consultant            December 31, 1991
22.      Take action to stop
illegal. diversion of
sewage to farms             NWSC                 December 31, 1991
Institutional
23.      Enactment of
legislation to provide
additional powers to
NWSC                         HMG                 Completed
24.      Proposal to reduce non-
operational staff           NWSC                 September 1991
25.      Clarify responsibility
for drainage and
sewerage                    1MG                  July 1991
26.      Clarify policy
regarding NWSC
responsibility for
remaining town
panchayats                  HMG                  Completed
27.      Clarification of NWSC
powers under the new
Act                          HMG                 Completed
Outside-the-Valley Source
Development
28.      Prequalify, shortlist
and select consultant
for detailed design,
tender documents for
main scheme                  NWSC/IDA            December 1992
29.      Prequalification of
consultants for design



-56 -                        Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
ACTION                     RESPONSIBILITY           COMPLETION DATE
of Melamchi access          NWSC                December 1991
roads
30.     Melamchi River gauging       NWSC                May 1991
station rehabilitation
31.     Water quality data for
NWSC Bagmati River
upstream and downstream    NWSC                  Ongoing
of reservoir site



- 57 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Method
For Kathmandu Valley Towns
Force
Components                      Value      ICB    LCB    Account
----------US$ million----------
1.   Well Construction and Rehabilitation
New well construction (8 No.)                2.20    2.20    -          -
Rehabilit. of existing wells (28 No.)        1.10    1.10    -          -
Well spares and monitoring equipment         0.70    0.70    -          -
2.   Distribution System Rehabilitation
Supply of pipes and fittings                 4.90    4.90    -          -
Supply of materials for repairs and
connections                                1.20    1.20    -          -
Civil works, including rehabilitation
of reservoirs                                       1.10    0.60    0.300.20
3.   New distribution mains
Supply and laying of distribution mains    0.50    0.50    -            -
4.   Rehabilitation of surface water sources    2.80    2.00    0.80    -
5.   Rehabilitation of water treatment plants   2.10    1.90    0.20    -
6.   Construction of groundwater treatment
plant3                                    11.40   11.40      -        -
7.   Metering and meter supply
Meter supply                                 1.30    1.30    -          -
Meter spares                                 0.04    0.04    -          -
Meter workshop improvements                  0.10    -         0.10    -
Metering and meter rehabilitation            0.07    -         -        0.07
8.   Leakage control                                       3.40    3.00    0.200.20
9.   Sewer system rehabilitation                  4.80    3.90    0.90    -
10.  Sewer extensions                             2.50    0.60    1.90    -
11.  Sewer connections and sanitation             2.20    0.20    1.00    1.00
12.  Central facilities and plant
Vehicles                                     0.70    0.70    -          -
Plant and equipment                          0-70    0.50    -         0.20
Office equipment                             0.40    0.30    -          0.10
Pipeline repair material                     0.90    0.70    0.20    -
Construction of workshop and stores          0.90    0.70    0.20    -
TOTAL VALLEY TOWNS                   46.01   38.44     5.80    1.77
_                                             _~~~~



- 58 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
For Towns Outside Kathmandu Valley
The indicative investment allocations for towns outside the Kathmandu
Valley are given below:
Water     Sanita-  Facil-
Supply    tion      ities    TOTAL
Bhairahawa           0.22      0.20      0.10     0.52
Biratnagar           0.70      0.20      0.20     1.10
Birgunj              0.42      0.20      0.20     0.82
Butwal               0.50      0.10      0.10     0.70
Dharan               1.14      0.20      0.10     1.44
Hetauda              1.02      0.20      0.20     1.42
Janakpur             0.23      0.20      0.20     0.63
Nepalgunj            0.47      0.20      0.20     0.87
Pokhara              1.29      0.20      0.20     1.69                            -
5.99      1.70     1.50      9.19
The investment levels and geographiic locations of the towns would make
it difficult to group contracts into packages large enough to attract large or
foreign contractors. However, it would be possible to group works in Butwal-
Bhairahawa, Hetauda-Birgunj and Biratnagar-Dharan due to their proximity. Major
items of materials (e.g., pipes, fittings, pumps, etc.) would be procured by NWSC
centrally using ICB procedures, and the civil works will be let on the basis of
LCB.   However, in view of the past poor performance of local contractors,
rigorous supervision of works would be required by the consultants and oversight
by the contracts management experts in the management support team.
The method of procurement is indicated below:
Force
Components                           Value      ICB    LCB    Account
-US$ million-------
Water supply                                 6.00    3.40    2.60       -
Sanitation                                   1.70    0.10    -
Facilities and plant                         1.50    1.20    0.30       -
TOTAL                                  9.20    4.70    2.90    0.00



-59-
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
NEPALo
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of IGB Contracts
KATHNANDU VALLEY TOWNS                                 US$ million
PACKAGE 1: Value US$7.9 million
Well construction and rehabilitation                       4.0
Rehabilitation of surface sources                          2.0
Rehabilitation of water treatment plants                   1.9
PACKAGE 2: Value US$12.1 million
Construction of groundwater treatment plants (2 No.)    11.4
Construction of workshops and stores                       0.7
PACKAGE 3: Value us$10.2 million
Distribution system rehabilitation including
supply of pipes, specials, etc.                           6.7
Leakage control                                            3.0                          PM
Construction of new distribution mains                     0.5
PACKAGE 4: Value US$4.7 million
Sewer system rehabilitation                                3.9
Sewer extensions                                           0.6
Supply of sanitation equipment                             0.2
PACKAGE 5:
Supply of meters and spares                                1.4
PACKAGE 6:
Supply of plant and equipment                              0.5
PACKAGE 7:
Supply of vehicles                                         0.7
PACKAGE 8:
Supply  of office equipment                                0.3
PACKAGE 9:
Supply of pipeline repair material                         0.7



- 60 -
Annex 7
Page b of 4
TOWNS OUTSIDE R&TIN1NDU VALLEY                        US$ million
PACKAGE lOs
Supply of pipes and specials                               3.0
PACKAGE 11:
Supply of plarnt and equipment                             0.2
PACKAGE 12z
Supply of chlorination units                               0.1
PACKAGE 13s
Supply of vehicles                                         0.5
PACKAGE 14s
Supply of office equipment                                 0.2
PACKAGE 15s
Supply of pipeline repair material                         0.2
PACK .1E 16s
Supply of sanitation equipment                             0.1
PACKAGE 17:
Supply of meters and spares                                0.2
Contract Groupings for ICB
In order to attract foreign contractors, the contract packages would
be grouped as follows, in calling for bids:
Group Is
Packages 1 and 2                            Value US$20.0 million
Group IIs
Packages 3, 4 and 9                         Value US$15.6 million
Group III:
Packages 5 and 17                           Value US$ 1.6 million
Group IV:
Packages 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 14         Value US$ 2.5 million
Group Vs
Package 10                                  Value US$ 3.0 million.
Group VI:
Packages 15 and 16                          Value US$ 0.3 million



- 61 -                             Annex 8
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
------_------------------------------_----_-----------__
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA  Quarter Ending          Disbursement       Cumulative  Cumul.  Quarter
Fiscal                        (US$ Million)     Disbursement    2
Year                                          (US$ Million)
--------------------------------------------------------------__------------__--
June    30, 1991              0.00             0.00    0.002       1
1992  September30, 1991             0.00              0.00    0.001w,     2
December 31, 1991             0.60             0.60    1.00C       3
March   31, 1992              0.60             1.20    2.002        4
June    30, 1992              0.60             1.80    3.002        5
1993  September3O, 1992             0.60              2.40    4.002       6
December 31, 1992             1.20             3.60    6.002        7
March   31, 1993              1.20             4.80    8.002        8
June    30, 1993              1.80             6.60   11.002       9
1994  September30, 1993             1.80              8.40   14.002      10
December 31, 1993             1.20             9.60   16.002       11
March   31, 1994              1.80            11.40   19.OOZ       12
June    30, 1994              2.40            13.80   23.0oo       13
1995  September30, 1994             4.20             18.00   30.002      14
December 31, 1994             1.80            19.80   33.002       15
March   31, 1995              2.40            22.20   37.002       16
June    30, 1995              2.40            24.60   41.002       17
1996  September30, 1995             2.40             27.00   45.002      18
December 31, 1995             1.80            28.80   48.002       19
March   31, 1996              2.40            31.20   52.002       20
June    30, 1996              3.00            34.20   57.00Z       21
1997  September30, 1996             3.00             37.20   62.002      22
December 31, 1996             4.20            41.40   69.002      23
March   31, 1997              3.60            45.00   75.002       24
June    30, 1997              2.40            47.40   79.002      25
1998  September30, 1997             1.80             49.20   82.002      26
December 31, 1997             1.80            51.00   85.OOZ      27
March   31, 1998              1.80            52.80   88.002       28
June    30, 1998              1.80            54.60   91.002      29
1999  September30, 1998             1.20             55.80   93.002      30
December 31, 1998             2.40            58.20   97.00%       31
March   31, 1999              1.80            60.00  100.OOZ       32
--------------------------------  ____________________- ________________________



- 62 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
1.        The Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) was created in 1989 to take
over all of the business of the Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation (WSSC),
created in 1984, which had been responsible for water supply --.id sanitation in
12 towns.
2.        The principal differences between NWSC and WSSC are that NWSC: (a) was
created under a separate Act, as opposed to WSSC which was created under the
Corporations Act of 1984, an omnibus act for the creation of public corporations;
(b) has power to, revise and implement tariffs and charges without HMG approval;
and (c) has the powers to prosecute defaulters and terminate service, if
necessary.
3.        The new Corporation will retain responsibility for the provision of
potable water supply and sanitation in the 12 towns previously under WSSC's
jurisdiction. Ultimately it could also become responsible for other areas as
specified, and appropriately notified, by HMG.
4.        The NWSC has a Board of Directors comprising a part-time Chairman
(appointed by HMG) and representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Housing and Physical Planning, the Mayor of either Kathmandu or Lalitpur, and one
other mayor from among the other town panchayats.   The day-to-day operations of
NWSC are run by the General Manager, also appointed by HMG, and who is the
Member-Secretary of the Board.
5.        NWSC has a total staff strength of about 2,050, of which about 600 are
temporary staff.  About 1,375 staff are located in the Kathmandu Valley, the
remaining 675 are distributed amongst the nine other towns.  Most staff are
assigned to operations. At present, there appears to be no uniform pattern to
staffing in the various towns. The population served per staff varies from a
high of 740 in Dharan to 178 in Janakpur. In the Kathmandu Valley, it is 350.
6.        The objectives, function, rights and duties of NWSC, as described in
the Act are as follows:
(a)   formulate plans relating to potable water and sewerage systems and
implement, or cause to implement such plans;
(b)   study,  research  and  survey  sources  of potable water  and  its
distribution and sewerage;
(c)   determine  the  route  for  potable  water  from  sources  to  the
distribution site, and demarcate its line:
(d)   construct, or cause to construct infrastructure relating to potable
water and sewerage systqms;
(e)   carry out workz  in accordance with agreements between HMG and
foreign governments or international organizations relating to
potable water and sewerage.



- 63 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
(f)   operate development projects relating to potable water and sewerage
systems specified by HMG;
(g)   provide potable water and sewerage services, and realize fees and
charges;
(h)   specify the necessary terms and conditions relating to the use of
potable water and sewerage;
(i)   prevent the misuse of water;
(j)   control the pollution of potable water;
(k)   carry out, or cause to be carried out maintenance of water supply
and sewerage pipelines;
(1)   generate, internally, its operations costs; and
(m)   carry  out,  or  cause  to be  carried  out  other works  for  the
fulfillment of the objectives of the Corporation.
7.    The Corporation has the following powers to realize fees and charges:
(a)   determine and collect fees and charges from a person for providing
potable water and sewerage service;
(b)   set a time limit for payment of fees for such services;
(c)   set penalties of between NRs 252 and NRs 502 for failure to pay
within the specified time;
(d)   terminate services for failure to pay fees, charges or penalties;
and
(e)   reconnect service on payment of arrears.
8.        Unlike its predecessor, NWSC has power to enter into premises (by
giving prior notice) in connection with its business. The General Manager, or
an officer prescribed by him, however, may enter without prior notice, except
between sunset and sunrise, in connection with an investigation where there is
reasonable cause to suspect misuse or pilferage of potable water. Any person now
found: (a) breaking or misusing NWSC's property; (b) polluting potable water; (c)
making water connections without the permission of NWSC; (d) consuming water
through a meter bypass; (e) pumping water frnm the pipeline; (f) breaking or
destroying  the meter;  (g)  connecting  to the  sewerage  system without  the
permission of NWSC; (h) disposing of solid waste into the sewerage system,
renderir.g it inoperative; (i) stealing, destroying,  or spoiling, or damaging
water and sewerage pipelines; (j) demolishing or destroying sewerage structures;
and/or (k) obstructing or opposing NWSC's activities relating to potable water
arid sewerage systems shall be punishable by a fine of up to NRs 10,000 and/or
imprisonment of up to five years.
9.        The organization chart of NWSC is appo'



-64 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
tot
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w
i   B
dJ e11   X+3L
3E ,0 t=X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



- 65 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 9
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
1.        The rehabilitation project is primarily designed to address deferred
maintenance so that efficiency of services can be improved and asset life
extended. Consumer satisfaction will be of high priority in all operations. A
number of activities, in addition to the physical investments under the project,
have to be undertaken to achieve the above objectives. All levels of management
will be involved in this effort, assisted (as co-workers) by the management team
of specialists provided under the project.   The goal will be to make NWSC
services and systems reliable and meet acceptable standards prevailing in other
water utilities. In view of the high level of unaccounted for water, control of
losses and conservation of water will be given high priority. A detailed program
for red-icing unaccounted for water is described in Section B of this Annex. The
improvement in activities and practices are outlined below.
A. OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
Water Quality
2.        The Iron and Sand Problem:  Wells that are supplying water with iron
levels in excess of 0.3 mg/l need to be treated as soon as possible.  Wells that
pump excess sand need to be investigated, remedial action taken or the well
abandoned. As the groundwater treatment facilities may take up to two years or
so to complete, NWSC would commence a program for frequent cleaning of water
meters (say bi-monthly) and flushing of pipes. This work may be carried out by
contract, but not be left to the consumers.
3.        Quality Monitorings Regular water quality monitoring would be done as
a routine operation.  This service would be extended to all towns.  The NWSC
laboratory would conduct periodic tests of river water to determine the level of
foul effluent pollution,  if any.   Reporting of test results would be done
regularly for review by senior management.
Standards and Procedures
4.        Standards would be set for operating procedures and for materials to
be used in mains and service installations:
(a) Distribution mains shall have a minimum cover of 1.0 meter on travelled
portion of roads and be laid on a bed of clean earth or sand making
sure that no stones or hard objects are under the pipe or touching it.
The trench shall be well compacted especially in the travelled portion
of the road.



- 66 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
(b)  Service laterals shall have a minimum cover of 0.9 meter on travelled
portion of the roads and be laid on a bed of clear earth or sand and
assuring that there fare no hard objects touching the pipe. The pipe
shall be covered over to a depth of 300 mm with clean earth or sand and
well compacted.
(c) Pipe material would be as follows:
(i)   All pipes below 100 mm would be polyethylene or high density
polyethylene with the appropriate strength to meet local
conditions (i.e., system pressure, depth of burial, and to be
compatible with standard compression fittings), and further, the
pipes shall not contain toxic materials.
(ii)  Pipes 100 mm and over would be cement lined ductile iron with
push-on ring joints or PVC equivalent to British Standard (BS)
Grade E.
(iii) In the interest of efficient stock keeping the practice of using
80 mm pipe would be stopped.
(iv)  The specials (e.g., tees, bends, etc.) for mains would be
push-on ring joints. This would eliminate the need for keeping
such a large stock of lead and make installation easier.
(v)   Fittings for polyethylene pipe shall be compression type and
definitely not socketweld or buttweld.
(d)  Domestic service lines would be either 15 mm or 20 mm (with 15
diameter water meters).   Larger connections for other users would
generally not exceed 50 mm.
(e)  Water meters would be installed on the consumerslowners property and
not less than 300 mm above ground.
(f)  A stopcock will be installed before the meter so that water can be
turned off and sealed when the need arises.
(g)  No property will be serviced with more than one service line.
(h)  All water meters will be sealed to prevent tampering; any person
removing a seal without prior permission of NWSC would be fined
promptly.
(i)  Tapping of mains will not be at the crown of the pipe; it would at an
angle (ten-to-two position).



- 67 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 9
Personnel and Consumers
5.        Action would be taken to train personnel to make sure that all
equipment is being operated and maintained as they should be:
(a) Making sure that pumps and valves are not leakirg.
(b) That reservoirs do not overflow allowing water to go to waste.
(c) Repair of all leaks on NWSC properties and installations without delay,
as this will not only add much needed water to the system, but will
also work wonders in building consumer confidence.
(d) Repair of the leak at the base of the Sundarigaht elevated tank and
also reinforcement of the tank as it nas bulged outwards for some
reason, and could be structurally dangerous.  The tank, itself will
have to be welded as it has also split at the bulge and is leaking.
(e) Issuance of instructions to all personnel where chlorine dosing is
done, emphasizing the reason for and the importance of chlorine
treatment and the exact method and amount of dosage required.
(f) The Consumer Relations Unit would undertake promotion of the sewer
connection and sanitation programs, in addition to its other duties.
Water Meters
6.        The following program for water meters is planned:
(a) Faulty or damaged meters would be reported by meter readers, and prompt
action would be taken to repair or replace them.
(b)  A periodie program to remove meters for testing and calibration would
be introduced.
(c) As stated earlier, meters would be cleaned about bi-monthly until the
problem of iron and sand in groundwater is solved.
(d) NWSC should maintain the comparative advantage it now enjoys with the
two standard meters in use. Future meter purchases would ensure, among
other things, that all meters fit into one space (i.e., length of meter
constant); and they should be mountable vertically or horizontally.
Planning Considerations
7.        Planning for the following should be considered:
(a)  NWSC should have a role in clearance of building plans before approval
by the municipality, to ensure availability of adequate water and



- 68 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 9
sanitation, connection to sewers and buildings do not obstruct water
and sewerage operations, etc.
(b) NWSC would frame water and sewerage by-laws to provide a legal basis
for the above.
(c) The Planning Division would maintain up-to-date records of all water
and sewerage networks. The plans produced under the SIMS project would
be refined to permit effective network remodelling in the future.
(d) Consumers would be provided details of sewer connections including the
invert levels. The connection of consumer's water or service line to
NWSC mains shall be by NWSC staff.
(e) Sewer construction would be undertaken following site investigations,
levelling and preparation of longitudinal and cross-section drawings.
(f)  Standard details for water and sewer connections, manholes, inspect.on
chambers, etc., would be produced by NWSC and made available to
interested parties.
B. PROGRAM FOR REDUCTION OP UNACCOUNTED FOR WATER
KATIMRWDU VALLEY TOWNS (JULY 1991 - JUNE 1996)
8.        The installed capacity of ground and surface water in the Kathmandu and
Lalitpur is about 90 mld.   An estimate of current demand for the 440,000
population in the service area is about 54 mld. At any given time, available
capacity amounts to about 65 mld, leaving about 26 mld unaccounted for (about
402). Judging from the amount of theft, wastage and leakage on higher-income
consumer premises, and losses/wastage occuring at spring sources, wells,
reservoirs, etc., it is believed that the losses in the system through leakage
alone amount to between 20%-25Z. The plumbing practices and procedures adopted
in service connections are estimated to result in losses through leakage
estimated to be in the range of 151 to 201.
9.        The major emphasis in the program for reduction of unaccounted for
water would be to stop losses in visible leaks and in service lines. A major
portion of the small mains and 'spaghetti" type service lines will be replaced
with new 100 mm, and 50 m and 15 mm pipes respectively, located at depths of
0.6 m to 0.9 m.  Wastage occuring on consumer premises through overflows in
ground and elevated tanks will be stopped through the installation of ballcocks.
Over the five-year period (1991-96), the program targets are to reduce
unaccounted for water by about 15? to 201. The target will be achieved through
direct labour works by NWSC (Force Account), through contractors, and formal leak
assessment and control programs.



- 69 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 9
(a) Service Connections (Reduction Target 10%)
By Force Account      Elapsed Time
Activity                    (FA) or Contract (C)      (months)
Repair visible leaks                       (FA)                  (24)
Replace 15 mm GI service lines
with polyethylene/rigid polyethylene
100 mm, 50 and 20 mm pipes
located at least 0.9 m deep under
roads and at least 0.6 m elsewhere.
Minimum size distribution mains to
be 100 mm PVC (BS Grade E)
or cement lined ductile iron (DI)
pipes. Meter to be located at least
300 mm above ground.                       (C)                   (48)
Locate and record illegal
connections                                (FA)                  (24)
Install ballcocks in ground
and overhead tanks on premises             (C)                   (12)
Replace/repair "on-premise"
wastage                                     (FA)                 (24)
Regularise illegal connections             (C)                   (24)
Remove additional connections
to premises; only one connection
per plot is to be permitted                (C)                   (24)
In view of the prevailing iron problem in the northern wellfields, replacement
of 15 mm galvanized iron (GI) service lines should be commenced in the Patan
area. The 50 mm and 15 mm polyethylene pipes specifications should ensure that
they are able to withstand appropriate pressures.   Eliminate 80 mm diameter
pipes.
(b)   Frequent Meter Cleaning Program
(Until Resolution of iron problem)
Meter cleaning bi-monthly                   (C)             continuous



- 70 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 9
By Force Account      Elapsed Time
Activity                    (FA) or Contract (C)      (months)
(c)   Distribution System (Reduction Target 4?)
Refine distribution system records           (FA)            continuous
Repair visible leaks                          (FA)               (24)
Detect and repair leaks using
sounding equipment                           (FA)                (24)
Replace old/corroded mains                    (C)                (48)
Install mortar lining in DI pipes            (C)                 (48)
Repair/replace leaking valves                (PA)                (12)
Install new valves (for future
leak detection program)                      (PA)                (24)
Repair ground and elevated
reservoirs and treatment plant               (C)                 (24)
10.       Polyethylene or high density polyethylene pipes should be used for
service lines.   Use only cement morter lined DI pipes, PVC (BS Grade E) or
equivalent for 100 mm and above for distribution mains, as appropriate. Future
mains should be laid with at least one meter cover above the crown of the pipe.
(d)   Public Standposts (Reduction Target 1Z)
By Force Account      Elapsed Time
Activity                    (FA) or Contract (C)      (months)
Meter all public standposts                   (FA)               (12)
Install self-closing taps (replace
continuously, if necessary)                  (FA)             continuous
Form User Committees                                             (12)
(e)   Leakage Assessment and Control Program
Consultancy for leak assessment
and control to achieve target
reductions                                   (C)                 (36)



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 9
OUT IDE THE VALLEY TOWNS (JULY 1991 - JUNE 1996)
11.       The following is planned for nine outside-the-Valley towns:
(a)   Service Connections (Reduction Target 10Z)
Activities described in 8 (a) in
9 towns outside Kathmnandu Valley            (FA)            continuous
(b)   Meter Cleaning Program
Meter cleaning in selected towns at a
frequency to be determined                   (PA)               (30)
(c)   Leak Assessment and Control Program
Consultancy for leak assessment and
control in Pokhara and Dharan                (C)                (24)
C. HMAAGEMENT SUPPORT
12.       The proposed strategy for implementation of this component calls for
(a) the placing of a small interdisciplinary team of experts in NWSC for a two-
year period; (b) to be followed over the next two years by short-term missions
of the same experts plus other specialized consultants as needed. A contractual
arrangement with an operating water authority that has previous experience in
implementing similar projects in other developing countries, preferably in Asia,
would be sought. Following completion of the contract, it is anticipated that
a twinning arrangement would follow.
13.       The initial core team will consist of five experts: (a) a Management/
Water Institution Specialist; (b) a Financial Management Specialist; (c) an
Operations and Maintenance Engineer; and (d) a Manpower Development/Training
Specialist; and (e) specialist in Construction Supervision. During their period
of residence in Nepal, the team will be assisted by short-term consultants
specialized in such areas as leak detection and control, water treatment, and
other fields to be determined.
14.       The team members are expected to serve in the dual capacity of advisors
to and co-workers with NWSC management. Experience with similar projects in the
past has shown that expatriate experts who serve purely and solely as advisors
often have little influence and impact. At the same time, it is counter-
productive for project experts to take over line responsibilities. The objective
of the experts is to develop a close working relationship with NWSC staff for the
purpose of transferring their skills and technology, not to take over local
functions. This will admittedly involve a delicate bal.ncing of advisory and
operational functions, and will require careful selection of the team members.



- 72 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 9
The purpose of the proposed arrangement is to ensure that specialists with
experience in an operating water authority are made available to NWSC, and to
ensure the required continuity between the two implementation phases.
15.       Given the importance to be attached to management improvements to
achieve the longer term objectives of developing a stronger institution, the
signing of a contract for the engagement of the Management Support Team should
be a priority.
D. CONSUMER EDUCATION AND COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
16.       NWSC has been making efforts recently to foster community participation
through cost sharing for sewer construction, to handle consumer complaints more
efficiently, and improve consumer relations generally through a mass media
campaign. NWSC aims to strengthen this effort by encouraging communities to act
in partnership on consumer issues, and particularly on how a strengthened public
relations/education program might be utilized to solve some of the problems
facing  the  sector.   The participation and contribution of women  in the
communities would be emphasized.
17.       Under these initiatives, NWSC has commenced construction of a ward-
based sewerage system with community participation. Under this program, wards
may apply for construction of a sewer system provided at least 502 of the cost
is paid by the community. To qualify, wards are required to form a construction
committee which collects 50% of the estimated cost from the community and shares
responsibility with NWSC for supervision of the contractor and approves the final
bill before NWSC pays the contractor. The balance of the construction cost is
met from HMG budgetary contributions to NWSC.   After the system has been
constructed, each participating homeowner must then arrange separately for a
connection to his home.
18.       While a sense of ownership is imparted with the sharing of the cost by
the community, the schemes suffer from several major defects. The schemes are
not necessarily integrated into the existing sewer system or is ultimate
treatment and disposal planned.   Construction is not carried in a competent
technical manner so the intended benefits are not always realized.   Ward
committees and NWSC often lack the technical knowledge and expertise to supervise
contractors.
19.       Under the project, the current Complaints Office of the NWSC will be
expanded as a Consumer Relations Unit, whose staff will include women, to enable
it to carry out information/education/public relations programs. It will include
specialists in health education, womens' involvement, consumer relations, a.,d
mass media. The office will be assisted by two advisory committees--one composed
of residents in selected local governments, and a technical advisory committee
which will include NWSC managers from various departments within the
organization. A qualified national expert will be contracted to assist the unit
chief in designing and launching the programs, and in preparing the terms of
reference for and negotiating with appropriate non-governmpntal organizations
(NGOs) to implement the hands-on education programs in variL-s wards. Assistance
by a United Nations  Volunteer  is also envisaged.    Local  and expatriate



- 73 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 9
consultants will be employed to provide required training to NWSC staff and
selected NGOs, and for other specialized tasks as may be needed.
20.       The unit would plan and implement mass media camoaigns and, through
coordination with Ward Chairmen and NGOs, carry out grass-roots educat4on
activities, such as formation of Water and Sanitation Users' Committees, school
programs, and door-to-door campaigns. Communities would be encouraged to assist
NWSC in a variety of ways, such as leak detection and prevention of clogged
sewers. Women's participation on decision-making committees (each committee to
have at least two women) and in consumers health and education would be
particularly encouraged.
21.       The unit's mandate would be to develop community participation and
consumer education activities in Kathmandu's wards over a period of four years.



- 74 -                         Annex 11
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.        This Annex sets out the major assumptions which were in the
financial projections representing the first eight years of the FYDP.
Terms and Conditions of Finance for the FYPP
2.        FYDP onlending is at a 9% interest rate with 15 years repayment from
the end of the grace period, except for the future water source project for
Kathmandu Valley, which is 25 years. The grace period for each component of
the FYDP is 4 years from the start of the component. Components of the FYDP
are financed using a loan/eqtuity mix as follows:
Water Supply                          :   50l50
Technical Assistance and Sanitationt   0/100
Demand
3.        Water and sewerage demand inside the Valley is assumed to be as
follows, where consumption of water is the difference between water produced
and water unaccounted for:
Water Consumption       No. of Connections
Year                   (Mld)                  (Sewers)
1991                   55.3                 8,498
1992                   61.3                 9,648
1993                   64.9                11,898
1994                   78.9                14,648
1995                   78.9                18,448
1996                   80.9                21,048
1997                   80.9                21,048
1998                   82.9                21,048
Tariffs
4.        The tariffs applied are those set out in Tables 3.2 and 3.3 of the
main report.
5.        Connection charges (NRs.) are as follows:
Size of Connection (mm)          Deposit             Charge
15                          2,500               500
25                          5,000               700
40                         12,000               900
50                         23,000            1,200
75                         52,000            1,800
100                        100,000             3,000
Sewerage charges equal 502 of the water charges throughout the period,
reflecting a doubling of the existing structure of tariffs.



_75                           Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
Working Capital
6.        The number of days sales for receivables is assumed to fall by
stages from 250 in 1991 to 60 in 1995 and to remain constant thereafter.
Similarly, the number of days cost of payments falls from 700 in 1991 by
stages to 60 in 1995 and remains constant thereafter. The minimum cash
reserve is assumed to be 15? of costs.
Inflation and Exchange Rates
7.        Inflation rates are as follows:
Year                 Domestic (Nepal)          Fo..eign
1991-96                   7.4Z                      3.42
(average)
The exchange rate is fixed at Rs. 30.2 per US$1.00 throughout the FYDP period.
Collection Efficiency
8.        Collection efficiency (total demand) is assumed to rise by stages to
872 in 1993 and to remain constant thereafter.
Depreciation
9.        Depreciation varies by rcomponent to reflect the asset life and is 2?
per annum for wells, distribution improvements and sewerage; 2.52 per annum
for water treatment; and 102 per annw.m for facilities, and meter
rehabilitation.
OPerations and Maintenance Costs
10.       These costs are projections of existing costs with additions to
reflect the progressive implementation of the FYDP. An annual manning
efficiency improvement of 12 per annum is assumed to apply.



NEPAL
UR9AN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
Income and Expenditure
(NR9. (ur~rent) mill ions)            Actual   Actual   Actual EstimatedProjected
1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1998     1994     1995     1996      1997     1908
REVENUE
Water Charnes                           24.08    29.14    81.68    48.29    92.23   127.18   168.54   209.84   280.82   286.44  838.79
Sewerage C8r9                            0.21     0.38     0.24     0.40      0.81     2.46     8.78     4.48      6.84    10.86    12.61
Other                                    9.61     5.78     7.02     7.28      9.20     8.00     9.14    10.40    11.88    17.47    20.26
HUG Subsidy                                                        10.00    22.00
Total                          83.90    85.22    88.89 -6.95   124.24   187.88   176.41   224.70   249.49   298.77   368.6B
OPERATING EXPENSES
Board Expenses                           7.11     8.88     9.01      3.84    10.82    11.04    11.78    12.62    18.34    14.21    14.48
Labor                                   18.87    18.89    86.26    b.43 8    71.84    78.47    86.82    94.96   104.46   114.89   126.88
Electricity                             10.91     7.51    18 72    18.88    18.88    16.21    16.78    18.41    20.25    22.27    24.50
Chemicals                                2.11     6.94    ii.b7     4.72      4.72     6.94     6.87     9.32    11.18    18.89    14.48
Other Expenses                           5.43     5.91     6.01     7.58      7.58     8.02     8.64     9.10      9.89    10.82    10.99
Total                          41.93    47.60 -89.7    89.16           107.74   119.89   11.78   144.80   158.88   175.00   190.88
OPERATING SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)             (8.08)  (12.88)  (80.68)  (28.20)   16.50    17.94    44.88    80.40    90.61   118.69   177.73
Less: Deproeiation                      10.58    12.08    22.80    24.68    24.58    24.88    24.86    56.84    70.48    71.14   119.87
Less: In Ira                             8.44     8.52     4.18     4.18      4.18     8.00     5.09     4.98    45.47    45.23    45.20
Less: Doubtful debts                     0.11     0.07     0.07     0.11    0.11       0.11     0.10     0.07      0.09    0.11      0.15
NET SURPWUS/(DEFICIT)                  (22.16)  (28.00)  (57.78)  (52.07)  (12.87)  (10.05)   14.61    19.56   (25.48)    2.21    12.51
Memorandum items
1. Working ratio                          1.2      1.4      1.8      1.4       0.9      0.9      0.7      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.6
2. Operating ratio                        1.5      1.7      2.4       1.7      1.1      1.1      0.9      0.9       0.9      0.8      0.8
8. Ratio of operating cost plus greater of depreciation or debt servie plus working capital to revenues
1.4      2.2     (.5)      2.6       1.6      1.8      0.9      1.0      0.9       0.9      0.9
IXX :
0
P h



NEPAL
UBANM WATER SUPPLY AND SUNTATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
BalIance Sbeet
(lEa8. (current) mill II ons)                         ~    ~ ~
r etual  Actual  Actual Estimatedrojected
low    1989    1090    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1996    1997   1Ron
ASSETS
Net Fixed assets                    985.09  769.96  820.78  823.89  847.06  3808.17  1769.29 2276.41  2237.36 3390.04  4032.39
Work in proero.                     469.90    0.00   64.61   90.01  130.58  832.70  898.43  977.31 1890.68 1426.46 1649.84
Sub-total                   822.98  789.96  071.29  908.70  96.568  8536.87 2667.?2  8262.72 4128.03 4816.60 5081.78
Current sse4te
Cash                              49.42   09.06   19.11    5.90   10.31   28.00   46.76   62.61   71.88  134.89  165.65
Stores                            90.84   92.02  114.68  109.70   94.60   96.70   96.98   98.36  100.61  108.24   106.93
Debtors                            18.18   20.17   19.68   22.05    81.19   29.22   24.21   80.90   88.33   49.62   63.61
Advances A deposits               43.06   45.87   16.09   88.58   82.44   97.60  114.60  133.72  165.10  201.30  241.68
TOTAL ASSETS                        1023.6  1017.47  1040.77 1074.98  1204.12  1881.45 29s9.22 8668.21 4508.95 580C.86 8246.28
LIABILITIES
___________
Share capital                        116.00  118.00  119.00  116.00  116.00  118.00  118.00  118.00  118.00  118.00  118.00
NoG equity                          467.60  5.06.8   509.10  68.87  862.71  1408.62 2178.28 2489.26 2999.9  3419.62 8843.49
Existing log term Ioe_.             498.07  472.45  448.82  426.20  401.6   877.96  854.34  30.72  807.09  283.47  259.86
low lng term looI                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.11  197.80  431.14  782.89  1220.60 1659.94  2074.72
mm Opet etig Suboidy                                           10.00   22.00
Retained eerinQs lose               (126.66) (158.68) (211.41) (268.46) (276.05) (286.90) (271.29) (251.72) (277.15) (274.95) (262.44)
-   -------------- ------~~~~~~~~~~--- ------
Seb-totel                   955.99  942.756  50.57  958.69 1128.65  1810.98 2856.48 8467.66 4374.40 6142.09 6083.62
Deposits for mmc ceaemctios           10.18   18.32   26.09   88.78   86.78   47.60   78.90   69.97  119.10  160.82  199.0e
Creditors                            61.76   64.46   62.01   77.86   86.59   20.67    7.15    7.67    8.84    9.14   10.06
Short-tem leas                        0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    O.Co    0.00    0.00    0.00
OMaer eurrest liabilities             5.49    1.96    2.10    2.26    2.25    2.40    2.74    2.92    8.11    3.31         8.53
__~~~~~~ _-    ---__  _ ------- ---- -------
TOTAL LZADILITIIS                   108.56  1017.47  1040.77 1074.98  1204.12  1881.46 2939.22 8568.21  4603.95 65306.8  6246.28
30 0
1 Currnot ratio                        8.0      8.0     1.9      1.6     2.9      8.6     8.4      3.1     2.9      8.0     2.7          0 -
2. Debt to equity ratioM()            1.06    1.00    0.89    0.61    0.59    0.47    0.41    0.47    0.U4    0.68    0.68



MEPAL
URBAN WATER SWPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
MEPAL WJATER SUPLY CORPORATION
Sources and Applications of Funds
w e -   ( s t r t }   B i   I   I   i " s )   -  - - - - - - - -  --  - ----- - - - - - - - -
Actual  Actual   Actual Eatiesaterojected
3968     l989     1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    198
SOURCES
Operqting Surplus/(Deficit)
bfore int.h dep.                    (8.08)  (12.B8)  (80.68)  (23.20)   16.50  .17.94   44.68   80.40   80.61   1i8.69   177.73
Less: debt service                   3.44     3.52    10.20   27.80   27.80   28.62    28.71   28.66   09.96   84.78   86.69
Lees: change in corking cap.        82.68    39.61    (9.12)    6.88    17.16  (11.68)  (0.64>  65.38    14.43    0.90   61.61
Add: depreciation                   10.68    12.08    22.80   24.68   24.68   24.88   24.88   66.84   70.49   71.14  119.97
Sub-total                    (83.47)  (48.68)   (8.98)  (33.80)   (8.68)  27.78    41.39   61.81   76.71  104.16  149.40
External sources
Share capital                        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00         0.00    0.00     0.00
HAG equity                           0.00   38.88   89.18    78.71   183.84  560.91   769.62  816.03  511.70  419.86   423.97
Loans                               41.11     0.00     0.00    0.00    10.11   197.19  268.84  801.25  444.11   369.44   d78.78
HAG Operating Subsidy                                          10.00   22.00
TOTAL SOURCES                           7.64    (5.80)  80.22    60.41   212.07  766.86  1094.86  667.59  1032.62  893.24  1052.05
APPUCATION
Capital eseemditure \1                  0.00     0.00     8.00    78.71   198.95   788.10  1068.46  816.28  985.81   789.09  902.65
Opt Service
Principal                            0.00     0.00    0.00    28.62   28.62   28.62   28.62   23.62   24.48   89.66   41.39
Interest                             8.44     8.62    10.20    4.16    4.18    8.00    5.09    4.93   45.47   46.28   46.20
Cbasg In eeb eservo                     4.20    (8.82)  62.02   (51.10)   (9.68)    1.14    12.88   22.76    6.76   19.87   62.81
-    ---       --------    -----    ------------------------------------
TOTAL APPICATIQS                        7.64    (6.80)  80.22   50.41   212.07   765.86  1094.86  07.59  1082.62  993.24  1062.06
1. IDA-financed expeniturea             -        -        -        -       71.84   22.48  297.64   338.16  349.32  411.86  454.74
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _



- 79 -
Annex 12
Pa;e 1 of 2
NEPAL
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts and Kitigating Measures
Component or Item                 Impact                        Solution
Water supply system         Increased pressures          Complementary leakage
rehabilitation.             will cause more losses       reduction program
in system.                  incorporated in project.
Increased quantities        Clean and improve drains;
will create disposal        connect as many consumers to
problems.                   drainage as possible, and
promote construction of
soakaways. 10,000 new sewer
connections provided under
project.
Disruption of               Careful selection of routes,
pedestrian and vehicle      timing of construction,
traffic, and                timely road cutting
construction problems.      permission and good
manoe-ment during
cowistruction.  Procedures
for road cutting agreed at
negotiations.
Ensure treated water        Increased supply hours and
is not polluted ln the      relocate pipes in
system.                     potentially polluting
situations.  Water and waste
water monitoring included in
project.
Ensure drinking water       Good plant design and
meets drinking water        operations; monitor and
standards, especially       control plant outputs and
reduction of iron,          train staff.  Rehabilitation
ammonia and manganese.      of treatment plants and new
treatment plants for
groundwater included in the
project.
Disposal  f waste           Disposal to be
water C:lee                  environmentally sound.
Ensuro Q.t'eao and          Fencing and other protective
spring - .. .@ atp          measures at Intakes provided
prote -.                     in project.



- 80 -
Anne: 12
Page 2 of 2
Component or Item                 Impact                        Solution
Sewer System                Combined sewer system        Interception of about nine
Rehabilitation/On-site      discharges sewerage to      main drains and diversion of
Sanitation                  rivers.                      sewerage to treatment plants
provided in project.
Rivers pollution (near      Repair of ruptured sewer as
Kirtipur pumping            a priority action is a
stations)due to             project component.
ruptured sewer main.        Pollution control measures
in the longer tenm in
project.
Ensure final effluent       Regular monitoring of
quality meets               discharge from treatment
acceptable standards.       plants, and river water;
establish laboratory
facilities and train staff.
Laboratory facilLtles
improved under project.
Insanitary conditions       Connect as many houses to
created by lack of          sever system (10,000 in
adequate sanitation.        project) where available
through incentives; program
for on-site sanitation for
over 30,000 families
lncluded in project.
Leaching from on-site       Proper location of on-site
sanitation                  systems relative to drinking
:ontamina&ing               water sources; special
groundwater.                design measures for on-site
sanitation in Terai whlch
has hlgh groundwater levels.
Consultant assistance
provided under project.
Construction impact on      Timing of construction.
pedestrian and              planning for disruptions and
vehiclees.                  good construction
management.
Disposal of sludge           If properly operated, the
from sewage treatment       sludge from the two
plants.                      treatment plants would be
fully dlgeoted and not
create slgnificant
environmental impact.



-81-                            Annex 13
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
UMAJ  WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REZABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis Date
Calculations for the Water Supply component
Estimated as of January 1991
1990    Increase
Actual  Actual vs
Eatiinted
Operating Costs 1990
gatbmandu    Towms
Valley     Outside                     Percent
Towns      Valley    Total   Total   Change
----------(  mLllion)--
Total Operating Costs                   35.4        19.0       54.4   69.6      27.9
of which
Board Expenses                         7.0         2.0        9.0    9.0       0.0
Labor                                 11.5        11.0       22.5   36.3      61.3
Electricity                            6.8         1.4        8.2   13.7      67.1
Chemicals                              5.6         2.7        8.3    4.6    -44.6
Others                                 4.5         1.9        6.4    6.0    - 6.3
Variable (1)                            25.5        14.3       39.8   51.5      29.5
Less Costs of Sewerage (62)(2)           1.5         0.0        1.5    2.0      29.5
Costs of Water                          24.0        14.3       38.2   49.5      29.5
Production (million/ae) (3)             34.4        18.5       52.9   52.9       0.0
Average Variable Cost (NRs/mR)           0.70       0.77       0.72   0.94      29.5
Est. Average Variable Cost,
Border Prices (4)                      0.63        0.69       0.65   0.84      29.5
Adjust. Factor to Act. 1990 (5)        1,295
1990 Avg. Var. Cost Border Prices    0.81           0.90       0.84
Water Charges                           1989        1989       1969   1990
Actual
Total Water Charges                     18.1        10.9       29.0   31.6        9.0
Consumption (millions/nP)                20.2        10.7      30.9   30.9        0.0
Average Water Charge                    0.90        1.02       0.94   1.02        9.0
Adjust. Factor to Act. 1990 Charge   1.09
1990 Water Cf6rge, by Town              0.98        1.11       1.02
Calculatio  of l991 Charge
Including lcttrese 80Z Jan. 1991        1.76        2.00       1.84
Including Increase 5O0 during 1991
(before effectLveness)                2,64        3.00       2.76
1991 Tariff, Border Prices (4)          2.37        2.70       2.49
1991 Tariff, 1990 Border Prices (7)  2.15           2.44       2.25
e Sae totalo may not Md  due to rounding
e Date are not available by ores (valley, octelds) for 160 eatualt
(1) Operating Costa, ls word owaso sod 'on M  of laboe cost
(2) Actual 1M0 assum  that ewer is sass wpeetaese s In 10 Coet
*             (8) Assume  production and conoumtlon were eae  is 19M and 1M
(4) Stoadard conversion factor * 0.e
(6) Asom  Inrese In actual over eatimum  ma the sae or each ctee as
for the overell total (on which data are oesileabo)
(a) Aososes increse In actual 100 over ectasl  IM   the eaose for eac town
so for the overall total
(7) Inflation 1900 to 1901 estlated at 10-.5



LIBA WATER    LY AND SANIFATON RE*ABUTATION PROJECT
To '  ad    Ke8mwdu Vaefy
Pnfdc8en cfd Ceoen E U               Costs 6 Rseepts (bordo pns)                            Net Benefits (bordet prices)
Yb&                                                Costs          Reois   aasn.   Benefits   Benefis   Benetits         Invesrm ean  Costs
PmdLcdon          C      _mop"     bnstment Icemental  (tncf8-    300%      200%      400%     DaVed    -10%        20%      10%       20%
Irotl   bwaenwntal   Teed   anomntg            Opseamw*    metntal)dP dtaufoResss olResn   OnYei
Now on ycj      H3 fl M    l               Rs MD= NRs bAtion Pls E*lo NRn Ubon NRs tAion NRs ewAlron  NRs   Lgonn NRs  0heton NRs Muaon NR s hon NRs Won
la91       34.4                20.2
1092       34.0   0.4           g*.4     i                                                       -o.e  0.3  4.7  74.9    -79.6  70 2  -88.8    -66 1  .57 2  .83.8    -92.7
1093       38.1   1.7          39.1             84.8       1.4       7.S     .73.5    -81.1    -66.0         -80 9     -64 1    -*.4 6    .83.0    -92 5
18194      41.2   0.8          38.6   8.        92.0       5.5      19.5    -41.9    -60.4    -23.4          -70 7     -32 7    -23 5     -51.1    -60.3
1095       40.8   6.4          26.S   6.8       69.7       5.2      18.5     -10.4    J37.9      -0.9        -19.7    -12.4      -5 4     -26.4    .33 3
loo        40.8   6.4          36.5   6.8       61.1       5.2      20.1     .6.0      -26.1     14.0        -to a      0 1       62      .12.2    .18 3
1099       40.8   3.1          36.8   9.3       25.4       4.9      20.1      30.0      9.9      50.0         29.7     32.5      35 0      27.4     24 9
1083       40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1      25.4       4.9      21.7      34.7      13.0     56.3         30.0     37 2      39 7      32.1     29.6
1019       40.5   0.1          30.3  10.1                  4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60 1      60 1      60.1     60 1
2000       40.5   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1      60.'     60.1
2001       40.5   6.1          30.    10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1      60.1     60 1
2002       40.8   6.1          30.s   10.1                 4.0      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60 I     60 1      60.1      60.1     60.1
203        40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4       1.7         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1      60 1
2004       40.8   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60 1
2005       40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60.1     sC 1      60.1      60.1      60.1
2006       40.5   6.1          30.3   10 1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60.1     60 1      60 1      60.1     60.1
2007       40      Is          303   10.1                  4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         601      60.1      60.1      601      601
2008       4 05   6 1          30 3   10 1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     01.7         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60.1
2003       40 0     I          30 3   10 1                 4 9      21.7      60 1     38.4      81.7         60 1     60 1      601       60 1     60.1      C
2010       405    0            30 3   10 1                 4 9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60 1     60.1      60.1      60 1     60 1
2011       40      0 1         30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60 1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60 1
2012       d0      0 S1        30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60 i      60.1     601
2013       40 5    6.1         30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7     "0.1       30.4     81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1      60 1     60 1
2014       40      6 S.1       30.3   10.1                 4.9      2t.7      60.1      36.4     C1.7         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60.1
2015       40.5   0.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     36.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60 1
2016       40.5   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60 1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60.1
2017       40.3   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1      38.4     81.7         60.1     60 t      60.1      60 1     60 1
201J       40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1      60.1     60 1
2010       40.8   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.0      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1      60.1     60.1
2020       40.5   5.1          30.3  16.1                  4.0      21.7       0.1     38.4      91.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
2021       40.5   6.1          30.3   19.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60. 1    60.1      60.       60 1     60.1
2022       40.5   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     t'0.4     81.7         60 1     60 1      60 1      60.1     60.1
3023       40.6   6.1          30.3  10.1                  ^.9      21.7      60.1     30.4      81.7         60.1     60 1      60.1     60 1      60.1
2024       40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7     B0.1      38.4      8'.?         60.1     60.1      60.1      60.1     60.1
2025       40.5   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     36.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
2026       40.6   f.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     35.6      81.7         60.1     60.1      60 1     60.1      60.1
2027       40.5   6.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      01.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
2028       40.8   .1           30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      60.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
20O2       40.6   6.1          30.3  10.1                  4.0      21.7      60.1     30.4      01.7        60.1      60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
2o30       40.5   5.1          10.3   10.1                 4.0      21.7     60.1      38.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1
2031       40.5   8.1          30.3   10.1                 4.9      21.7      00.1     38.4      81.7         60.1     60.1      60.1     60.1      60.1 
b16lb               51.6                30.0     341.1     41.7      178.4    152.3    -28.0    330.7    106.3    186.4    220.5    118.2         84.1         9 9
PIPSWMI                                                                       2 2%~~~~~~~~~~~~1h.  AW  131  13AS41 111A051 001  lie ASM A-
* -gu    W b     Ca d 1 P  Can1md        1*  0, 4, w
* bsums per to    Cste   Pm   I bkd.  _  P  Psrt                               0.O1
* R      *we     WCai sO            11 8~s  )                                   2.15



URN IWAlER SWR.LYAJD SANtTATION RBiASiJTAATIN PROJECT
Tocns Qafofs ft Katma'iu Vale
Rftxdmid C'wnpj Eabniateis          Caisp A Reprsm (mwd FIs)N
Yen  I                                            Costs          Retwas   t:San.  Beneits  Benefits  Benefits        InVeStfmlefnt Costs
PnxhWon           C    olm       bInesment tncrementa  (Incre.    300%    200%      400% DS aed    .10%         -20%      10%      20%
Tow   Iteemsnt    Totd   nasmensw             Opeating   metal)  o t Reves of Re   of Revenes OCYer
Mtilh NS IMe  13 Unio  03 MElon M13 NRS hb  NRs Won NRs Mon MRS Mbon NRs MeIan NRs When MRs Mlaon tMRs  hbon NRt s nthion MRs Mln   it then
191      19.6               10.6
1082    18.6       0.0      11.0      0.8      67.5      0.0       0.4     -66.4    -66.8    *66.1        -67.5    -59.7    -52 9     -73.2    -90.0
1093    18.8       0.0      11.2      0.4      259.9     0.0       1.0    -256.9   *257.9   -255.9       -25.88   -230.9   -204.9   -282.9   -308.9
1994    19.        1.0      12.1     91.       220.0     0.9       3.t    -212.3   -215.4   -209.2    -217.8   -190.2   -168.1   -234.4   -256.4
toga    32.1      13.5      20.2      .4      18.5       12.2     23.0    -132.6   -1SS.6   *10^.6    -181.0   -113.6    *94.7   -151.5   -170.5
109e    34.8      16.2      22.6     I1.,     417.6    14.6       29.4    -347.1   -375.5   -31B.?    -360.9   -305.3   -263.5   -388.0   -430.6
1097    41.0      22.4      27.1      18.2    454.1      20.2     39.6    -355.4   *395.0   -315.7       -383.4   *310.0   -264.6   -400.8   -446 2
logo    46.6      30.0      32.6     21.7     Z`3.3      27.0     53.0    .231.1   -284.2   -178.1       .264.6   -194.8   -158.5   -267.5   -303.8
toe9    57.8      38.0      39.1     28.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        132.1    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2000    57.8      36.8      39.1      28.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2001    57.6      36.0      39.1      28.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2002    157.6     38.9      39.1      28.3               35.0     6l.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    1i2.2    112.2    172.2    172.2
2003    57.5      38.9      39.1      28.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2004    57.5      36.9      39.1     29.3                35.0     se.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2005    57.8      38.0      39.1      26.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2005    57 5      38.9      39.1      28.3               35.0     69.1    172.2    103.1    241.3         172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2007    575       389       39 1      2e.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2008    515       38 e      39 1     26.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    t72.2
2000    51 g      38 9      39 1      28 3               35.0     89.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2010    S1 s      38 9      30.1     28.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    10J.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2      72.2    t72.2      D
2011    575       38 8      39.1     28.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2012    5 s       38.9      39.1     28.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2013    Sy5       38.9      39.1     28.3                39.0     60.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    .72.2
2014    575       38.9      39.1     28.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2016    57.5      33.9      39.1     28.3                35.0     68.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2016    87.5      a.9       39.1     26.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2017    57.5      3.9 0     3.1       28.3               35.0     69.1    172.2    103.1    241.3         172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2019    57.5      38.9      39.1     29.3                35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
201O    57.5      83.0      89.1    2a.3                 38.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2020    57.5      38.0      39.1     38.3                39.0     89.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2021    57.5      38.0      39.t     28.3                35.0     59.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2      72.
2022    87.6      36.0      38.1     28.3               38.0      69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
202s    57.6      36.0      39.1     28.3                95.0     69.1    172.2    103.1    241.3         172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2024    57.5      31.0      89.1      29.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2025    57.6      38.0      39.1     2.3                 35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2026    67.6      W.0       30.1      29.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2027?   57.5      1.9       30.1      29.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
20268    57.6      8.0      39.1      20.3               35.0     69.1     172.2    103.1    241.9        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2023    87.6      35.9    32.1        29.3               35.0     89.1     172.2    103.1    241.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2
2080    67.6      36.9    e3.1       29.3               35.0      69.1     172.2    103.1    24t.3        172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.
2031    VIV6      36.9      30.1     26.3                35.0     69.1    172.2    103.1    241.3         172.2    172.2    172.2    172.2    172.
236.3              174.4    1273.6   21$.3    426.7   -212.0    -37.9    213.7   -311.9   -84.6    42.8    -339.3   -466.7 * 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   9 1 %   S A lt.   1 1.8 %   l d %   0 2 1 6.   1 0 5 1 6 1475%   .     4 %
*      bA_ b_Cos at WVt Cmtsmted (bede pi1e. N"RO3W. 10% dsowU rare)          8.54
bwmb~m osmm Cad M W pmfw. Bodo dm pow"0.90                                                                                          0 W.
pt kg 0armaw. am" Pdm  (Nnew                                         2.44
g~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 84 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
UR5AM WATnE SUPPLY AND SANITATION UZHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available In the ProJect Pile
Feasibility Report:
1.    Service improvements in Kathmandu. Lalitpur and Bhaktapur and Management
Support to WSSC, by Binnie & Partners:
(a)   Final Summary Report. January 1990.
(b)   Final Report: Fifteen-Year Development Programme and Detailed Phase
I (1991-1995), January 1990.
(c)   Final  Report:    Appendix  A  - Management  Support,  OperatLons,
Financial and Training, May 1989.
(d)   Final Report:  Appendix 8 - Distribution System Models, May 1989.
(e)   Final Report:  Appendix C - Leakage Control, Hay 1989.
(f)   Final Report:  Appendix D - Consumer Data Base, May 1989.
(g)   Final Report: Appendix E - Water Quality and Treatment, Kathmandu-
Lalitpur, May 1989.
(h)   Final Report: Appendix F - Bhaktspug, Hay 1989.
(i)   Final Reports  Appendix H - Santation, May 1989.
(j)   Final Reports  Appendix K - Kathmandu Model Report, May 1989.
(k)   _A1l Report:  Appendix L - Lalitpur Model Report, May 1989.
(1)   Final Report: Appendix H - Out of Valley Towns-Further Information,
January 1990.
(n)   Sample Bidding Document - Vehicles and Equipment, January 1990.
(n)   Sample Bidding Document - valves, January 1990.
(0)   Financial Planning H4o,0.  '!eeru Manual, January 1990.
Note:  Not used Appendices G, I ani



- 85 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
2.    Nepal Water Supply Corporation Act, 1989.
3.    Fifteen-Year Development Program, by WSSC, July 1989.
4.    WSSC Budget 1989/90.
5.    WSSC Balance Sheet FY 85/86 and FY 86/87.
6.    WSSC Cash Flow Statement FY 87/88.
7.    A Report on the Revision of Water Tariffs, by WSSC, 12/88.
8.    Water Billing from Exis,ting and Proposed Tariff Rate.
9.    A Report on WSSC Accounting System, by A. Maduskar (Consultant to IDA),
11/89.
10.   Summary Operational and Financial Statements prepared on Computerized
Financial Model developed by Binnie & Partners for WSSC, 11/89.
11.   Detailed Project Cost Tables.
12.   Water Supply and Sanitation Study Report (Pokhrel, et al) 1987.
13.   Management Improvement Program Targets for NWSC, set by the Ministry of
Housing and Physical Planning.
14.   Groundwater Management Project in the Kathmandu Valley;  Final Report
Summary, September 1990, by Japan International Cooperation Agency.
I



IBRD 22087
_ 80,                                                                 82                                                                   840                                                                   860                     N  E P A  L                                    88
-                                              ,-                                                                                                                                                                       WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION REHABILITATION DROJECT
is    Project Towns
300                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R y  /  loads                                                                                  300
DARCHULA                                                         /                                                                                                                 -     Primory All-Wef"I,er H,ghways
-_/                                                                                                                 _____  _    Grovelled/Eorthen Rooads
Roads Under Construct,on
,--                                                                                                                        .       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toral
Airports.
F <8AITADI <)    1 AR  ,   i                          .   +--<       -s      <                                                                                          *      Internotonol                                                R.vers
'    Domestic (paved)                                      --     Ostroct Boundornes
>   __\_f  >iy  _  s  j g > a O Town Ponchlyats Zone Boundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                             Ton onc,ytsZonBondne
Dndeld d ro              s R                             Jumlo0   0-              i                                                                                                                 Zone Heodquarters                                            Development Regqon Boundories
J DAAHVA                                                            - -                         /                                                                                                   Notonal Capitol y-l                                          Internot,onol Boundornes
DOTI      \%
S,dpo,                                                                         L4
pu,                                                      lung                                th, -r
:'7ttA-o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h1_An '"   ''    -gh/    X
9   NHENPV   f  -\KAltAU                                       '-.\
> 99 Oharogodhi                                %                         1K       1                                                                        .    >t2!\   
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e1learl o 3h nkar                                        d I     her,gl,d  ,                                                                                                                                                                                        28,
28'                                                                                                     PyasM.Ev                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
CIC .rcs            Sol yKHJ84  \  ,7
'I-.  $ANKH.UWAS6BOIJ                              199C
roos 0000 5000 Oeeo p'epa,o JO0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<c   STE                                                                                                                                     'I
roe Wand Sara n s5350 eoc'us've ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~KAL~WIIGI                                                                 AN             Ln-
lo' 500 conrov.evce 00 100 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR  
on do'5 end's e,cajs'oo00 Os, '00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                                                      ILA
es 'rhe Iwldd8 see seNd te-s
W "re,ae Choecee Crofetron
Wyod'en 0tetossea                                                                           0          20          40          60       20            100  MILOETE
endo'seeoevto' 0' 8CODOCO0
each bas,nde 05                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~82'                                                         8 4e                                                                                                                                                               2!]
JANUARY 1990



