Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20606
INTENSIVE LEARNING MODEL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA 2239-NEP)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.5 MILLION (US$60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 15,2000
Infrastructure
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepal Rupee (NR)
US$1.00 = NRs.68 at closing
US$1.00 = NRs.30 at appraisal
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 to July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
CDP             Comprehensive Development Program
FYDP            Fifteen Year Development Program
DWSS            Department of Water Supply and Sewerage
GoF             Government of France
GTZ             Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
(Federal Republic of Germany's Agency for Technical
Cooperation)
HMGN            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
JICA            Japan International Cooperation Agency
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ILO             International Labor Organization
KoN             Kingdom of Norway
MC              Management Contract
MHPP            Ministry of Housing & Physical Planning
MSC             Management Support Contract
MST             Management Support Team
MTR             Mid Term Review
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NRs.            Nepali Rupees
NWSC            Nepal Water Supply Corporation
OAP             Operational Action Plan
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
PQ              Pre-qualification
PSPC            Private Sector Participation High Level Committee
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SIMS            Service Improvements and Management Support
UfW             Unaccounted for Water
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
WSP-IV          Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Hans M. Rothenbilhler
Sector Manager/Director:    Jonathan Kamkwalala
Teamn Leader:    Tashi Tenzing
Task Team Leader:    Tashi Tenzing
i



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    Project Data                                                                   1
2.     Principal Perforrnance Ratings                                                1
3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4.     Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          6
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             9
6.    Sustainability                                                                11
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8.    Lessons Learned                                                               14
9.    Partner Comments                                                              17
10.   Additional Information                                                        18
Annexes
Annex 1A.  Key Physical Indicators                                                  20
Annex lB.  Key Physical Indicators                                                  21
Annex 1C.  Operational Indicators                                                   22
Annex ID.  Financial Indicators                                                     22
Annex 1E.  Water Supply Production and Coverage                                     24
Annex 2A.  Project Costs and Financing                                              25
Annex 2B.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement                                 26
Annex 2C.  Project Financing by Component                                           27
Annex 3.   Economic Costs and Benefits                                              28
Annex 4A.  Bank Inputs - Missions                                                   29
Annex 4B.  Bank Inputs - Staff                                                      30
Annex 5.   Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6A.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 31
Annex 6B.  Changes in Government (1990-1999)                                        32
Annex 6C.  Changes in NWSC General Manager                                          33
Annex 7.   List of Supporting Documents                                             34
Annex 8.   Beneficiary Survey Results                                               35
Annex 9A.  Stakeholder Workshop Results                                             36
Annex 9B.  Stakeholder Workshop Process                                             37
Annex 9C.  Newspaper Clipping on the ICR Stakeholder Workshop                       38
Annex 10.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
ii
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1.    Project Data
Report date           June 15, 2000
Name                  Nepal Urban Water Supply & Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
LIC Number            Credit No.2239-NEP
Country/Department    Nepal/Infrastructure Operations Unit
Region                South Asia
Sector/Sub-sector     WU
KEY DATES
Original                          Revised/Actual
Draft IEPS                                                   August 1988
Appraisal          :       March 1989                        November 1989
Approval           :       May 7, 1991                       July 5, 1991
Effective          :       January 11, 1992                  October 15, 1992
MTR                :       November 18, 1996                 November 18, 1996
Closing            :       March 31, 1999                    March 31, 1999
Borrower           :       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Implementing Agency        Nepal Water Supply Corporation
Other Partners
(i)    United Nations Development Program; (ii) Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA); (iii)
Government of France; and (iv) Government of Norway
Ltaff                 Current                       At Appraisal
Vice President       Ms. Mieko Nishimizu             Mr. Attila Karaosmanoglu
Country Director     Mr. Hans M. Rothenbuhler        Mr. Shinji Asanuma (Director, AS 1DR)
Sector Director      Mr. Jonathan Kamkwalala (Acting) Mr. Martin J. Staab (Division Chief, AS IN)
Team Leader          Mr. Tashi Tenzing               Mr. Chandra Godavitame
ICR Primary Authors   Mr. Tashi Tenzing & Messrs. Tejbir S. Phool and Terry Hall (Consultants)
2.    Principal Performance Ratings
Outcome                         :  Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                  :  Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact    Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                .  Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance            :  Unsatisfactory
Quality at Entry - QAG             Unsatisfactory
Quality at Entry - ICR             Unsatisfactory
Project at Risk at any time         Yes
1



3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objectives:
3.1.1. The Bank and HMGN agreed that the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
(WSP-IV) would finance a time slice of the FYDP, with the Borrower and other donors picking up the
remaining parts. Consequently, the WSP-IV was designed to help HMGN strengthen the NWSC to meet
the sector's future demands. The project's objectives were to:
(a)   strengthen NWSC's technical, managerial, financial, and operations/maintenance capability;
(b)   increase utilization of existing systems through rehabilitation and extensions;
(c)   improve public health through;
(i) consumer education programs; and
(ii) improved quality and increased quantity of water to consumers.
3.1.2. The objectives were timely, clear, and important to the sector. The technologies proposed were
appropriate at the time and it was believed that the NWSC had the technical and administrative capacity
to oversee physical components with the assistance of the Management Support Team (MST) and design
supervision consultants.  Accordingly, the Bank incorporated a substantial technical assistance
component to strengthen the management capacity of NWSC. The Bank further required that a suitable
contract be signed with the MST before Credit effectiveness. Further, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR
page 26, para. 4.09) recognized that the operational and financial targets were demanding on the
Borrower and that there was a risk that the "HMGN and the NWSC will deviate from agreed operational
and financial targets, especially tariff increases".
3.1.3  Later developments showed that this project design contained a major flaw. It proposed that the
institutional issues affecting NWSC would be addressed by creating a new public sector institution
(NWSC) to replace the existing one (a similar approach to that adopted by previous IDA projects, which
had created WSSC and WSSB). The SAR indicated: "the NWSC Act will provide NWSC with greater
autonomy and authority compared to those of its predecessor agencies. It will have the ability to revise
and implement tariffs and charges without HMGN approval, and also to prosecute defaulters and
terminate services, if necessary." The risk that this autonomy would not be realized in practice was
recognized, as was the likelihood that this approach would not provide an adequate basis for institutional
reform, but the proposed mitigation strategy was inadequate. The Bank intended to address these risks
only through sector work and supervision.
3.1.4. Furthermore, the Bank incorrectly assessed the risk of HMGN and NWSC deviating from
operational and financial targets. This risk was considered manageable was because the Government was
believed to recognize that the ambitious FYDP goals could not be attained without greater resource
mobilization.
3.1.5. At the mid-term review (MTR), several components had suffered from delays and it became clear
that the institutional component had largely failed. Many remaining components could not be completed
in the remaining Credit schedule and consequently it was proposed that the objectives be revised as
follows:
(a)   to assist the Borrower to prepare a Management Contract (MC) in order to transfer the
responsibility for managing NWSC's operations to a qualified and experienced private sector
firm and thereby increase the efficiency and service delivery of NWSC;
2



(b)   to increase the availability of water in Kathrnandu Valley and Outside Valley Towns; and
(c)   to improve sewerage operations.
3.1.6. After some discussion, it was concluded that there was really no need to revise the project
objectives as the proposed objectives could be operationalized within the original objectives. However,
the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement were amended to reflect the restructuring
of the project through revision to project components and down sizing of the Credit.
3.2.   Revised Objective:
3.2.1. The objectives were not revised.
3.3.   Original Components:
3.3.1. The components designed at appraisal may be classified into three groups. The first group of
components was designed to provide institutional strengthening to the NWSC. The second group was
designed to increase utilization of the physical infrastructure in Kathmandu and to improve the health of
its residents. The third group was similarly designed to increase utilization of the physical infrastructure
of towns outside the valley. Specifically, the components were as follows:
(i)    For NWSC as a whole:
(a)    Management support, training, project design and supervision assistance (US$10.1
million) to be implemented via a Management Support Contract (MSC);
(ii)   For Kathmandu Valley Towns (US$51.9 million in three towns):
(a)    New source detailed design (US$3.9 million);
(b)    Water supply rehabilitation (US$24.3 million);
(c)    Ground water treatment (US$11.0 million);
(d)    Rehabilitation of sewer system, sewer connections, and sanitation (US$9.2 million);
(e)    Central facilities and plant (US$3.5 million).
(iii)   For Towns Outside Kathmandu Valley ($8.8 million in nine towns):
(a) Water supply rehabilitation (US$5.8 million);
(b) Sanitation (US$1.6 million);
(c) Facilities and plant (US$1.4 million).
3.3.2. The physical components were generally related to the stated objectives. The institutional
strengthening component envisaged the recruitment of a management support team from a reputed
foreign utility and hence was a slight improvement over the previous approach that had focussed largely
on providing technical consultantsl. Further, the WSP-IV sought to overcome the procurement problems
that had plagued previous IDA-financed projects by increasing the value of packages of contracts to
attract internationally reputed contractors. While the WSP-IV proposed these procurement changes, the
SAR did not discuss mechanisms for managing any weaknesses in their implementation and assumed that
the design consultants and the MST would address them. Unfortunately, this did not happen.
1     Ref.: Project Completion Report (PCR) 9/29/89, page 24, para. 5.07
3



3.4. Revised Components (following mid term review):
3.4.1. At the MTR, the original project components were scaled down. Two small components funded
by bilateral agencies were added. Project components after restructuring are described below. It was
believed that only these components could be reasonably completed in the remaining credit period.
(i)    For NWSC as a whole:
(a)    Technical assistance, including finance to assist the Borrower prepare for a MC
(US$14.42 million)
(ii)    For Kathmandu Valley Towns (US$13.62 million):
(a)    Wells: new and rehabilitation (US$4.81 million)
(b)    Rehabilitation of Surface Water Sources (US$11.95 million)
(c)    Operational Materials, Plant and Equipment (US$3.26 million)
(d)    Sewer System Rehabilitation (US$3.60 million)
(iii)   For Towns Outside Kathmandu Valley (US$3.25 million in three towns):
(a) Water supply rehabilitation
(iv)   Grant funding of approximately US$2.0 million was obtained from the Kingdom of Norway to
finance programs for leak detection and sanitation services. Funds were also obtained from the
Govemment of France to develop a pilot computerized billing system.
3.5. Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory because of design failure. The Bank failed to design a
project that would consolidate the limited institutional gains made in the first three projects and provide a
vehicle to carry out the needed broader institutional reform. Instead, it focussed on creating a new public
institution with capacity strengthening through a twinning arrangement with a Management Support
Team. This approach tumed out to be inadequate.
3.5.2.  The need of the hour was to address the following issues (PPAR page VII, para. 17):
(a)    lack of autonomy caused by extensive and tight govemment controls including appointment of
senior staff;
(b)    inadequate tariff increases; and
(c)    weak NWSC managerial and operational capabilities.
3.5.3.  Increased autonomy within the then-existing political environment in Nepal was addressed during
project preparation as a condition of appraisal by creating NWSC in 1989 through a revision of the
WSSC Act. However, this did not provide a vehicle for needed institutional reforms. This lapse was
serious for two reasons. First, such an approach for autonomy had been promoted by the Bank with very
limited success as part of WSP-III, and it was crucial at this stage for the Bank to adopt a stronger
approach2. Second, it was clear that HMGN was not showing the required leadership, and it was
2 "IDA pushed for WSSB to be transformed into a Corporation, the aim being to free the Board from some of the bureaucratic constraints which
constrain govemment agencies. This objective has been partially achieved, and major decisions are still subject to HMG approval." (WSP-IlI,
PCR, page 28, para. 6.05.)
4



important either for the Bank itself to provide it or for the Bank to delay project appraisal.3 Lack of
adequate autonomy later affected the project adversely in many ways.
3.5.4. Tariff increases were required as conditions of appraisal and of effectiveness. However, HMGN
would later persuade the Bank to waive the condition of effectiveness. Inadequate tariff increases would
later contribute to poor financial performance and to the project closing with non-compliance on several
financial covenants.
3.5.5. The institutional strengthening issue was addressed by providing a team of utility management
experts, with the experts expected to work side by side with NWSC and to exercise some limited line
responsibilities. A suitable contract with a water utility was required as a condition of effectiveness.
However, this component, funded by UNDP, saw changes in executing agency and in design following
Board approval and ended up with the experts acting only as advisors. The problems faced by the NWSC
were far greater than could be solved by installing highly skilled advisers. These advisers had little say in
pushing through changes internal to the NWSC. Further, they had no say in persuading external agencies
such as HMGN to take concrete steps such as timely payment of dues or providing stability in the NWSC
management structure. The failure of this component created the risk that physical investments would
take precedence over institutional strengthening and that NWSC would not have developed the capacity
to manage the assets to be created.
3.5.6. The preparation of the project had tried to consider the lessons of past experience and a study
"Service Improvements and Management Support" was undertaken in the course of preparation. The use
of "twinning" for institutional strengthening at the time of appraisal in 1989, was reasonable for the Bank
team and the client to consider as one of the few options then available to improve the performance of a
public utility. PSP alternatives had little track record or acceptance in developing countries, and had only
recently been piloted in a first Bank-supported project (the Guinea lease), and twinning had some
favorable reviews in Bank-wide literature -- although its effectiveness in improving performance had not
been measured conclusively. Experience under the project clearly shows that twinning or TA can help
build up skills and knowledge in specific operational activities, but will not address broader performance
issues rooted in the governance, regulation and incentive framework of a utility.
3.5.7. In addition, other aspects of the institutional analysis were also weak. The notion that NWSC
would become able to approve its own tariffs was not only unrealistic -- no public utility in the Bank's
experience has been granted that authority -- but would have been inappropriate (monopoly service
providers, public or private, should be distinct from regulators). A better design, and probably more
acceptable to the client, would have been to set up a "tariff board" distinct from both NWSC and the
Cabinet, and map out clearly during preparation the processes and criteria by which this entity would
review and approve NWSC's tariff adjustment proposals. A multi-year, formula-based tariff adjustment
process could also have been introduced not requiring further government approvals.
3.5.8. Likewise, appraisal emphasized the importance of having some non-government members sitting
on NWSC's Board. Similar things have been attempted in other utilities and are not proven to have had
any impact -- the presence of a few people, invited by Government even if they are not civil servants, in a
minority position on a public enterprise's board can hardly be expected to change its incentive
framework. However, the preparation of the project failed to assess the implementation difficulties, or
3 "The Bank has repeatedly given in to the Govemment's tactics in frustrating the institutional and financial development of the sector agency,
essentiall)' preempting the efforts of the sector staff to bring forth improvements" (WSP-1II PPAR, page ix, para. 29).
5



the lack of ownership and commitment to meeting the objectives on the part of HMGN and NWSC. In
hindsight, it seems that while the issues were recognized, the solutions proposed were unrealistic and
lacked widespread discussion even within NWSC. Had there been a more realistic approach, it may have
resulted in a different project design, a different design of the institutional component, better risk
management approaches, the articulation of an exit strategy if institutional improvements were not
forthcoming, or perhaps even termination in the design stages.
3.5.9. The Quality Assurance Group has also rated the Quality at Entry as "Unsatisfactory" with the
following criticisms underlying their conclusion:
*     "The project concept and design is not embedded in any coherent sector strategy discussed and
agreed with the borrower" (Memorandum from Prem Garg, 8/15/98, para. 11); and
*     "The appraisal assumed full borrower ownership of and commitment to this objective.
Unfortunately, this assumption was misplaced, as demonstrated by the subsequent inability or
unwillingness of the government to take agreed actions".... (Prem Garg, 8/15/98, para. 12).
4.    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1.   Outcome/achievement of objectives:
4.1.1. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory because it failed to achieve most of its major
objectives and is not expected to yield substantial development results. This finding is consistent with the
1998 finding of the Quality Assurance Group.
4.1.2. The project objectives were mostly unmet. Largely because the NWSC was subject to tight
government controls, it was affected by highly detrimental turnover at the Board and in senior most
management. The objective of strengthening NWSC's institutional capability was not met, even though
two different approaches were tried. Physical objectives were also largely unmet, as most physical
components could not be concluded by Credit closing. Utilization of the existing system has improved
only marginally. Water production has increased, though less than anticipated at the MTR.
4.2.   Outputs by Component:
4.2.1. There were significant shortcomings in each one of the major components.
4.2.2. Despite two attempts, the NWSC was only marginally strengthened by the project.
The first approach at institutional strengthening was the Management Support Contract. The
International Labor Organization (ILO), the agency designated by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) as the executing agency in August 1991, redrafted the Project
Document and proposed a changed approach to the MST (which was not agreeable to HMGN or
IDA) and introduced a Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) in the MST. After several months of
preparation, ILO withdrew without having recruited the team. In compliance with their policy
that UNDP-funded projects be executed locally, the NWSC was appointed as executing agency.
Following international competitive bidding, an overseas utility was awarded the contract.
Problems continued however. For example, key staff became unavailable two weeks after
negotiations were completed and the winning bidder insisted that their staff would maintain
6



office hours followed in its home country and not those followed in Nepal. Though these
developments caused concem among HMGN and the donors, the contract was awarded and the
MST finally started about a year behind schedule. During its shortened tenure, the MST made
several recommendations. Those adopted included a new departmental structure, new personnel
rules and simplified financial procedures. However, soon after the team was installed, concerns
with the perceived skills of some team members and their lack of experience in an Asian setting
emerged. Furthermore, the roles and responsibility of the CTA vis-A-vis the leader of the utility
team created an environment not conducive to teamwork. The MST was terminated early after a
HMGN/UNDP joint evaluation concluded that the design of this component was flawed,
implementation was ineffective and inefficient, and that the relationship between the NWSC and
the MST was not conducive to continuing the collaboration.
*     The second approach at institutional strengthening, the proposed transfer of operations to a
private sector operator, also suffered delays. Preparation for recruitment of a contractor began in
July 1997. This process was guided by a government-appointed Private Sector Participation
High Level Committee (PSPC), working to a tight schedule, to recruit a private operator by
March 31, 1999. Although the process started well, progress was delayed due to: (a) a lag in
processing key policy and issues related to the MC by HMGN; (b) differing donor views; and (c)
a wait for the outcome of Melamchi stakeholder discussions on the finalization of policy
legislation and on the recruitment selection criteria for the MC. Transfer of operations to a
private operator has yet to be accomplished, even some 14 months after Credit closing.
4.2.3. Of the physical works proposed in the Kathmandu Valley, only the works for rehabilitation of
tube wells and construction of new wells were completed as projected at MTR. The achieved production
increase of 23 mld (Annex IA) was less than half appraisal estimates. Central facility rehabilitation was
partly achieved through procurement of plant, vehicles, and repair materials. Operational improvements
were supported through provision of 80,000 consumer meters (compared to 52,000 estimated at
appraisal). Other works were cancelled due to delays associated with postponed effectiveness, Credit
suspension and procurement problems. Project effectiveness was initially delayed by about a year
awaiting recruitment of the MST contractor by the donor community. After effectiveness was declared
and as the NWSC was preparing to sign contracts for physical works, non-compliance with covenants led
to Credit suspension for ten months. After the suspension was lifted, additional delays were caused by
procurement problems in part because losing bidders contested the qualifications claimed by the winning
bidders. It took several months to verify these claims and to take remedial steps. As a result of all these
delays, many components were cancelled and anticipated benefits could not be achieved.
4.2.4. Outside the valley works were also delayed by postponed declaration of Credit effectiveness and
by subsequent Credit suspension. Works proposed in six outside the valley towns were cut out at the
MTR. Rehabilitation was achieved partially at Dharan and Hetauda and fully at Pokhara. Other project
outputs were not achieved (Annex IB).
4.2.5. Grant funds obtained from the Kingdom of Norway (KoN) were used to carry out programs for
unaccounted-for water (UfW) management and sanitation services. These programs were executed by the
Bank during 1993-1995. The UfW program was very successful, partly due to a performance-based
incentive structure for NWSC counterpart staff, and NWSC's capacity for UfW management has been
enhanced. However, despite the success of this demonstration, the UfW unit has received inadequate
financial support from NWSC management and faces funding shortfalls that prevent it from effectively
conducting similar programs in additional areas experiencing high water losses. The on-site sanitation
7



component was not successful, due to a lack of receptivity by NWSC and because Credit suspension
prevented the approach developed by the consultants from being scaled up for other areas. Grant funds
of US$0.7 million equivalent obtained from the French Government were used to computerize billing
operations. A pilot program was completed, but there has been little progress since.
4.2.6. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) provided grant funds for the groundwater
treatment works which were satisfactorily constructed. Though originally included in the SAR, it was not
necessary to fund this sub-component from the Credit.
4.2.7. NWSC continues to be a weak institution unable to arrive at decisions vital to its own future.
Though water production has increased, average daily hours of service to Kathmandu Valley households
has dropped from 6 hours at project inception to 4.5 hours at completion. During the dry season in March
1999, water was being provided only on alternate days. A consumer survey conducted in 1997 concluded
that only 32 percent of customers were satisfied with the water pressure and 58 percent reported that
water quantities delivered were inadequate.  About 31 percent of consumers reported using
supplementary water sources and less than 6 percent paid their dues on time. The average collection
period ranged between 8 and 11 months. While the rehabilitation program in three towns outside the
valley has increased production somewhat, water availability has declined from 10 hours to 8 hours per
day.
4.3. Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
4.3.1. The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 9.5 percent on components for which
benefits were quantifiable. These components accounted for 31 percent of project costs. At project
closing, the economic rate of return was not recalculated because of the following practical and
methodological considerations.
*      The consumer surplus related assumptions used at appraisal could not be replicated at project
closing. The appraisal assumption that consumer surplus is twice the revenue to the NWSC
cannot be validated for the ICR because the rationale used in the SAR is not explained. Further,
economic data with which to make new assumptions was not collected during project
implementation. Also the consumer data collected by the NWSC does not provide adequate
information with which to estimate the demand curve and to develop a fresh estimate of the
consumer surplus.
*     Cancellation and delays on most water improvement components resulted in production increases
far below projections. High system-wide UfW rates ensured that consumption increases were
even lower than production increases.. Consequently, realized benefits are far below projected
benefits.
*     At neither appraisal nor closing was it possible to compute benefits associated with major project
components such as consumer education, water quality improvements, customer billing
improvements, facilities and plants etc.
*     The institutional component that represented about 39 percent of total costs at Credit closing
failed, yielding little economic benefit.
Since the project failed to provide significant benefits, and the realized benefits cannot be readily
quantified, a mathematical exercise at generating numbers using inappropriate or weak assumptions was
not attempted.
8



4.4.   Financial Rate of Return:
4.4.1. The NWSC's financial performance has improved slightly, but falls far short of projections at
appraisal. Compliance with financial covenants was a persistent problem and the Credit closed with
NWSC out of compliance with several financial covenants. A financial rate of return was not calculated
for the SAR or for this document. Several important financial ratios are presented in Annex 1D and are
summarized here. NWSC increased water tariffs from NRs.3.5 per cubic meter to approximately NRs.7.0
albeit with some delays in obtaining HMGN approval. The tariff increases served to improve cash flow
somewhat. Though operating surpluses increased from NRs.12.0 million in 1992 to NRs.59.0 million in
1998, these surpluses were lower than the NRs. 178.0 million projected at appraisal.
4.4.2. The net deficit, after allowing for depreciation, interest and doubtful debt, of NRs.6.0 million in
1992 became a net surplus of NRs.22.0 million. While at first the net surplus appears to have exceeded
the target of NRs.13.0 million, a more careful analysis indicates that this has been achieved by
understating the doubtful debt. Though collection efficiency has ranged between 76 percent and 99
percent of annual billings and the total arrears and debt collection period have grown significantly, the
allowance for doubtful debt is only around 1 percent of annual revenues. The allowance for doubtful
debt would only have to increase to about 7 percent of annual revenues to wipe out the net surplus. In
fact, the actual debt collection period has increased from 148 days in 1992 to over 200 days in 1998
supporting the assertion that even a 7 percent allowance for doubtful debt is inadequate and that the
current net surplus is misleading.
4.5.   Institutional Development Impact:
4.5.1. The Institutional Development Impact is negligible. While the institutional objectives were
relevant to the Borrower's sector needs, commitment to change was mis-read during preparation. Lack of
NWSC autonomy (in practice) was always as major issue. During implementation, HMGN and NWSC
failed to achieve either timely or effective implementation. The country's regulatory environment and
policy environment are now changing, but again, much slower than anticipated. The NWSC's capacity is
still too weak to effectively plan and manage water operations efficiently or fully execute sector
investments. This weak capacity has been further stretched as NWSC has undertaken the responsibility
to serve additional towns before responsibilities for Kathmandu are devolved to an MC.
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1.   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. The donor community contributed to a one-year delay in commencing the MST. The UNDP
initially insisted for this component to be executed by the ILO, and delays in the time taken to process the
MSC partially affected achievement of objectives. After several months of efforts the ILO finally
withdrew from its execution responsibilities and UNDP appointed the NWSC as the executing agency.
Since the WSP-IV effectiveness was initially contingent on signing of the MST, other components were
also delayed for many months.
9



5.2.   Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Several factors contributed to the shortcomings of the WSP-IV. Most important were the weak
borrower commitment to institutional change and delays caused by various factors.
5.2.2. The Government's influence on several aspects of NWSC management had undesirable impact.
The political situation led to seven government changes between 1990-1999 with each successive
Government unable to stay in office for long (Annex 6B). These changes in government eroded the
already weak HMGN commitment to institutional strengthening. They also caused a crippling turnover
in the individuals that comprised the NWSC Board, the Chairman of the Board, and the General Manager
(Annex 6C). The average tenure of the Chairman has been under one year and of the General Manager
about seven months. The Board members and their numbers were also changed with each change in
government. The suitability of some of the individuals appointed to these positions was questionable.
The frequent government changes also led to constant shifts in political pressure on the NWSC, and to
pressure to award contracts to favored contractors. As a result, the NWSC management was unable to
take key strategic decisions.
5.2.3. Further, even though HMGN agreed to a condition to increase tariffs prior to Credit
effectiveness, tariffs were not increased and HMGN successfully negotiated a credit agreement revision
to that effect. This decision adversely affected revenues and cash flows, and just as the NWSC geared up
its procurement efforts to initiate signing of several key contracts, covenant lapses led to Credit
suspension.
5.2.4. Finally, HMGN repeatedly delayed payment of its dues to the NWSC and showed a lack of
commitment towards strengthening NWSC's financial operations.
5.2.5. At the same time, the following positive steps taken by the Government prevented the situation
from becoming worse:
*      iThe Government raised tariffs somewhat and therefore was partially successful in alleviating
NWSC's precarious financial situation. Since the tariff structure existing before appraisal did not
cover the cost of providing water and sanitation, successive tariff increases were agreed upon as
conditions for negotiation and for effectiveness. Only the preliminary rounds of tariff increases
were achieved as scheduled and benefited NWSC by increasing cash flow enough to alleviate
crippling cash shortages.
*     The government provided representation by a broad and generally representative group of
stakeholders to the NWSC Board. Unfortunately, such broad representation contributed little to
the achievement of project objectives.
*     The Government's decision to go ahead with private sector operation of the NWSC was
welcome. The PSPC was successfully established to steer key policy discussions and decisions.
5.3.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Overall, the NWSC lost an opportunity to improve its management and to achieve other project
objectives:
*     It failed to exercise the autonomy granted under the law. Since for many years the position of
Chairman of the NWSC Board was held by the secretary of the MHPP, the NWSC was very
10



susceptible to ministerial pressure. From May 1996 to April 1997 the Chairman's position was
replaced by that of an Executive Chairman cum General Manager. However, since this
appointment was a political one, it too was susceptible to political pressure. NWSC's reluctance
to exercise the given autonomy had a substantially negative impact on achievement of project
objectives.
*     Procurement processes incurred substantial delays that later led to cancellation of project
components.
*     The NWSC was slow to take key decisions, partly because of its weakened decision-making
capacity.  At a critical juncture, when the Bank observed severe weakness in covenant
compliance and threatened suspension, the NWSC did not take timely action to correct the
identified defaults. NWSC's inability to correct key deficiencies at this crucial time resulted in
Credit suspension that substantially curtailed achievement of physical objectives.
5.3.2. The following three relatively minor areas saw successful capacity building at NWSC but such
partial improvements in institutional capacity falls short of the capacity required to manage the sector.
*     The leak detection program was a positive intervention that built substantial capacity in this
specialized skill area at the NWSC. However, it has not been expanded system-wide thereby
limiting the transfer of a lasting capacity for leak detection in NWSC.
*     Consumer education and community participation programs were successfully conducted and
resulted in partially improved consumer contact and improved service. However, in the later
years of the project, when donor support ended, NWSC support for these activities diminished
significantly
The NWSC has developed the capacity to design and build small works and distribution systems,
and several small projects were successfully undertaken.
5.4.   Cost andfinancing:
5.4.1. The project was appraised to cost US$71 million equivalent. At the MTR, the estimate was
reduced to $41 million, as several components were cancelled (Annex 2A), others were reduced in scope,
and groundwater treatment facilities as well as UfW reduction were financed by other donors. The final
cost was $23 million as several rehabilitation works were scaled down due to procurement problems. As
a result of these changes, the proportion of the largely unsuccessful institutional support component
including customer billing and UfW reduction grew from about 14 percent at appraisal to 30 percent at
the MTR, to over 39 percent of total cost at closing. At appraisal, Bank, Government and Co-financier
contributions were projected to be $60 million, $7.6 million and $3.4 million respectively. Instead, at
closing the contributions were $16.1 million, $1.8 million, and $4.9 million respectively.
6.     Sustainability
6.1.   Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. Sustainability is rated as unlikely because the desired institutional improvements have not
materialized and the financial and institutional capabilities of the existing organization are seriously
inadequate to undertake sector management. The facilities constructed are of generally good quality and
the impact of the UfW control program in a small part of the distribution system is highly satisfactory.
However, the NWSC's past record of poor maintenance, its poor financial performance and still weak
11



management structure raise the issue of whether adequate routine and preventive maintenance will be
provided for the facilities constructed. Further, key institutional improvements such as the MC are still to
materialize.
6.2.   Transition arrangement to regular operation:
6.2.1. HMGN sector plans include a major investment entailing inter-basin transfers of water with an
MC to improve inside-the-valley operations while the NWSC undertakes responsibilities of 12 additional
towns outside the valley. These plans are currently delayed because the MC has not been recruited. In
the mean time, the institutionally weak NWSC has already assumed responsibility for these towns.
6.2.2. It is anticipated that the PSPC will develop performance indicators by which performance can be
monitored in the future. This monitoring system will be put in place along with the MC. The Bank's
current strategy is to develop plans for further sector lending only after institutional improvements in the
form of the MC are in place.
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1.   Lending:
7.1.1. Bank performance in lending operations is rated unsatisfactory because of poor design of the
institutional component. The Credit and project size was not reasonably set at a level commensurate with
a proven absorptive capacity of the executing agency. Four failed projects in a row suggests over-
optimism, doubling the amount each time seems incomprehensive.
7.1.2. The Bank failed to use its influence to affect key institutional changes. It was complacent in
agreeing to the modification introduced in the concept of a "twinning arrangement" (by ILO) which
resulted in a MST which was perceived to be an appropriate tool for institutional improvement. Had the
Bank taken the tough decision of sequencing institutional strengthening and autonomy ahead of major
investments (as it is currently doing), WSP-IV shortcomings may have been avoided. Also, after nearly
two decades of operations in the sector and country, the Bank failed to recognize and effectively address
the weak HMGN and NWSC commitment and ownership to institutional strengthening/reforms,
including autonomy.
7.1.3. To the Bank's credit, lending operations were successful in resolving several important issues
such as tariff increases and availability of audit reports by making their resolution pre-conditions of
negotiations, and of presentation to the Board.
7.2.   Supervision:
7.2.1. By waiving processing and legal covenants, the Bank gave the wrong signal. The appraisal team
had correctly identified a tariff increase as a key action for the utility to become viable, and as an
important test of borrower ownership. At negotiation, this was agreed to be a Board condition. By
waiving this condition (which first slipped into an effectiveness condition, then to a dated covenant) the
Bank gave a powerful, and wrong, signal that it was not serious about essential conditionality of the
project.  This signal was later reinforced by the legal finding that, even in the face of prolonged non-
12



compliance with several major financial covenants, the Credit agreement did not offer IDA a legal basis
for exiting.
7.2.2. The Bank decided to take a strong stance on institutional improvements only after declaring the
Credit effective in 1992. When NWSC's failure to comply with financial covenants indicated that
institutional weaknesses were continuing, the Bank debated whether to cancel the Credit or to suspend
disbursements. While Credit cancellation would have sent a firmer message to the Borrower, Credit
suspension was the only legally acceptable option because an exit strategy had not been developed at
appraisal. Credit suspension adversely affected achievement of physical objectives. Unfortunately
compliance with covenants improved only temporarily and long-term management improvements are yet
to materialize. Consequently, the project was harmed by the lack of risk management strategy at the
design stages.
7.2.3. Performance during supervision was unsatisfactory because the Bank management failed to
follow up with an effective combination of dialogue and actions that would produce the desired
institutional development impact.
7.3.   Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4.   Preparation:
7.4.1. The performance during preparation was unsatisfactory because steps to ensure institutional
development were incomplete. The Borrower seemed to have agreed to legal covenants without realizing
the implications of non compliance. Compliance with conditions of Credit effectiveness was
unsatisfactory and led to delays.
7.4.2. The Government failed to monitor the performance of NWSC.
7.5.   Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. The performance of the Borrower during implementation was unsatisfactory. Throughout, NWSC
suffered a lack of continuity, ability and direction from its various politically appointed Chairmen, whose
lack of sector experience in many cases proved a major drawback. The Government did not maintain
continuity in the Board and General Manager positions of NWSC.
7.5.2. The Government repeatedly delayed payments of NWSC dues and showed a lack of commitment
to strengthen NWSC's financial operations.
7.6.  Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. The performance of NWSC was unsatisfactory despite willingness and ability by some middle
level managers to execute the works in a competent and professional manner. Throughout, NWSC has
suffered through lack of continuity, ability, and direction from the various politically appointed chairmen
whose lack of sector experience in many cases proved a major drawback. Though the constitution of the
Board was widened to include representatives from the private sector, municipalities and consumer
groups, the pervasive problem of candidates' sector inexperience persists.
13



7.6.2  While NWSC is, legally, an autonomous body, in practice all policy and major decisions (e.g., on
matters of selection of managers, tariffs, and staffing levels) continue to be heavily influenced by HMGN.
The NWSC did not take timely and effective implementation decisions. The NWSC's lack of compliance
with financial covenants resulted in Credit suspension. At Credit closing, NWSC management capacity
remains weak.
7.7.   Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. Overall borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
8.1.   Some of the lessons learned during this project are enumerated below:
*     The project suffered from a failure by the Bank to identify key weaknesses and to act decisively
to allay them. Given the manifest failure of the central institutional component, the MTR was too
late. An earlier exit strategy might have served the interests of the sector better in the long run.
*     Institutional autonomy was essential to reduce political interference in day-to-day management
and to meet development objectives. The NWSC Act provided autonomy on paper, but in
practice it was never implemented. This was the single greatest failure of both the Bank and the
Borrower.
e     Frequent changes of the Board and General Manager were very disruptive to continuity,
commitment and to meeting development objectives.
*     Politicization of tariff increases, staff recruitment and other administrative and financial matters
undermined the potential for reform and diminished service delivery.
*     Wide participation and discussions with various stakeholders were essential for ownership and
commitment to reforms. The non-acceptance of the MST by NWSC is a case in point. Supply-
driven approaches caused implementation difficulties and failure to achieve the needed
commitment of stakeholders.
*     Involvement of implementing agencies at the outset was critical to aligning the project concept
from start to finish. Bringing in ILO after the project document had been drafted as the executing
agency for the Management Support Component caused delays and modifications, which did not
prove successful.
*     Investment in physical infrastructure needed to be properly sequenced with institutional reform.
Trying to achieve reforms in parallel with investment did not prove successful, since the focus of
the implementing agency was on meeting physical targets while institutional change was
marginalised.
*     Poor procurement performance inevitably diminished the achievement of project objectives, both
physical and institutional.
*     Appraising projects before any detail design is carried out is not a good practice. Carrying out
detailed design after project effectiveness (as in this case), required significant time and resulted
in significant start up delays.  This was compounded by the performance of the design
consultants which was mixed.
14



*     There is a tendency for a utility like NWSC to neglect its financial management and thus not have
a true and fair picture of its financial health. This area as well as paying heed to audit
recommendations and internal control systems need to be emphasized.
*     For a state-owned corporation like NWSC, it is important to ensure that its accounts are
maintained in accordance with international accounting standards and audits are carried out as
per international auditing standards by a qualified intemational audit firm.
8.2.   In summary, the main lessons learned can be classified into three broad areas.
Sequencing of Technical Assistance: Investments in physical infrastructure may provide short-
lived benefits unless institutional autonomy and strengthening can be correctly sequenced into the
development process.
8.3.   Prior sector investments had attempted to promote institutional strengthening alongside capital
investments. While some institutional changes were effected, improvements were insufficient to
empower NWSC to undertake sector planning and management activities. An OED audit report clearly
places the responsibility for this failure on the lack of HMGN commitment to effect capacity building. If
a government's reluctance to support capacity building is known, it becomes all the more crucial for the
Bank to exercise its influence and to sequence investment in physical infrastructure only after
government commitment to institutional autonomy and strengthening are in evidence. It is very
important that these improvements are measurable and future Bank investments made conditional to
achievement of agreed institutional milestones. The Bank is currently following this approach in its
sector dialogue.
Procurement: Poor procurement performance can seriously impair achievement of objectives.
8.4.   Procurement of consulting services, goods and works proved to be a source of long delay
throughout the project life, despite NWSC's experience from three earlier IDA-supported projects. From
the start, project effectiveness was delayed by 12 months awaiting the recruitment of the MST.
Thereafter, major delays occurred in the procurement cycle for many contracts. These delays contributed
substantially to the restructuring of the project in 1997 since by that date, insufficient time remained to
construct the major works Inside the Valley. Only one works contract (well field rehabilitation) was
awarded under the Inside Valley program but, bidding took 31 months from tender invitation to contract
award (including a 10-month Credit suspension). There are many other examples from Inside Valley
procurement with elapsed time from bid invitation to contract award in the range of 28 to 38 months.
Procurement difficulties experienced by NWSC were compounded by the long lead-time required by
NWSC and its consultant to prepare satisfactory bidding documents. Bidding documents for major works
contracts were issued only in 1996, five years into the project, although the consultants were recruited in
August 1991, before Credit effectiveness.  Pre-qualification (PQ) of the contractors for major
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) works contracts was mandated in the legal agreements. This
process failed because of: (a) difficulty in preparing acceptable PQ application documents in a timely
manner; (b) lack of interest by international contractors in works in the range US$5-30 million and
unwillingness to provide qualification data in the format required; and (c) difficulty experienced by
NWSC and its consultant in evaluating contractors' eligibility. The PQ process was eventually dropped
with Bank no-objection, and a post qualification process applied to expedite the procurement progress.
This change certainly helped progress.
15



8.5.   NWSC was relatively more successful in implementing works in Outside Valley towns compared
with the Inside Valley experience. After project restructuring in 1997, NWSC successfully completed
rehabilitation programs in Dharan, Hetauda and Pokhara with a total investment of about US$3.3 million.
The works were implemented through recruitment by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
with NWSC supplying pipe materials to the contractors. Execution was timely and of good quality.
Unaccounted for Water Management: A concerted effort to address physical losses can make
immediate and cost effective improvements to the distribution system.
8.6.   Using a technique pioneered in India, distribution mains were externally pressurized by a
contractor to test, repair, and retest leak flows. In the process the NWSC staff were successfully trained
to undertake future responsibilities.
8.7.   UfW  management is important in Kathmandu where water losses have been subjectively
estimated through various studies since 1974, to be in the range of 33-70 percent of supply. A structured
program was initiated in Greater Kathmandu and Pokhara during 1993-1995. This technical assistance,
executed by Bank, had the following objectives: (a) to put in place a methodology for UfW management;
(b) to increase water availability to consumers and generate additional revenue for NWSC; and (c) to
train counterpart NWSC personnel.
8.8.   The methodology simulated system pressures (in the range 3, 7 and 12 m.) by isolating short
sections of distribution mains that were pressurized externally while the leakage tests were done.
Identified leaks were repaired and system re-tests undertaken. The initial work in Kathmandu extended
to 10.8 square km. covering about 12,000 property connections, two service reservoirs, and about 10 km.
of transmission mains. Leak flows originally averaging 50, 117 and 196 liters/hour/connection at 3, 7 and
12 m. head respectively were reduced by about 50 percent after repairs. In Pokhara, using conventional
waste zone methodology, 12 zones were tested, covering about 19 percent of the service area, with
average leakage reported about 60 1/hr./connection. Leakage was reduced by 70 percent to about 18 - 20
l/hr./connection after repairs. For comparison, it may be noted that in well-maintained systems, leakage
figures achieved are in the range between 10 -15 l/hr./connection.
8.9.   The programs at Kathmandu and Pokhara both identified the need to replace "cluster"
connections concurrently with leakage control operations since they account for about 60 percent of the
identified leaks and contribute to the very low pressures at consumers' premises. These programs
commenced in 1995. From 1996 to date, NWSC has continued the programs in Kathmandu and Pokhara
through "in-house" staff, trained and utilizing equipment provided under the Norwegian funded leak
detection program. Of late, progress has been much reduced due to budget constraints and apparently
low priority given by HMGN and NWSC.
8.10.  This intervention has proved highly successful and cost effective. NWSC staff have been
successfully trained in the leakage control technology. Sixty-four persons received on-the-job training
and specialist skills upgrading, and NWSC's institutional capacity in this regard has been strengthened.
The work programs continue in Kathmandu and Pokhara. In Kathmandu some 35 percent of the service
area has now been covered (about 17, 000 connections), UfW has been reduced by about 2.6 mld (over
the period 1993 - 1998), providing about 2.5 percent additional water for consumers. The cost of water
saved is calculated to be around NRs.20 - 25/1000 liters (US$0.30 - 0.37/1000 liters) and is around half
the opportunity cost of providing additional water to Kathmandu Valley by inter-basin transfer.
16



8.11.  In Pokhara, during the period 1993-1998, some 49 percent of the service area was covered by
UfW management operations. The total water saving from this program is 3.84 mld (about 22 percent of
the average daily supply). This already meets the expectations at project appraisal and is satisfactory.
Consumers reported immediate benefits in terms of improved system pressures and increased water
availability.
8.12.  The success of the program demonstrates that UfW can be reduced systematically through a
program initiated by external intervention, to build "in-house" institutional capacity to continue the work
after the assistance is withdrawn.  However, for lasting capacity for leak detection in NWSC, the
program needs to be adopted with full commitment within NWSC.
9.    Partner Comments
(a)    Borrower/implementing agency: A stakeholders' workshop with representatives of the Borrower,
implementing agency, a co-financier, and other project stakeholders was held on May 26, 2000 in
Kathmandu, to discuss the findings of the draft ICR. Their comments are incorporated in the summary of
the workshop given below. Written contributions to the ICR by the NWSC are presented in Annex 10.
(b)    Cofinanciers: None received.
(c)    Other partners (NGOs/private sector): See feedback from stakeholders' workshop below.
Feedback on ICR from Stakeholders' Workshop
Some General Comment on Overall Findings on ICR
*     No use blaming any one agency, the main sufferers are Nepali people, all three actors (the line
ministry, NWSC and the Bank) must plan better in future.
*     Responsibility for failure of the project lies: Line ministry - 60%, NWSC Management - 25%,
World Bank - 15%.
*     Frank admission of the Bank's shortcomings - more experienced Bank staff with Nepal
experience needed.
*     Main findings of ICR are correct and the report seems to be independent.
Some Specific Comments on Main Finding of ICR
*     MST did not complement UWSSRP works execution.
*     Credit suspension led to lack of physical targets; don't agree.
*     Project suspended only after a lot of prior warnings over more than one year; series of warnings.
Government/NWSC did not heed.
*     The experience of this project should not be seen in isolation.
*     Issue of lack of delegation of authority at country level not appropriately emphasized.
Some Suggestions for Future Programs
NWSC's suggestion that institutional reforms must first be carried out before undertaking any
new major projects is commendable.
17



*      Donors should not insist on unattainable conditions. The Borrower should take its commitments
very seriously. It is better to have no project than to have an unworkable project.
*      Small size, short duration projects are more appropriate.
*     Effective monitoring at all stages is vital for successful implementation.
*     More involvement of local consultant and construction companies should be encouraged.
10.   Additional Information
10.1.  Background
10.1.1. In the late eighties, an estimated 70 percent of Nepal's urban population of approximately 1.6
million had access to reasonably safe drinking water. However, there were major deficiencies in water
quality and in service levels, particularly in urban areas. In Kathmandu, a typical connection received
water for about six hours a day. Sanitation coverage was very poor with only about 17 percent of the
urban population having adequate sanitation facilities. The physical infrastructure was poorly maintained
and water loss estimates ranged from 33 to 70 percent. Outbreaks of water-related diseases such as
cholera and gastroenteritis occurred every two or three years. It was feared that reports of water quality
problems adversely affected Nepal's main revenue earner - tourism.
10.1.2. These conditions existed despite three earlier IDA credits for urban water supply and sewerage
since 1974. The objectives of these three projects were broadly similar: to improve water supply and
sanitation services in the principal cities and to help improve the institutional framework. Unfortunately,
any physical improvements resulting from these projects were negated by rapidly growing urban
populations and did not translate into major service improvements. Further, the greatest shortcoming of
these three projects was the poor performance of the sector institution, the Nepal Water Supply
Corporation (NWSC). Reasons for NWSC's poor performance included "the extensive and tight controls
including of senior staff and consequent lack of autonomy and, perhaps most important, the total lack of a
realistic financial base mainly due to totally inadequate tariff increases" (Project Performance and
Appraisal Report (PPAR) 11/30/90, page VII, para. 17).
10.1.3. In the mid-80s, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) undertook to provide safe and
reliable water supply and sanitation to the projected 2.6 million inhabitants that would be served by 12
municipalities in the year 2005. HMGN's objective was to be met by implemnenting a Fifteen-Year
Development Program (FYDP)4 that incorporated findings of several studies, including:
(a)    Service Improvements in Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur and Management Support to
WSSC (SIMS), Binnie and Partners January 1990;
(b)    The Fifteen Year Development Program, WSSC, July 1989;
(c)    Groundwater Management Project in the Kathmandu Valley; JICA, Sept. 1990;
(d)    Study of the drainage and sanitary sewage in the Greater Kathmandu area;
(e)    Future Water Supply from Outside the Valley for Kathmandu-Lalitpur -- Environmental Impact
Study; Stanley Associates Engineering Ltd., June 1990; and
(f)    Pre-feasibility Study: Water Supply from Outside the Valley, Binnie & Partners, 1988.
4 The report was called fifteen year Comprehensive Development Plan (CDP); in the SAR it is referred to the FYDP).
18



The FYDP anticipated large investments to conduct much-delayed maintenance of existing infrastructure
and also to expand this infrastructure. The FYDP also acknowledged that the NWSC needed to be
strengthened for long-term sector management.
10.2. Financial management, disbursement and audit.
10.2.1. The overall financial management of the Project was unsatisfactory. NWSC's financial
management system had weaknesses in the following areas: (a) weak internal control system; (b)
untimely reconciliation of accounts; (c) untimely recording and updating of various information systems,
particularly the fixed assets records, and (d) inadequate monitoring of the financial management
information system. Its audit reports were submitted late; on an average about 12 to 14 months after the
end of the fiscal year. NWSC's financial statements and project accounts for FY1998/99 are still due.
NWSC always had qualified audit reports with recommendations for improvement. However, the
Corporation seldom made serious efforts to implement such recommendations, resulting in compounding
of audit qualifications every year. Little attention was paid to improve internal controls and financial
accounting including accounting adjustments to the financial statements. As a result, the financial
statements of NWSC did not reflect a true and fair picture of the corporation's financial condition.
19



Annex IA: Key Physical Indicators
Description                               Appraisal              Mid-Term                 Actual
Review               Estimate
Kathmandu Valley Towns
Tube-Wells
Provision of new or replacement wells                            II no.                  10 no.           IO no. (16.5 mid)
Rehabilitation of existing wells                                 28 no.                  13 no.            13 no. (6.4 mid)
Rehabilitation of distribution system                         Not qualified           340 Ha. area             None
Meter supply                                                     52,000                 80,000                 80,000
Surface Source Rehabilitation                                    53 mid                 24 mid               None done
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Works                           33.9                As appraised           None done
Groundwater Treatment Works                                       50.0              48.6 JICA funded      48.6 JICA funded
New Distribution Pipelines                                   Not Quantified                                  None done
Central Facilities, Plant and Vehicles                       Not Quantified                             Procured (US$3.4 m.)
Sewer System Rehabilitation
Dhobighat Sewage Treatment Works (STW)                          15.4 mid              As appraised           None done
Khodku STW                                                      1.1 mid               As appraised      Temporary repairs in
Sewer Rehabilitation                                             350 m.                 5,600 m                 1995
Sewer Extension Tukucha Khola                                  not defined                 -                 None done
Sewer connections                                                10,000                  5,000               None done
Sanitation                                                    15,000 units                               Policy study done in
1995. Work
suspended when Credit
Interception of old combined sewer                               11 no.                 .11 no.          suspended. Nothing
done since.
None done.
20



Annex 1B: Key Physical Indicators
Description                              Appraisal             Mid-Term                Actual
Review              Estimate
OUTSIDE VALLEY TOWNS
Bhairahawa
Repair, replace, and enhance facilities.                        See SAR          Component deleted           None
Biratnagar
Repair, replace, and enhance facilities.                        See SAR          Component deleted           None
Birgunj
Repair, replace, and enhance facilities.                        See SAR          Component deleted           None
Butwal
Rehabilitation of intakes replacement of 20 turbine pumps,
Rehabilitation of Well, replacement of transmission main etc.   See SAR          Component deleted           None
Dharan
Rehabilitation of intakes at Kardhu (5.0 mid),                                      Sardu Kbola           Sardu Khola
Sardu (6.0 mid) and Pakhuwa (0.1 mid) Kholas                    3 sites              (6.0 mid)            (6.0 mid)
Reconstruction of 2 intakes                                      2 sites
Repair of electrical, mechanical and structural works            3 sites
Repair of highlift pump (IDA pumping station)                     I no.
Operator's quarters at Sardu and Khardu intake sites              I no.
Replacement of transmission mains
Khardu Khola system -200 mm                                    1,200 m
Sardu Khola system - 200 mm                                    2,800 m               2,450 m               2,450 m
Seoti Khola system - 200 mm                                    1,000 m
Bhalu Khola system - 100 mm                                    1,000 m
Protection of Khardu Khola mains                                 500 m
Repairs to reservoirs                                            3 units
Rehabilitation of sedimentation tanks                            I unit
Rehabilitation of Phusre pressure filter and contact tank        1 unit
Chlorination of plant at Phusre reservoir site                   I unit
Distribution system rehabilitation                          3,000 m, 1,000 m             -
Hetauda
Rehabilitation of intakes: Bundel Khola (I mid)                  I unit
Samri Khola well (0.3 mid)                 I unit                8 mid         Pumps awaited
Guards quarters: Bundel Khola and Karra wells                    2 units
Pump control panel and pumphouse at Karra                         I unit
Transmission main: 200 mm IDA well #1 to Harigunj               4,500 m         2500 m x 350mm dia  2500 m x 350mm dia
200 mm IDA well # 2 to Kawane                 3,000 m
Protection of 200 mm transmission main Bundel Khola            Lump sum
Harigunj reservoir protection, interconnection and repair      Lump sum
Chlorination plant at IDA tubewell site                          I unit
Distribution system rehabilitation                          1,500 m, 3,000 m
Janakpur
Replacement of pump, rehabilitation of reservoir distribution etc.  See SAR       Component deleted          None
Nepalgunj
Replacement of existing turbine pump, transmission mains etc.   See SAR           Component deleted          None
Pokhara
Rehabilitation of intakes:                                     Lump sum             As appraised          As appraised
Guards quarters at Bhote Khola                                   I unit             As appraised           Not done
Construction of new river intake; Mardhi Khola                   I unit             As appraised          As appraised
Rehabilitation of transmission mains:
- 150 mm KI bridge in Bindabaisini                             1,300 m             Not needed            Not needed
- 100 mm Baldhara Khola                                        500 m                 390 m                 390 m
- 200 mm Bhote Khola                                           3,100 m               3,246 m              3,246 m
Protection of Mardhi Khola main (400 mm)                        1,000 m                136 m                 136 m
Extension of Mardhi Khola main to new intake (400 mm)           1,000 m                790 m                 790 m
Repair of existing reservoirs:
- Amia Bisauni (500 m3)                                         1 unit               Deleted
- Elindabaisini (2 x 500 m3)                                   2 units               Deleted
Distribution system rehabilitation -150 mm                      1,500 m          80mm 4792 m          80mm 5194 m
-100 mm                           3,000 m          100mm 3890 m         100mm 4357 m
150mm 867 m          ISOmm 1000 m
200mm 3391 m         200mm 3762 m
250mm 122 m          250mm 430 m
Rehabilitation of Guards' quarters and meter repair shop                             I unit each           I unit each
Access road to Mardi Khola                                                            1,455 m               1,455 m.
21



Annex 1C: Operational Indicators
Mid                        Actual
Description                         Appraisal          Term                     Estimate5/
Review
Program for Reduction of Unaccounted Water
KATHMNADU VALLEY
Service connections Reduction                          10%                10%                       2%
Distribution System Reduction                          4%                  4%                      0.5%
Public Stand-post Reduction                            1%                  1%                      0.5%
OUTSIDE VALLEY TOWNS (In nine towns)
Service connections Reduction                          10%                10%                 10% for Pokhara
Number of NWSC Staff/1O0O connections
Kathmandu Valley Towns                                  19                 16                       16
Outside Valley Towns                                    19                 13                       12
Annex 1D: Financial Indicators
(NRs. in Million)
1992               1993                1994                 1995                   1996                    1997                  1998
Appr.   Actual   Appr.    Actual      Appr.    Actual       Appr.    Actual      Appr.       Actual       Appr.      Actual      Appr.    Actual
Total Revenue                124.2    108.6    137.6    139.6       176.4     179.6      224.7     207.2      249.5        278.1       293.8       304.1      364.6     339.1
Operating Cost               107.2    97.1    119.7    105.3        131.7     114.9      144.3     139.5       158.9       211.3       175.1       242.7      190.8     280.4
Operating Surplus            16.5      11.5     17.9     34.3       44.7       64.7      80.4       67.7       90.6        66.78       118.7       61.38      177.7      58.7
Depreciation                 24.6      16.5     24.9      16.1      24.9       14.7      55.8       25         70.5        25.85       71.14       26.5       119.9      33.3
Working Ratio                0.9       0.9      0.9       0.8        0.7       0.6        0.6       0.7        0.6          0.8         0.6         0.8        0.5       0.8
Operating Ratio               1.1      1.0      1.1       0.9        0.9       0.7        0.9       0.8         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.9        0.8       0.9
Collection Efficiency          -       90                 76         -         84          -         99                     91                      76          -         89
(percent)                 I          _I_I
"'     In Kathmandu total saving by Unaccounted for Water (UFW) program = 2.56 mid. Supply volume average 107 mid (varies 85-125 mid) Percentage reduction by UFW program = 2.5 percent based on 4.5
hours/day of supply @ 3m pressure. Supply hours reduced from 6 hours to 4.5 hrs (average) over the past six years.
22



ITariffpercu.m. (NRs.)    I-    13.5 1                    4.5        - 1      6     1             6.21              1    7.0    1           1 6.61                16.8
I Total Arrears                       44.15              77.95               107.43              109.95                 136.32                 198.67                6.8
| Debt. collection period              148               204                  218                 194                    180                    238                 204.20
23



Annex IE: Water Supply: Production and Coverage
S.N.              Item                  All NWSC Towns                                                    Kathmandu Valley Towns                                             Outside the Valley Towns
1992    1993    1994       1995     1996      1997      1998     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996       1997      1998      1992    1993    1994       1995    1996    1997    1998
Population
I  Total Population ('000)            1420    1486      1554     1625      1699      1910     1994       780     814      849     886     924      1097      1142      640      672      705      739     775      613     852
2  Population Served ('000)            891     927       971      1019     1071      1436      1504      533      551     571     593     617      953        989       358     376       400     426     454      483     515
3  Population Served (percent)          63      62        62       63        63      75.1      75.4       68      68       67      67      67        87        87        56      56        57      58      59    59.4    60.4
Water Supply
4  Total (average) Produced (mld)      1421    1411      149       1511     157       169       170       57       56      85      95      100      107       107        55      55        56      56      50       62      63
5  Total Treatment Capacity (nid)     35.3    35.3      61.8      83.9      83.9     87.9      87.9      35.3    35.3    61.8    83.9    83.9       87.9     87.9 !            -                                          -
6  TotalStorage Capacity (ml)         39.9    40.4      41.5      42.6      42.6     42.6      42.6      27.5     21    29.1    30.2    30.2        30.2     30.2      12.4    12.4      12.4    124      12.4    12.4    12.4
7  Unaccounted for Water (percent)    -       -        -                            -         -40                 40       40      40      40      3232                  40      40        40      40      40       39      39
8  Per capita Consumption (lcd)      =        =       =          -                                        98      94       89      96      97        76        74        92      88        83      79      77       74    72.3
9  WaterAvailability hrs/day)                                                                              6                                        4.5       4.5        to         -            -       -           8
Connections
10  Total connections               113056  117845   124039   130920   138962   146565   153295    77468   79970   83505   87509   92240    97288   100916    35588   37875    40534   43465   46722   49277   52379
I   Total Private Connections       110890  115640   121791   128793   136790  1444370   151097    76092   73555   82071   86239   90970  960133/    99638    34798    7085    39720   42554   45820   48357   51459
12  Metered                          89362   92878    98784   105526   115568   121075   126576    58670   60363   63639   67237   72921    75835    78496    30692   32515    35145   38289   42647   45240   48082
13  Unmetered                        21528  22762    23007    23267    21222    23265    24519    17422   18192   18432   19002   18049    20178    21142              4106    4570      4575    4265    3173    3117    3377
14  Standpost                         2166    2205      2248     212.7     2172      2195      2198      1376    1415    1434    1270    1270      1275      1278       790     790       864     902      902     920     920
Sewera
15  No. of Connections               32733   32827    32948    33092    33117    33167    33215    32732   32827   32948   33092   33117    33167    33215                  No Sewer System
Tanker
16  Total Quantity sold (mld)          0.13    0.13     0.16       0.1      0.14     0.14      0.14      0.13    0.13    0.16      0.1    0.14      0.14     0.1
17  UJnit Cost (NRs./1000ltr)           70       70       70       120       1201     1201      120       70       7        0     1201    1201      1201      120                                                   
"     Database on Consumer Survey. Earlier years' figures do not include floating population.
21    Based on Binnie Thames Water estimate.
31    In 1997 out of total 96,013 private connection in KVT, Domestic 91091; Institutional 2,136; Conmmercial 1,296; Other 906.
24



Annex 2A: Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                    Appraisal           Mid Term          Actual/Latest       Percentage of
Estimate            Review              Estimate           Appraisal
Technical Assistance & Training                     6.70               10.13                6.59                98.3%
Consumer Education & Community Participation"'
0.36               0.28                 0.28               77.8%
Management Support-"                                3.04                2.01                2.01                66.1%
Kathmandu Valley Towns
New Source:         Detailed Design                 4.00                .                     -                  0%
Rehabilitation:     Water Supply                    24.40               16.26               5.15                21.2%
Ground Water Treatment?'                            11.00              NBF4'               NBF '                 0%/0
Rehabilitation of Sewers                            9.20                3.40                  -                  0%
Central Facilities and Plants                       3.50                3.26                3.39                96.9%
Outside the Valley Towns
Water Supply Rehabilitation                         5.80                3.25                1.97                34.0%
Sanitation Improvement                              1.60                 -                    -
Facilities and Plant                                1.40                                      -
Other (Taxes, Duties & land)                                            0.70                0.70                  -
Total                                               71.00               39.29               20.09                28.3
Govemment of France-Customer Billing                  -                                     0.73                  -
Government of Norway - Unaccounted for Water &
Sanitation                                                             2.00'               2.00                  -
Total Project Cost                                  71.00               41.29               22.82                32.1
" UNDP funded.
Y   Groundwater Treatment and conjunctive use pipeline works subsequently funded separately by JICA grant of US$29.25 million equivalent,
IDA loan subsequently reallocated to finance additional distribution rehabilitation under the 15-Year Development Program.
' Amount of NORAD fund to be confirmed.
41  NBF = Not Bank Financed.
25



Annex 2B: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Expenditure           Procurement Method Appraisal Estimate                  Procurement Method, Mid-Term Estimate
_______         ___._._.                                                                                         Procurement Method Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB       NCB        Other '      NBF        Total       ICB         NCB        OtherY     NBF        Total     ICB        NCB       Other 1'    NBF!Y     Total
1. Works        40.29      9.47                             49.76       17.46         3.75        -                   21.21       3.70      2.07        -                    5.77
2. Goods         5.44       1.00                              6.44       4.26          -          0.70                 4.96       3.78       -         0.96                  4.74
3. Services       -         -           10.60       3.40     14.00        -                      10.13       4.29-'    14.42      -                    6.59       5.02S'    11.61
4. Misc.          -         -                       0.80      0.80        -            -           -         0.70      0.70       -          -          -         0.70       0.70
Total        45.73     10.47        10.60        4.20    71.00       21.72         3.75       10.83      4.99      41.29      7.48       2.07       7.55      5.72      22.82
6  Includes technical assistance and training procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Worl Bank as Executing Agency" dated 1981, and
equipment and materials procured under shopping procedures.
7' Includes: $2.19m UNDP grant; $2.00m NORAD grant; and $0.1 Om HMG/N.
"  Includes: $2.19m UNDP grant; $2.00m NORAD grant; $0.73 m GovL of France grant; and $0.1 Om HMG/N.
4  NBF = Not Bank Financed. (NBF items include UNDP, NORAD, Govt. of France grants for technical assistance, HMG/N counterpart funds and HMG/N funded taxes and duties ($0.70m).
26



Annex 2C: Project Financing by Component (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Cor   onent                Appraisal Estimate                Mid-term Review                      Actual/Latest Estimate                   Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt.   Co-    Total  Bank    Govt.         Co-      Total     Bank      Govt.       Co-      Total     Bank      Govt.      Co-       Total
financier                         finander                     .           financer                                financier
Technical Assistance &     6.70               -   6.70   10.13                   -      10.13     6.59          -         -      6.59     98.40               -           98.4
Training                          _       _
Consumer Education &          -       .    0.36    0.36       -                0.28     0.28         -       0.06      0.22      0.28         .                61.10      61.1
Community Participation
Management Support            .  _         3.04    3.04  -_                    2.01     2.01         -       0.04      1.97      2.01         .                64.80      64.8
Kathmandu Valey Towns                                                                                            .
New Source:                _           ._.
Detailed design            4.00   _           .   4.00        -                         0.00         -          -                   0         -                    -      0.00
Water Supply Rehabilitation    21.46    2.94  -  24.40   14.14       2.12               16.26     4.55        0.6                5.15     21.20     20.40          -    41.60
Ground Water Treatment     9.75    1.25       -  11.00        .         -               0.00                                        0                    -                0.00
Rehabilitation of Sewers   8.16    1.04       -   9.20    3.04       0.36               3.40                                        0                              -      0.01
Central facilities & Plans  3.11    0.39      -   3.50    3.06       0.20               3.26      3.39          -                3.39     91.70         -          -    91.70
Towns Outside the
Kathmandu Valley
Water Supply Rehabilitation  4.50    1.30     -   5.80    2.63       0.62               3.25      1.60       0.37                1.97     35.60     28.50          -    64.10
Sanitation Improvement     1.24    0.36       -   1.60        -         -               0.00                                        0-    -                        -      0.00
Facilities an Plants       1.08   0.32        -    1.401                                0.00                                        0                              -      0.00
Customner Billing             -       -       -   0.00                                  0.00                           0.73      0.73                              -      0.00
Unaccounted for water &                       -   0.00                        2.00      2.00                              2      2.00                              -      0.00
sanitadion___
Miscellaneous                        : -      -   0.00        -      0.70        -      0.70         -       0.70         -      0.70            _-                       0.
Total           60.00    7.60    3.40   71.00   33.00     4.00      4.29     41.29     16.13       1.77      4.92     22.82     27.90     23.30     144.70     32.10
27



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefit
An economic analysis was not conducted at project Completion - Please see text.
28



Annex 4A: Bank Inputs - Missions
Stage of Project Cycle     Month/      Specialized Staff       Rating       Rating Develop.
Year    Skills and Number of    Impl. Status       Impact
Persons
Preparation                       3/89            EN-4
Pre-Appraisal                     6/89     Leg, EN-3, FA, Con.-2
Appraisal                         11/89      Leg, Con-4, EN-4
Post Nego./Supervision            4/90          FA, EN-2
Post Nego../Supervision           6/90            EN-3
Post Nego../Supervision           9/90             FA
Post Nego../Supervision           1/91        EN-2, FA, Con.
Post Nego../Supervision           5/91         FA-2, EN-2              I                1
Supervision                       9/91         Con, FA, En            1                 1
Supervision                       3/92           FA, EN               I                 I
Supervision                       6/92         CP, FA, EN             3                2
Supervision                       11/92          FA, EN               3                2
Supervision                       3/93         CP, FA, EN             3                2
Supervision                       6/93           FA, EN               2                2
Supervision                       11/93        CP, FA, EN             2                 2
Supervision                       3/94         CP, FA, EN             3                 3
Supervision                       9/94         CP, FA, EN             U                U
Supervision                       3/95           EN, FA               U                U
Supervision                       7/96            Proc
Supervision                       11/96       FA, Con, EN-2           U                U
Supervision                       5/97         EN-3, Proc             U                U
Supervision                       3/98        PS, EN-3, FA            U                U
Supervision                       7/98          TTL,EC                U                U
Supervision                       11/98     TTL, FA-2, WSA,           S                U
___________ __________ __________Proc
Supervision                       12/98         PS, EN-2              U                U
Staff Skills                                 Performance Ratings
Con - Consultant                             I - Minor or No Problems
EC - Economist                               2 - Moderate Problems
EN - Engineer                                3 - Major Problem
FA - Financial Analyst                       S Satisfactory
TTL - Task Team Leader                       HS Highly Satisfactory
CP - Community Participation Specialist      U Unsatisfactory
MF - Municipal Finance Specialist
PS - Private Sector Specialist
SA - Social Anthropologist
WSA - Water & Sanitation Advisor
29



Annex 4B: Bank Inputs - Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
Staff weeks                  US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                                 31.3                         81.5
Appraisal                                                  30.5                         83.5
Negotiation                                                22.7                         68.9
Supervision                                               300.5                        934.3
Completion                                      Not available in new System    Not available in new System
Total                                              385.0                       1,168.2
Through May 12, 2000
SOURCE: REPORT COSR2 AND SAP
30



Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives'/Outputs of Components2
Objectives/Outputs               Highly       Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory          Highly         Not Applicable
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
Macro Policies                                                                                                    x
Sector Policies                                                             x
Physical                                                                    X
Financial                                                                   X
Institutional Development                                                   X
Environmental                                                               X
Social                                                                                                            X
Poverty Reduction
Gender
Other (specify)
Private Sector Development                                                  X
Public Sector Management                                                    x
Other (specify)
Annex 6A: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory           factory     Unsatisfactory       Highly Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance
Lending                                                                X
Supervision           __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _X_                      _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
Overall              _                                                 X
Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                              X
Govt. Implementation                                                         x
Imp. Agency. Perf.                                                          x
Overall             _   _   _     _   _      _  _       __x
3 1



Annex 6B: Changes in Government from 1990 - 1999
SN       Prime Ministers                Cabinet Composition                   From                 To           Duration
(in Month
approx.)
1  Mr. Krishna Prasad Bhattarai  Coalition interim government of Nepali     April 19, 1990      May 28, 1991           13.5
(Nepali Congress)            Congress (NC), United Marxist-Leninist
(CPN-UML), Royal Nominees,
Independent
2  Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala    Nepali Congress Government                   May 29, 1991  November 28, 1994           42.6
(Nepali Congress)
3  Mr. Manmohan Adhikari        CPN-UML Government                      November 29, 1994 September 10, 1995            9.5
(CPN-UML)
4  Mr. Sher Bahadur Deuba       Coalition government of NC, Rastriya    September 11, 1995      March 9, 1997          18.2
(Nepali Congress)            Prajatantra Party (RPP) and Nepal
Sadvawana Party
5  Mr. Lokendra Bahadur Chand  Coalition government of RPP-Chand,          March 10, 1997      October 5, 1997          7.0
(RPP-Chand)                  CPN-UML and Nepal Sadbhawana Party
6  Mr. Surya Bahadur Thapa      Coalition government of RPP-Thapa, NC      October 6, 1997      April 11, 1998          6.2
(RPP - Thapa)                and Nepal Sadbhawana Party
7  Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala    Nepali Congress                              April 12, 1998    August 25, 1998          4.5
(Nepali Congress)
8  Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala    Coalition government of NC and Marxist-    August 26, 1998  December 22, 1998           3.9
(Nepali Congress)            Leninist                                               _
9  Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala    Coalition government of NC, CPN-UML    December 23, 1998         May 26, 1999           5.1
(Nepali Congress)            and Nepal Sadbhawana Party
32



Annex 6C: Changes in NWSC Chairman and General Manager
S.N. |          Name             Date of Appointment Date of Departure Duration (Month) |              Remarks
I              from Office   I_I
(A) Secretaries, Ministry of Housing & Physical Planning/Chairman, NWSC Board
1   Mr. Tej Prasad Upadhyay           October, 1991   November, 1992                 14.2
2   Mr. Shiv B. Pradhananga          December, 1992      October, 1994               23.3
3   Mr. Varun Prasad Shrestha       November, 1994         April, 1995                6.0
4   Mr. Shambhu S.P. Kayastha             May, 1995   November, 1995                  7.1
5   Mr. D.B. Bhattarai               November, 1995       March, 1997                17.2 Chairman from Nov., 95 to May,
96
6   Mr. Khagendra Basnyat                April, 1997   September, 1998               17.3
Duration Average*                                        11.9
(B) Executive Chairman/General Managers, Nepal Water Supply Corporation
7   Mr. G.R.S. Kharel                December, 1990   December, 1992                 25.4
8   Mr. P.R. Bista                     January, 1993   December, 1994                24.3
9   Mr. N.M. Pradhan                   January, 1995       April, 1995                4.0 Acting for General Manager
10  Mr. N.M. Pradhan                      May, 1995       August, 1995                4.1 Acting General Manager
11  Mr. D.B. Shrestha                September, 1995        April, 1996               8.1
12  Mr. M.B. Karki                        May, 1996         April, 1997              12.1 Executive Chairman cum General
____________ _   ___Manager
13  Mr. A.K. Ranjitkar                    May, 1997       March, 1998                11.1
14  Mr. K.N. Bhattarai                    April, 1998
Duration Average*                                         7.6
(C) Project Manager for inside the Valley Towns
15  Mr. Gautam Bahadur Amatya                   19911  December, 1992                14.0
16  Mr. Madan Shankar Shrestha         January, 1993   September, 1998               69.0
Duration Average*                                           69.0
(D) Project Manager for Outside the Valley Towns
17  Mr. Noor Kumar Tamrakar            January, 1993    February, 1995               26.3
18  Mr. Gyanesh Bajracharya             March, 1995   September, 1995                 7.1
19  Mr. Noor Kumar Tamrakar            October, 1995    February, 1997               17.2
20  Mr. M.N. Vaidya                      March, 1997   September, 1998                18.3
Duration Average*                                           17.2
Note:
*        Duration average is only calculated from January 1, 1995 onward.
33



Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
(i)    Staff Appraisal Document - April 17, 1991
(ii)    Development Credit Agreement - October 10, 1991
(iii)   Project Agreement - October 10, 1991
(iv)   Pre-appraisal Mission Reports
(v)    Appraisal Mission Reports
(vi)   Supervision Mission Reports
(vii)  Mid-term Review Mission Reports
(viii)  ICR Mission Reports
(ix)   Quality Assurance Group's Report
(x)    Nepal Water Supply Corporation Act, 1989
34



Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey Results
A survey of beneficiaries is not anticipated.
35



Annex 9A: Stakeholder Workshop Results
Assumptions                                           Barriers                                        Recommendations
To understand and assess how the participants perceived  To understand the types of, and reasons for the barriers   The exercise resulted in the following recommendations.
and interpreted the context and the environment within  the executives faced, the participants were asked to
which the project was designed and executed, they were    identify them. This exercise helped to understand the
asked to list the assumptions.                      actions taken.
NWSC will exercise its autonomy:                    Political:                                         Partnership in the development process:
*   The Government and NWSC executives assumed that   *   The executives faced political pressure; there was a  *   The Government, NWSC and the World Bank need to
NWSC will be allowed to exercise autonomy and       lack of political climate conducive for the       work together on the institutional reform measures before
institutional capacity building will happen through the  management to work smoothly. Government's    implementing such programs. To design and implement
management support contract. This would help to     commitment to ownership of the project seemed to   organization development programs effectively, the real
execute the project effectively. The institutional  be lacking. Constant change of government and its  organizational capacity of the institution be assessed.
building process would specifically address the     consequences on the change in management of
technical, financial and operational capacity of NWSC  NWSC plagued the process of preparation and  Consensus building on programs and activities:
which would have ripple effects on its other activities.  implementation.
It is important to build consensus among all stakeholders,
NWSC would address its role & jurisdiction:         Institutional change:                                 especially staff and other executing agencies, on the
programs to support management of such institutions. A
*  The NWSC would in the process of its institutional  *   The Management Support Program faced many      legal framework (specifying the terms and conditions
capacity building would address its identity, role and  unforeseen challenges and affected the smooth  including terms of appointment of Board Chairman and
jurisdiction  and    management issues such  as      execution of other components.                    General Manager) should be established for a conducive
delegation, decision making, financing, contracting                                                   institutional environment and then be committed to stick
etc.                                            Exercise of autonomy & authority:                     by it.
Rehabilitation works would be effectively executed:  *   The management of NWSC in the wake of the    Institutional capacity & responsibility sharing:
constant political influence and change of    *  Where the funding and the project size are large, ways
*   The rehabilitation of the age old water supply and  leadership was unable to take a firm stand; make  should be sought to share the responsibility of the main
sewerage system could be improved drastically within  decisions and exercise the authority vested on it.  executing agency so as to avoid the failure of one project
the allocated budget and human resources assigned to  Hence, during implementation, NWSC was unable   activity obstructing the progress of other activities.
it.                                                 to address questions raised on its role and
jurisdiction. It therefore had to search for solutions  Assessment and use of local resources:
Institutional change would improve execution:           which did not meet its intended objectives and  *  For the development of the country, assess the quality and
which were time consuming.                        availability of local manpower and expertise so as to make
*   The process of institutional capacity building would                                                  the fullest use of available local resources.
be welcomed by the management and staff ofNWSC,
and that it would ease the process of institutional
reform.
36



Annex 9B: Stakeholder Workshop Process
A stakeholder workshop was held in Kathmandu on May 26, 2000 to discuss the findings of the draft
ICR. The Workshop was attended by 38 participants. The process was facilitated by three facilitators as
the participants divided into three groups - one per the three project objectives:
*       Strengthen NWSC's technical, financial, managerial and operations/maintenance capability;
*       Increase utilization of existing systems through rehabilitation and extensions;
*       Improve public health through:
- consumer education programs; and
- improved quality and increased quantity of water to consumers.
After the presentation of the findings in the draft ICR, the following processes took place.
Individual Work 1: "Reflection, drawing on our experiences"
As per the objective assigned to each group, individual participants were asked to reflect and answer the
following questions:
1 .    What were the assumptions9 underlying the above objectives?
(List at least two assumptions for the "project objective" assigned to the group.)
2.      What barriers", were faced during implementation and how did they affect the achievements of
the objectives? (List at least two barriers for the "project objective" assigned to the group.)
Individual Work 2: "Feedback on Main Findings of ICR"
On the cards provided, participants were asked to write individual feedback by providing overall and
specific comments on the findings of the ICR.
Group Work: "Discussion on the Reflections and Suggestions for Future"
After the individual exercises, the participants congregated in their respective groups to list the
assumptions and barriers, and to discuss and prioritize them. Each group came up with suggestions and
recommendations for the future.
Group Presentations: On completion of the group exercises, each group presented the outcomes in the
plenary session.
9Assumption: Important events, conditions or situations which are necessary for project success, but which are largely or completely beyond
the control of the project.
0 Barriers: Blocks or contradictions that obstruct the realization of objectives. Barriers are existing realities, not absences or vacuums.
37



Annex 9C: Newspaper Clipping on the ICR Stakeholder Workshop
The Kathmandu Post Daily
WB admits its mistake
By a Post Reporter
KATHMANDU, May 27 - World Bank has shared blame with the government for the failure of Nepal
Drinking Water Supply Corporation (NDWSC).
World Bank had been providing technical and financial assistance to NDWSC since the last 34 years.
Implementation Completion Report prepared by the World Bank which was made public at a
programme yesterday has pointed out that the government's failure to grant autonomy to the
corporation, change of Board members with the change in government and the provision of keeping
secretary at the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning as the chairman of the Board as the factors
for the failure of the bank funded project.
The report which was presented by Tashi Tenzing of the World Bank states that the Bank with its two
decades of experience should have used its influence to make some institutional changes. The report
also states that the Bank failed to realise that the government's commitment towards autonomy is weak.
World Bank has been providing assistance to Kathmandu and other cities drinking water and sanitation
projects since 1974.
Tenzing said the places which used to get six hours daily supply of water before the implementation of
the project receives water in alternate days now.
Koushalnath Bhattarai, General Manager of NDWSC, said "We have learnt many things from the
project which will help us in future endeavours".
38



Annex 10: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Completion Report
This report has been written as a part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared by
the World Bank. Some of the information on the project covered by the Bank are not duplicated in this
report.
1.    Source of Funding
AT APPRAISAL
The World Bank credit = SDR45.5 million (US$60.0 million)
UNDP grant = US$3.4 million
HMG = US$7.6 million
RESTRUCTURED PROJECT
WB credit = US$33.0 million
UNDP grant = US$2.29 million
NORAD grant = US$2.0 million
IHMG = US$4.0 million
Loan agreement signed: 10/10/91
Loan effective date: 15/10/92
Final Disbursement date: 31/03/99
Although the project was started with the arrival of the consultant in August 1991, the project was
suspended during the period Feb. 1995 to Dec. 1995 by the Bank due to non-compliance of covenants, in
reality all the project work stopped from Sept. 1994 in view of the looming project suspension. The
project was restructured in May 1997 and March 1998 WB mission and the credit amount was reduced to
US$33.0 million in May 1997 due to reduction in the scope of works.
2.    Project Objectives: The objectives of the UWSSRP has been: (i) to assist the borrower in
strengthening NWSC's financial, technical, managerial and operations and maintenance capabilities; (ii)
to increase utilization of existing water and sewerage systems through rehabilitation and extension; and
(iii) to improve public health through consumer education and improved quality and increased quantity of
water to consumers.
The objectives of the UWSSRP were revised during mid term review to: (i) transferring the responsibility
for managing NWSC's operations to a qualified and experienced private sector firm through a
management contract; (ii) increasing the supply of water in Kathmandu Valley and outside valley towns;
and (iii) improving sewerage operations, at the time of mid-term review of the UWSSRP.



3.    Achievement of Objective and Outputs
The objectives of the UWSSRP has been: (i) to assist the borrower in strengthening NWSC's financial,
technical, managerial and operations and maintenance capabilities; (ii) to increase utilization of existing
water and sewerage systems; (iii) to ensure the efficient delivery of good quality water to consumers; and
(iv) to improve public health.
The original project objective as mentioned above could only be met partially at the end of project
completion. The objective No (i), remained incomplete as the management support program which
primarily focused to address this objective was terminated by the UNDP in 1995. However, NWSC has
carried out many activities in consultation with the Bank to improve its functioning. Some of the major
activities are:
(a)   introduction of new organization structure as recommended by the Management Support team;
(b)   implementation of new personnel regulation which provided more autonomy to NWSC in terms
of recruitment, promotion, punishment and incentive provision;
(c)   implementation of new financial regulation which simplified the financial procedures and gave
more authority to NWSC to make new simplified and practical procedures;
(d)    establishment of management information system;
(e)    preparation of retrenchment plan and its phase wise implementation; and
(f)   implementation of new water connection policy, sewer connection policy and vehicle policy
which established norms for operational activities.
Some of the major institutional improvements and capacity building achieved during the project period
are as follows:
(i)    Reduction of staffing ratio: The number of staff per one thousand connection at the start of the
project was 25, which has reduced to 15 in 1998 and is expected to reduce further to 9 by the year
2002.
(ii)    Auditing of accounts: NWSC had 3 years audit overdue at the time of appraisal. The status of
audit is upto date at present.
(iii)   Operation ratio: NWSC increased water tariff three times during the project period. Due to
increase in tariff and collection ratio, the operating ratio has improved from 1.1 in 1992 to 0.8 in
1998.
(iv)   Trained manpower: As a result of involvement of NWSC staff with the consultants and the
project activities and also the trainings (in country and foreign) provided to the NWSC staff in
design and construction supervisions many staff have been trained and have become experienced
to carry out project execution and management activities in future.
(v)    Enhancement of UFW management capability: NWSC completed successfully the program on
UFW management funded by Norwegian grant in 1995. The staff trained under the program is
continuing UFW management program with the funds from NWSC and HMG. The success of
this program has established the capability of NWSC to execute such program.
(vi)   Computerized billing: The computerization of the billing has been initiated on a pilot basis in
one of the branch office of Kathmandu.
Objection No. (ii) has been partially fulfilled as utilization of existing wells will increase water supply in
dry season by about 23 mld in Kathmandu and the water sources at Pokhara, Dharan and Hetauda are
increased by about 8 mid, 4 mid, and 7 mid respectively due to rehabilitation/extension works carried out.
2



The rehabilitation/extension works of existing distribution system in Pokhara has improved the efficiency
of the system to deliver water.
Objective No. (iii) have also been partially met due to some improvement in public health (unquantified)
with the increased volume of water supplied.
The revised objective No. (i) of the project have been partially met with the preparation of RFP for
bringing in the management contractor. NWSC has done its best to achieve this objective by providing
necessary budgets and information. The private operator was supposed to be in place by April 1999, but
this did not happen. NWSC has no control in bringing in the private sector. This has put some degree of
uncertainty in the modality of operations of the Kathmandu Valley facilities in near future. Revised
objective No. (ii) have been partially met with the increase in quantity of water in KVT and OVT at the
end of the project. Revised objective No. (iii) could not be met as the sewerage package was cancelled.
4.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Some of the factors affecting implementation and outcome of the UWSSRP are mentioned below:
4.1    Restriction on NWSC autonomy: Although the NWSC Act allowed NWSC to raise tariff as is
when necessary, the proposal for tariff had to be cleared from the government as it had some
political implication. Without increasing the tariff, it was difficult to meet the financial covenant
of the credit agreement. Like wise NWSC did not have full authority to revise its personnel and
financial regulations as felt necessary.
4.2   Frequent changes in NWSC management: Due to frequent changes in the government during the
project period, the Chairman and the General Manager also changed consequently. These
changes caused delays in decision makings related to the project.
4.3    Non-payment of Government arrears: Some of the covenants in the credit agreement are not
practical and it led to non-compliance of the covenants at all time of the project life. As per the
covenant in the credit agreement, the government agencies were required to clear their dues
within one month of billing. This covenant was not practical as the NWSC financial rule allowed
consumers to pay their dues paying some penalty even after 6 months from the due date.
4.4    Difficulties in implementing pre-qualification and post qualification processes: During the early
stage of the project, it was planned to pre-qualify the contractors for bidding as per the World
Bank guidelines. In most cases the contractors failed to give the required information sought by
us adequately. As sufficient number of contractors could not meet the pre qualification criteria,
pre qualification process was abandoned and to expedited the work, post qualification process
was adopted. The post qualification process was also not very much productive, as the bidders
were lodging complains against each other about the validity of post qualification information
provided. This led to serious delay in bid evaluation.
4.5    Limited response during bidding by international contractors: The bidding packages under the
project were packaged allowing high volume of work to attract large international contractors.
Although the initial pre-qualification process attracted some non-Asian bidders, during bidding
only Chinese and Indian bidders participated. The limited response may be due to inappropriate
packaging in which material supply, new construction and rehabilitation works were all grouped
into one package.
3



4.6    Project/component restructuring at inappropriate time: Project/component restructuring was
carried out when the bids were already under evaluation for most of the packages of work. As
the scope of works were curtailed, these bids had to be cancelled and fresh bids called for the
revised scope of work, for which fresh bidding had to be prepared. This led to serious delay and
loss of credibility with the contractors.
4.7    Project procurements linked to institutional development: The World Bank team often linked the
progress of procurement activities to institutional improvement. As the institutional improvement
is not always in control of NWSC only in most cases, these could not be implemented as desired
by the Bank on time and the Bank delayed giving no-objection to procurement activities leading
to slow disbursement.
4.8    Restricted/limited use of local contractors/consultants: Initially the project was designed to
attract international contractors and consultants. As the project size was reduced for the OVT,
local consultants and contractors were involved for the OVT works. These works were
completed on time and at a significantly low cost. Had the project been designed inviting greater
participation from local consultants/contractors much physical works could have been completed.
4.9    Complains lodged by unsuccessful bidders: Valuable project implementation time was lost due
to complains lodged by unsuccessful bidders and consultants. These type of complaints are quite
common in other projects as well. The time lost could have been minimized by screening the
complaints by the Bank and NWSC.
4.10   Bank-NWSC relationship: The Bank-NWSC relationship has not been very smooth during the
implementation of the project. It is evident from the various Aide Memoires that the Bank did
not allow NWSC to proceed with the physical works for some unknown reasons.
4.11   Difficulties in interpreting covenants: The World Bank noted in several of their Aide Memoire
that the management and operations of NWSC was not progressing as required by the Project
Agreement (PA). As the indicators clearly defining these requirements were not mentioned in the
PA, there was always difference in opinion between the Bank and NWSC regarding meeting
these requirement.
4.12   Consultants performance:  The consultants performance have generally been satisfactory.
However, the performance of some consultants have been less than satisfactory contributing to
delay in project implementation. The design of major works of the project in Kathmandu Valley
have been delayed significantly which contributed to the delay in issuance of bids.
4.13   Contractors performance:  The civil works contractors performance have generally been
satisfactory. The foreign inside valley contractor completed all their contractual works and some
additional works timely. The local contractors for the outside the valley towns civil works
performed satisfactorily completing all the works within the short contract period. However, the
performance of some suppliers were not satisfactory leading to cancellation of contracts.
4.14   Project suspension, no time extension covering the suspension period:   The project
implementation time was over seven years from the date of signing of credit agreement to the
final disbursement date. All design works were planned to be completed in the first year, with
the target to complete the bidding and work execution in the remaining time. However, due to
4



extension of the design period, due to project suspension, due to repeated bidding and project
restructuring, significant amount of time was lost. The project suspension came at the most
inappropriate time of the project life when the work should have been in full swing. The Bank's
refusal to extend the project period forced curtailment of the project works.
4.15   Duty exemption: As agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, all the goods imported for the project
is exempt from custom duty and local taxes. As this has not been specifically mentioned in the
creditlproject agreement, NWSC had a difficult time in getting duty exemption leading to some
delay in receiving goods.
5.    Sustainability
The project may be rated as sustainable as the works incorporated in the project are sustainable based on
the present NWSC's institutional and financial capability.
6.    Bank Performance
The Bank performance during project implementation has generally been satisfactory. NWSC's project
performance could have been significantly better had the Bank given adequate emphasis in meeting the
physical targets and the Bank not suspended the project.
7.    Borrower Performance
The performance of NWSC during project implementation has generally been satisfactory. Although the
NWSC's performance was less than desirable during the earlier phase of the project period, it improved
significantly at a later stage. NWSC's performance would have improved if it would have been given the
opportunity to work in an environment of full autonomy and the NWSC Board have been small and
stable. Similarly, the NWSC management should have been given more authority to complement the size
of the project.
8.    Lesson Learned
8.1.   Prioritizing institutional improvement: As the institutional development in parallel with the
execution of physical works has not been successful due to various reasons, it is desirable that the
institutional development as agreed between the Bank and Borrower take place before the
execution of physical works. Once the institutional improvement is in place the progress of
physical works should not be disturbed by the Bank or the Borrower.
8.2.   Adequate autonomy to NWSC: The NWSC Board should be fully autonomous and have full
authority to appoint personnel, to fix salary, to provide incentives and punishments, to appoint the
General Manager and to revise the tariff. The General Manager should be given full authority
related to the execution of the project.
8.3.   Defining institutional improvement indicators: The institutional improvement requirement and
indicators should be clearly defined at the project appraisal stage. There should not be any
confusion about the indicators during execution of the project.
8.4.   Generous use of local contractor/consultants capability:   As the capability of local
contractor/consultants have increased significantly in recent years, generous use of these local
5



capability should be encouraged in the future projects in order to save time and money and also
to encourage the local construction industry.
8.5.   Contract packaging more rather than few: The contracts should be packaged in such a way that
there are more contractors involved during execution. If few number of large packages are
involved the non-performance by a contractor would affect a very large chunk of physical work.
The separate packaging of materials supply and civil works would have been a better option
specially in case of rehabilitation works.
8.6.   Pre-qualification and post qualification process, if post-qualify use two envelope system: The pre
qualification process in the UWSSRP was not successful due to poorly designed pre-qualification
criteria and the cancellation of first pre qualification attempt. Post qualification process was
adopted at a later stage without much success mainly due to complains lodged by unsuccessful
bidders. It is desirable that pre-qualification documents are properly designed and adopted. In
case the post qualification process is followed two envelope procedure (opening of financial bids
of successfully post qualified bidders only) be adopted.
8.7.   Short duration project life more appropriate: The duration of the UWSSRP turned out to be very
long. In case of rehabilitation project where the works are mainly deferred maintenance and
requires quick action, the duration of project should be short. In future, such project should be of
short duration so that the project could be timely completed. As the project would be smaller in
size, the period of non-utilization of credit money would be very much less. Such project even if
cancelled due to unforeseen seasons would have a very small impact on the performance of
NWSC.
8.8.   Project objectives should not be too rigid (rehabilitated well vs. new well): The project was
designed during the appraisal stage in such a way that rehabilitation of existing works only be
carried out during the execution stage. This restriction lead to uneconomic execution of some
components. In future it is desirable that the project works/components are flexible for timely
and economic execution of the works.
8.9.   Design and supervision of the project works: The design and construction supervision period for
the consultants should be defined clearly in the contract agreement. The construction supervision
phase should start only after successful completion of all design works by the consultants. It
should be mentioned clearly in the contract that the employer would have full authority to cancel
the consultancy contract, if the good quality design work is not completed timely.
8.10.  WB supervision mission team: The team members of the Bank supervision mission should
consist of personnel with previous experience in similar projects in the region. The positive
attitude of the Bank mission members will have positive impact on the progress of the project
works.
8.11.  Nature of covenants: Covenants which are not practically achievable should not be included in
the credit/project agreement.
6



