Page  1
January 23, 1992
Mr. T.N. Pant
Secretary
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu, Nepal
Mr. G.R.S. Kharel
General Manager
Nepal Water Supply Corporation
P.O. Box 5349
Kathmandu, Nepal
Re:
Development Credit No. 2239-NEP (Urban water Supply and
Sanitation Rehabilitation Project) - Amendment of the
Development Credit and Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement  (Urban Water Supply and Sanitation 
Rehabilitation Project) between the Kingdom of Nepal (the "Borrower") and the 
International Development Association (the "Association") dated October 10, 1991, and 
to the Project Agreement between the Association and the Nepal Water Supply 
Corporation  ("NWSC"), of even date.   We refer also to your Ministry's letter of 
December 31, 1991 requesting the Association to waive the condition of effectiveness 
set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it has 
agreed to amend the Development Credit and Project Agreements as follows:
1.
Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby deleted, and 
Sections 6.01 (c), and 6.01 (d)  are renumbered 6.01 (b) and 6.01  (c), respectively.
2.
Paragraph 5 of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended to read as follows:
"Provision of equipment and materials to carry out a leak detection and 
control 
program and an on-site sanitation program."
 
3.
The term "FY1992" in the 6th line of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement is 
hereby amended to read "FY1993".
4.
A new Section 4.05 shall be inserted in the Project Agreement and shall read as 
follows:
"Not later than July 15,  1992,  NWSC shall  increase its annual sewerage 
charges  
from their present levels to a new level equivalent, in the case of each 
consumer residing 
in a sewered area, to 50 percent of the metered water charges 
periodically billed to such  
consumer, irrespective of whether the said consumer 
is connected to the sewer system or 
not."
 
All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement not amended 
hereby shall remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.   This Amendment 
shall become effective only upon receipt by the Association of both conformed copies 
of this Amendment duly signed by the Borrower and NWSC.
Sincerely,
Page  2
By /s/ Jochen Kraske
Director
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date  February 6, 1992
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
By
      Authorized Representative
Date:
February 6, 1992
