Page  1
October 2, 1992
Dr. T.N. Pant
Secretary
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu, Nepal
Mr. G.R.S. Kharel
General Manager
Nepal Water Supply Corporation
P.O. Box 5349
Kathmandu, Nepal
Re:
Development Credit No. 2239-NEP (Urban Water Supply
and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project) - Amendment of
the Development Credit and Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Urban Water Supply and Sanitation 
Rehabilitation Project) between the Kingdom of Nepal (the "Borrower") and the 
International Development Association (the "Association") dated October 10, 1991, as 
amended and to the Project Agreement between the Association and the Nepal Water 
Supply Corporation ("NWSC"), of even date therewith.  We refer also to your Ministry's 
letter of September 29, 1992 requesting the  Association to waive the condition of 
effectiveness set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it has 
agreed to amend the Development Credit and Project Agreements as follows:
I.
Development Credit Agreement
 
1.
The word "and" is inserted at the end of Section 6.01 (a); and
 
2.
Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby deleted, and 
Section 6.01 (c) is renumbered 6.01(b).
II.
Project Agreement
 
1.
A new Section 4.06 shall be inserted in the Project Agreement and shall read as 
follows:
"Not later than December 31, 1992 NWSC shall enter into a contract to 
retain and 
deploy a management team whose members' qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions 
of employment are satisfactory to the Association."
 
All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement not amended 
hereby shall remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us. This Amendment shall 
become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Association of one 
fully executed original of this amendment.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Jochen Kraske
Director, Country Department 1
South Asia Region
Page  2
Confirmed:
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 13, 1992
 
Nepal Water Supply Corporation
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 12, 1992
