%FF C AL
DOCU M ENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2239 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      A    b      0   , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2239 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             c, 1991, between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to three million three hundred sixty
four thousand dollars ($3,364,000) to assist in financing Parts A.1
(i) and A.2 of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement); and
(C)   the Project will be carried out by Nepal Water Supply
Corporation (NWSC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NWSC the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Crsdit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in th's Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NWSC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two exchanges of letters, the first dated September 26,
1989, as amended by telex dated October 26, 1989, and November 20,
1989, and the second dated February 25, 1990, and March 26, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "DOR" means the Department of Roads of the Borrower's
Ministry of Works and Transport;
(c)   "FYDP" means the NWSC's Fifteen-Year Development Program
of July 1989;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NWSC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(f)   "NWSC" means Nepal Water Supply Corporation, a cor-
poration wholly owned by the Borrower, established by virtue of the
Nepal Water Supply Corporation Act, 1989;
(g)   "NWSC Act" means the Nepal Water Supply Corporation Act,
1989;
(h)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean July 16 to July 15;
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NWSC, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
(j)   "NR" means Nepalese Rupee, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the


﻿-3-
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty five million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 45,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charge3 thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Sectioa 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in se:-ii-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing October 15, 2001 and ending April 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. NWSC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause NWSC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NWSC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NWSC to perform such
obligations, shall take all necessary measures to cause DOR to fully
collaborate with NWSC in order to ensure that the road cutting
activities, which are required for purposes of Parts B and C of the
Project, shall take place in a timely and efficient manner, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to NWSC an amount equivalent
to seventeen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,500,000), or such other amount as the Borrower and the
Association may otherwise agree from time to time, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and NWSC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall include, inter alia, interest at a
rate of 9% per annum, repayment of principal in 19 years, including
a grace period of 4 years, and the provision that the Borrower shall


﻿-6-
bear the foreign exchange risk. The Borrower shall make the balance
of the Credit available to NWSC as a grant.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1    the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by NWSC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake not to revise,
alter or in any manner modify the strategies contemplated by the
FYDP except in agreement with the Association; (ii) take all
necessary measures as shall be appropriate to ensure, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, full and timely payment by the
Borrower's departments, agencies and entities of all water and
sewerage charges to NWSC that are more than 30 days overdue; and
(iii) make full and timely payment of standpost charges to NWSC,
within 30 days following receipt by it of bills substantiating such
charges.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii)   ensure  that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than twelve months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to sup-
port the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall contribute in the course of
FY92 the sum of NRs. 22,000,000 to NWSC in the form of a subsidy,
such sum to be payable in quarterly equal installments on October
15, 1991, January 15, 1992, April 15, 1992 and July 15, 1992,
respectively.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NWSC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NWSC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   NWSC Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
- .               repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NWSC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
gm
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NWSC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.61 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿-9-
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been duly
executed on behalf of the Borrower and NWSC;
(b)   NWSC shall have revised its water tariffs, and put such
revision into effect, to levels which will increase its projected
revenues by at least 50% and shall have increased its sewerage
charges from their present levels to a new level equI.valent, in the
case of each consumer residing in a sewered area, to 50% of the
metered water charges periodically billed to such consumer,
irrespective of whether the said consumer is connected to the sewer
system or not;
(c)   a contract providing for NWSC's obligation to retain
and deploy a management team, whose members' qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to the Association, shall have been signed; and
(d)   the Borrower shall have (i) made full payment to NWSC
of all standpost charges that are more than 30 days overdue; (ii)
caused the Borrower's departments, agencies and entities to make a
full payment to NWSC of all water and sewerage charges that are more
than 30 days overdue; and (iii) caused NWSC to make full payment to
Nepal Electricity Authority of all electricity charges that are more
than 30 days overdue.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NWSC, and is legally binding upon NWSC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NWSC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NWSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 (a) and 4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-


﻿- 10 -
nate or on the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified focr the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:                Telex:
ARTHA                     2249-NP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
Byh54
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/sf l~
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:           26,500,000
(a)   procured                           100% of foreign
under inter-                        expenditures and
national                            70% of local ex-
competitive                        penditures
bidding
(b)   procured                           70%
under other
procurement
methods
(2)   Equipment and           6,600,000        100% of foreign
material                                  expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)   Consultants'            6,200,000        100%
services


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(4)   Training and            1,300,000        100%
consumer
education
(5)   Refunding               1,100,000        Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02
Advance                                   (c) of this
Agreement
(6)   Unallocated             3,800,000
TOTAL            45,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,300,000 may be made in
respect of Categories 1(b), (2) and (3) on account-of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1990.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower
in strengthening NWSC's financial, technical, managerial and opera-
tions and maintenance capabilities; (ii) to increase utilization of
existing water and sewerage systems; (iii) to ensure the efficient
delivery of good quality water to consumers; and (iv) to improve
public health.
The Project, which constitutes part of the first phase of the
FYDP, consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     NWSC
1.    Carrying out of:
(i)   a management support and training program; and
(ii)   technical assistance in, inter alia, the areas of
engineering design, project supervision and future
project preparation.
2.    Development and implementation of consumer education programs
relating to, inter alia, water, hygiene and consumer awareness.
Part B:     Kathmandu Valley Towns
1.    Repair and rehabilitation of, inter alia, tubewells, surface
and spring sources, water spouts, water treatment facilities,
reservoirs, meters, sewerage treatment facilities, water dis-
tribution networks, and sewer networks.
2.    Construction of water treatment facilities and tubewells.
3.    Extension of water and sewer distribution systems.
4.    Provision of facilities, vehicles, materials and equipment
for NWSC.


﻿- 15 -
5.    Carrying out of:
(i)   a leak detection and control program; and
(ii)   an on-site sanitation program.
Part C:     Towns Outside the Kathmandu Valley
1.    Repair and rehabilitation of tubewells, surface and spring
sources, transmission mains, water treatment facilities, reservoirs,
water distribution systems, facilities and plant.
2.    Construction of a new intake and ancillary works at Pokhara.
3.    Construction of water treatment facilities.
4.    Provision of facilities, vehicles, materials and equipment
for NWSC.
5.    Carrying out of an on-site sanitation program.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 17 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the AssocIation shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify


﻿- 18 -
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


