Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
MOD STAGE 
Report No 32161 
Project Name 
VENEZUELA- Montreal Protocol: Reduction of Ozone Depleting 
substances Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Environment (100%) 
Project ID 
P075502 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Venezuela   
Implementing Agency 
Fondo Venezolano de 
Reconversión Industrial y Tecnológica 
(FONDOIN) – Ministerio de Industrias Ligeras y Comercio 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [] C   [ ] FI   [] TBD  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Updated 
March 21, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
29 March 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
NA 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Venezuela is the last developing country to submit a CFC production closure project to the MLF for the 
implementation of the MP. It annually produces about 2000 MT of CFC-11&12, and domestically 
consumes almost 80% of this amount in the aerosols, foam and refrigeration sectors. This project will 
prematurely close CFC production in Venezuela, with a strong positive impact in the global CFCs supply 
market, and will also enable the GOV comply with the Montreal Protocol control measures on CFC 
production and consumption.  The table below shows CFC-11& 12 production and consumption figures 
from 1995 through 2003: 
 
Year
1995 
1996 
1997 
1998 
1999 
2000 
2001 
2002 
2003 
Consumption* 
 
3,220
3,050
3,704
3,213
2,188
2,703
2,546
1,554
1,389
Production 
 
4,483
4,435
5,649
3,739
2,864
2,264
2,721
1,637
2,024
*
Less than 1% corresponds to CFC-113+114+115 
 
Consumption is defined by the MP as the result of adding the Imports to the Production and subtracting 
the Exports (C = I + P 
–
E). In 2003, while the CFC Consumption figure was 1,389 MT, the actual 
reported use was 1,676 MT; the difference is explained by typical carry-over from the previous year. 
 
There is only one CFC-11&12 producing company in Venezuela (PRODUVEN), which also produces 
HCFC-22 (CFC alternative chemical). The present project will compensate PRODUVEN for the 
anticipated closure of the CFC production facility by the end of 2006, instead of the end of 2009. The 
compensation considers the incremental costs derived from the profit loss due to an anticipated closure of 
Page  2
the plant and the impact of the Montreal Protocol control measures, together with a labor package to the 
workers for the loss of employment. 
PRODUVEN will continue producing HCFC-22 after the closure of the CFCs manufacturing capacity. 
Production of HCFC-22 generates HFC-23 (CHF
3
)
which has an approved Global Warming Potential 
value of 11,700 tonnes CO2e/tonne HFC-23. The present project also intends to sell Emission Reductions 
(ERs) from the abatement of HFC-23 gas coming from the production of HCFC-22 to the World Bank's 
Carbon Finance Unit under the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).  
 
With regards to CFC use in the country, refrigeration servicing currently represents almost 80% of the 
country’s total CFC annual consumption, involving mobile air conditioning, domestic, industrial, and 
commercial refrigeration, as well as chillers. As previously mentioned, to address the remaining uses of 
CFCs, the EXCOM approved in April, 2004 the National CFC Phase-Out Plan (NPP) for Venezuela, to 
be executed by UNIDO as the Implementing Agency. However, based on the Bank’s successful 
experience in Mexico’s chiller replacement program, the GOV is requesting the Bank to implement the 
chiller component of the NPP, for which US$500,000 has been committed from the NPP to be transferred 
to the Bank under this project.  
 
By the end of 2002, the number of chillers still using CFCs in Venezuela was estimated in 290 units, with 
an installed capacity of 135 MT of CFC-11+12+113, and units aging between 15 and 30 years. This 
means that approximately 20 tons of CFCs are needed annually for servicing these units (15% of installed 
capacity). This operation aims at developing different financing options to create a funding mechanism 
acceptable to chiller owners to support the replacement of existing units in the country.  
 
Under this project, the GOV will promote: (a) new policy instruments to guarantee that CFC reductions 
are permanent and sustainable, and are achieved in the most cost effective manner; the policies to be 
designed would include maximum production caps and import/export control instruments;  (b) the 
development of funding conditions to finance the replacement of CFC chillers with energy-efficient CFC-
free systems; and (c) reduce technology risks and the associated uncertainty about the level of electricity 
savings, considering various financing options to assess which are more acceptable to different clients.  
 
Based on the Bank’s experience in CFC production closure projects in China, India and Argentina, and 
the successful project implementation in the chillers sector in Mexico, the GOV has requested the  Bank 
to prepare the proposed project, which is a continuation of the Bank’s involvement to enable Venezuela 
meet its obligations under the Montreal Protocol.   
 
Relevance to the CAS
:
The Bank’s Assistance Strategy for Venezuela, as outlined in the Interim Country 
Strategy of 2002, has been to engage in a dialogue with the government to help the country comply with 
the Montreal Protocol.  The Bank has an extensive portfolio of Montreal Protocol operations worldwide 
and the most relevant operations involving the production and chillers sectors. It has also developed close 
working relationships with major counterparts, thereby enhancing its credibility and the acceptability of 
its technical (TA) advice. The Bank is thus well placed to respond to the GOV’s requests for assistance by 
combining policy advice, investment financing and financing of TA. 
 
Carbon Finance
:
This project will set the framework to allow the selling of Emission Reductions (ERs) 
from the abatement of HFC-23 gas coming from the production of HCFC-22 to the World Bank's Carbon 
Finance Unit under the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). To that end, a 
complementary project will be processed to ensure that the HFC-23 that would otherwise be released to 
the atmosphere (and any HCFC-22 present in this waste stream) can be fully oxidized. The carbon 
emission reductions can be estimated at a maximum of 1.2 Mill tons of CO
2
equivalent per year. The 
project sponsor will benefit from this additional income, part of which will be used for sustainable 
development initiatives in Venezuela (still to be identified). In addition, the team may explore the 
Page  3
possibility of extending ERPAs (Emission Reduction Purchase Agreements) from energy savings 
associated with the replacement of old energy inefficient chillers by the new non-CFC efficient ones. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objectives of the proposed project are: 
 
a) Gradual Phase-out of CFC-11/12 Production
:
To enable early phase-out of CFC production in 
Venezuela (by the end of 2006), through a compensation program for profit losses, accompanied by 
enforcing institutional and legal mechanisms; and  
 
b) Chillers Replacement Program: 
To set-up a national system for replacement of inefficient CFC-
based chillers with energy-saving non-CFC-based units in a cost effective manner
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The project involves two main components: 
 
a)  CFC Production Phase-Out at PRODUVEN
:
The project will ensure that Ven
ezuela’s CFC production 
at PRODUVEN ceases earlier than mandated by the Montreal Protocol, through a compensation program. 
The EXCOM decided at its 44
th
 meeting in December 2004, to approve in principle US$16.05 Mill in 
funding for the phased reduction and closure of the entire CFC production in Venezuela, to be payable in 
five annual tranches (2004-2008). It includes (i) the compensation package to PRODUVEN for profit loss 
and labor compensation to the workers for the loss of employment (US$16.05 Mill)[hanneke5]; and (ii) 
Technical assistance
 
to the GOV for activities related to CFC production phase-out, including the design 
and implementation of policies and regulations, public awareness and information management systems 
to monitor the Plan (US$450,000). Through the compensation program, PRODUVEN will gradually 
reduce production of CFCs, while keeping production of HCFC-22, laying-off the personnel not required 
to continue with the latter’s production. [hanneke6]The equipment affected to CFC production will be 
dismantled / destroyed by completion of this component (end of 2006). The EXCOM has also approved 
additional 7.5% of project costs as support costs for the World Bank (US$1,237,500) as the implementing 
agency, to be distributed during the same time period. To ensure proper auditing and enforcement of the 
CFC production closure program, FONDOIN will receive Technical Assistance on (a) identification of 
supply CFC alternatives to cope with current demand; (b) set-up of import and export quotas/licensing 
system for CFCs and raw materials for CFC production; (c) auditing and production verification 
mechanisms; and (d) public awareness and communication activities. 
 
b) Chiller Replacement Program
:
The project will set up a national mechanism for replacement of 
chillers. The EXCOM decided at its 42
nd
 meeting in March 2004, to approve the National CFC Phase-Out 
Plan for Venezuela (NPP), to be implemented by UNIDO, which has a provision of US$500,000 to be 
transferred to the World Bank to carry out the Chillers Replacement Program. The GOV will contribute 
with additional US$500,000 as counterpart funds. The project will (a)
 
characterize the criteria used by 
chiller owners in the country in deciding to replace a chiller before the end of its remaining lifetime (e.g., 
perceptions of regulatory pressure, financing constraints, perceptions of electricity savings, performance 
and reliability, and environmental effects); (b) develop a menu of financing options to test acceptability 
by various types of chiller owners; (c) develop the incentive framework for chiller suppliers and 
installation firms to provide integrated services and increase reliability and performance in terms of 
electricity savings; (d) provide financing to chiller owners to support the replacement of units; (e) develop 
a
monitoring and evaluation protocol; and (f) disseminate the experience in Venezuela and elsewhere. 
 
Page  4
The CFC Production Phase-out Plan and the Chillers Replacement Program have been developed on the 
basis of (i) Venezuela's obligations under the Montreal Protocol and its Amendments; (ii) the Country 
Program; (iii) the recommendations made by the Executive Committee's Sub-group on the Production 
sector; (iv) data collected from the producing and users enterprises; (v) the independent techno-economic 
audit in the CFC production sector carried out by the MLF; (vi) field visits carried out by an international 
expert in CFC production and the World Bank team; and (vii) discussions with chiller owners and 
vendors. 
 
Institutional, Financial and Disbursement arrangements 
 
PRODUVEN is the sole Venezuelan producer of CFC-11&12 and HCFC-22. The swing plant is located 
in Moron-Coro in the state of Carabobo. The plant was originally constructed in 1975 and started up 
commercial production in 1976, with a major plant overhaul in 1993. Until 2002, PRODUVEN was a 
joint venture owned by PEQUIVEN of Venezuela (50%) and ATOFINA of France (50%). On 6 June 
2002, the Venezuelan company “Grupo Químico ENVIORTECH, C.A. (ENVIORTECH)” purchased all 
of ATOFINA’s interest in PRODUVEN.  Currently, PRODUVEN is 100% Venezuelan capital. 
 
The “Fondo Venezolano de Reconversión Industrial y Tecnológica” (FONDOIN), under the “Ministerio 
de Industrias Ligeras y Comercio” has been assigned as the national focal point or National Ozone Unit 
(NOU) for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol in Venezuela. FONDOIN will locally supervise 
the project’s execution, together with the World Bank as the Implementing Agency. The responsibilities 
of FONDOIN include, inter-alia: (i) preparation of agreements with beneficiary firms under the chillers 
replacement program; (ii) oversight of procurement procedures by beneficiaries; (iii) administration of 
payments to individual consultants and firms for technical support in monitoring the CFC production 
phase-out at PRODUVEN and the chillers subproject preparation and supervision; (iv) management of 
the special account and of disbursements; (v) preparation of progress reports; and (vi) recordkeeping. The 
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009, and the closing date is November 30, 2009. 
 
An on-site Financial Management Assessment has been performed and confirms FONDOIN’s capacity to 
provide the Bank with timely and accurate information regarding resources, expenditures and activities,, 
in accordance with the Bank’s disbursement and financial management policies and requirements. All 
project funds, except for the first component (PRODUVEN’s compensation) that will be disbursed 
directly to the company, will be routed through FONDOIN. Funds for the Chiller Replacement Program 
will be disbursed to enterprises following technical verification and audit by the project management unit 
(PMU) at FONDOIN. Funds for technical assistance will also be channeled through FONDOIN, who will 
provide requisite advances and replenishments to PMU to pay for eligible expenditures. 
 
On the staffing front, FONDOIN will deploy a person, at a level of Chief General Manager or above, 
familiar with Bank financial management and disbursement procedures for overseeing project 
implementation. Disbursements for investment purposes will follow the performance-based framework 
which itself will be subject to independent verification and audit in accordance with established criteria. 
As for the PMU, its financial management framework will be governed by a Financial Management 
Manual (FMM) which details the internal control environment. 
 
Two Grant Agreements (GA) will be signed under this operation: (i) one between the Bank and 
PRODUVEN, for the enterprise compensation of US$16.05 million; and (ii) another between the Bank 
and FONDOIN for the Chillers replacement program and the Technical assistance component, for a total 
amount of US$0.95 million. Disbursements under the Grant Agreements would be contingent upon final 
approval of fund tranches by the MLF Executive Committee and resources deposited in the Bank’s Ozone 
Trust Fund Account. 
 
Page  5
(
i) GA between the Bank and PRODUVEN
:
For the implementation of the GA with PRODUVEN, the 
agreed level of funding would be disbursed in installments in the exact amounts specified in the table 
below, on the basis of the performance-based agreement between the MLF EXCOM and the GOV, i.e. as 
long as the maximum production targets are been met: 
 
CY 
2004 
2005 
2006 
2007 
2008 
Enterprise Compensation 
(PRODUVEN) 
3.20 8.00 1.65 
2.20 
1.00 
Cumulative 
3.20 
11.20  12.85 15.05 16.05 
To verify annual CFC production levels agreed in the table above and plant dismantling / retrofitting or 
destruction, the GOV and PRODUVEN agree to independent technical audits of the CFC production 
plant, to be administered by the World Bank as the implementing agency. If PRODUVEN exceeds the 
maximum production targets, the Bank and the MLF will withhold funding for each tranche of funding 
outlined in the table until the required reduction has been met. In addition, the MLF will reduce the 
subsequent tranche and therefore, total funding for the CFC production closure on the basis of US $1,000 
per ODP tonne of reductions not achieved in any year of this plan. 
 
ii) GA between the Bank and FONDOIN
:
For the implementation of the GA with FONDOIN, the latter 
will open a Special Account (SA) to disburse from this account against eligible expenditures described in 
the GA. Beneficiaries under the chillers replacement program will carry out procurement directly based 
on agreed guidelines and subject to review by FONDOIN and the Bank as specified in Schedule B. An 
annual audit of the Special Account will be performed by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the 
Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which will include an opinion on project 
financial statements, the Special Account and a management letter on the internal control structure. The 
report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the GOV's fiscal year. FONDOIN will submit 
semi-annual reports on the status of subproject implementation and disbursements. A Mid-Term Review 
will be conducted 18 months after effectiveness to assess project performance and, if necessary, adjust 
implementation arrangements.  
 
Project costs 
 
The total cost for the project is estimated at US$17,000,000 (not including the Bank’s fees as the 
implementing agency), broken down as indicated below: 
 
Compensation to PRODUVEN  = US$ 16.05 million 
Technical Assistance to FONDOIN  
= US$ 0.45 million 
Chillers replacement Program 
 
= US$ 0.50 million 
Total Grant Amount    
= US$ 17.0 million 
 
GOV counterpart = US$0.5 million 
Page  6
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Based on the extend of the World Bank Safeguard Policies, the team has agreed to categorize this project 
as B, due to the fact that it triggers the safeguard policies of OP4.01. This indicates that careful 
management and good practices are required for dismantling, removal and disposal of the reaction 
equipment and materials at PRODUVEN, including the corrosive and hazardous antimony chlorofluoride 
catalyst. Although there may be well-recognized good practices available, which can be applied to these 
processes, an Environmental Assessment report has been prepared by PRODUVEN identifying all 
potential environmental impacts and setting forth the appropriate mitigation measures. 
 
[hanneke7]This report describes the following: 
 
a) 
Prelude of CFCs production operation; 
b)  Institutional arrangements suitable to this kind of operation, environmental controls and 
licensing permits, controlling, regulatory framework, and monitoring and enforcement 
agency(ies); 
c) 
A summary of potential negative environmental impacts and their mitigating plan; 
d)  Chemical residual management plan with detailed description of roles of authority and 
responsibility. 
 
4. Contact point 
 
Juan Lopez-Silva 
Senior Environmental Specialist 
Tel: 202 458 5721 
Fax: 202 522 3132 
Email: 
jlopezsilva@worldbank.org
Roberto Aiello 
Environmental Consultant 
Tel: 202 473 3806 
Fax: 202 522 0262 
Email: 
raiello@worldbank.org
wb12009 
C:\Documents and Settings\WB12009\My Documents\PID-8april2005-Final.doc 
21/04/2005 15:53:00
 
