                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26677




                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (PPFI-P6030; PPFI-P6031; IDA-29570)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.5 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                      FOR AN

                 URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                  October 29, 2003




Water and Urban II
Country Department 13
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 2003)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                     CFAF 1,000 = US$ 1.79
                                          US$ 1 = CFAF 557.55

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1   December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
AFD       French Development Agency (Agence française de développement)
AGETIP    Public Works Executing Agency (Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt public)
BNC       National Bureau of Coordination (Bureau National de Coordination)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA      Canadian Development Agency
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
KfW       German Development Agency (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau)
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NIGETIP   Public Works Executing Agency for Niger (Agence Nigérienne de Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour
          l'Emploi)
NPV       Net Present Value
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSR       Project Status Report
TTL       Task Team Leader
TORs      Terms of Reference
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SME       Small and Medium Enterprise


                                 Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
                              Country Director:     Antoinette M. Sayeh, AFC13
                               Sector Manager:      Inger Andersen, AFTU2
                            Task Team Leader:       Christian Diou, AFTU2

                                       REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                   URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                       Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                        1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
     6. Sustainability                                                                    12
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
     8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
     9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
     10. Additional Information                                                           17
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 10
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 25
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                27
     Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report (Translated into English from the original     28
     French version)
Map IBRD 28606

Project ID: P049691                                                      Project Name: URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                         REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Christian Diou                                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 29, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P6030; PPFI-P6031;
                            REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                   IDA-29570
   Country/Department: NIGER                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (88%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%); Other domestic and international trade (2%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring
                            (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/21/1994                                        Effective: 12/17/1997              03/31/1998
   Appraisal:    03/27/1997                                            MTR: 09/30/1999                05/02/2000
    Approval:    05/29/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/NIGETIP
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Antoinette M. Sayeh                            Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Christian Diou                                 Jean-Noel Guillossou
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Diou; Sylvie Debomy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
A Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (QSR) Assessment was produced in November 2001. The
panel rated Bank supervision as marginal.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were to: (a) reduce poverty in urban
areas by creating employment; (b) provide Municipalities with skills necessary to develop and manage their
infrastructure assets; and (c) promote local engineering firms and contractors, labor-based methods and
local materials.

The first and third objectives were, and still are, in line with the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy.
Niger's population is not only one of the poorest in the world but also one of the most fast growing, putting
a tremendous pressure on rare natural resource, infrastructures and services. Regarding the third objective,
the Mid-Term Review stated that the focus should be maintain on small and medium enterprises during the
project life.

The second objective was addressing the urgent urban management issues identified at the time of project
design and well in phase to support efforts deployed by the Government in terms of decentralization policy
and its impact on employment creation. The Project was prepared under the assumption that the
decentralization institutional framework would be in place, based on the 1996 laws. Due to institutional,
political and social problems in Niger, these laws were cancelled as well as local elections. The
decentralization process is yet to be carried out, but the focus on municipalities remained valid.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
Part A: Public Works Program

1. Promotion, identification, appraisal, designing, supervision and evaluation of Municipality initiated
Sub-projects, and provision of Grants for the
financing thereof for the construction and rehabilitation of essential local public, economic and social
infrastructure through Sub-projects including:

    (a) Municipal income generating Sub-projects, including markets, slaughterhouses, parking lots, and
    public transport terminals;
    (b) Municipal non-income generating Sub-projects, including: road paving, street drainage, side-walks,
    and the protection against sand encroachment; primary schools, community meeting rooms, and health
    centers, including the acquisition of furniture for said units.

2. Provision of technical advisory services and training for selected staff in the Borrower's central and local
administration to improve skills:

    (a) in the identification of Sub-projects, including economic analysis and environmental assessments for
    said Sub-projects; and
    (b) in the carrying out of engineering studies and the supervision of works.

3. Strengthening of the local construction industry through:

    (a) promotion and advertisement of the use of local construction materials in urban infrastructure
    works; and



                                                        - 2 -

    (b) provision of training to local consultancy firms and contractors in planning, supervision and
    management of the execution of works.

Part B: Capacity Building

1. Carrying out of studies for:
    (a) the review the Borrower's laws and regulations on central and local administration;
    (b) the modification of the budget structure of, and identification of new budgetary resources for,
    municipalities;
    (c) the restructuring of the Atelier National d'Urbanisme;
    (d) the establishment of standardized methods for urban infrastructure planning;
    (e) the improvement of urban development activities through private sector participation, including the
    carrying out of a pilot-test; and
    (f) the definition of a methodology for urban development; and the provision of technical advisory
    services and training for selected staff of the Borrower and Municipalities.

2. Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of maps for the Communauté Urbaine de
Niamey, and the Commune de Dogondoutchi.

3. Carrying out of studies, provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff of the
Borrower and Municipalities, carrying out of
seminars and public awareness activities in the area of urban environmental management.

4. Provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff of the Borrower, Municipalities and
private consultants in:
    (a) carrying out of ex-post environmental assessments of Sub-projects; and
    (b) the establishment of a guide for environmental assessments of small municipal works, including the
    implementation of said guide.

Part C: Project Management

Provision of technical advisory services to BNC and NIGETIP to strengthen their management information
systems and their capacity to carry out audits of Sub-projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the projects components which were retained throughout the project
period. However, important adjustments were made at mid-term review (May 2000), to take into
consideration important implementation delays.
    (i) The composition and the role of the Project steering committee was redefined and the
    implementation responsibilities were disconnected from the one pertaining to the transport project (the
    same committee was initially in charge of both projects);
    (ii) The geographical focus was limited to eight regional capitals (or 11 communes) instead of the 21
    originally planned and the remaining budget was allocated according to the previous investment
    programs, the financial capacity to maintain the investments and the population;
    (iii) Responsibility for sub-projects identification was transferred from NIGETIP to BNC (National
    Bureau of Coordination) and the communes, and a community participation mechanism was developed
    to identify sub-projects and develop ownership;
    (iv) In-kind contributions from the beneficiaries (communes and population) were developed and
    replaced the initial in-cash contributions. The unavailability of cash had delayed or more often impeded


                                                      - 3 -

     the implementation of infrastructure sub-projects in most of the cities. A monitoring system to
     ascertain the mobilization of the in-kind contributions was put in place by the BNC; and
     (v) The management of income generating equipment financed by the Project was to be turned over to
     private operators.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of the project was satisfactory.

The project is consistent with the main priorities of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by
the Board on May 9, 1994, and focussed on its four priorities which were: (a) addressing long-term human
capital (including poverty alleviation) and natural resource issues; (b) building public and private sector
institutions to promote private sector-based growth; (c) increasing efficiency of public resource
management; and (d) supporting actions to facilitate supply response in the wake of the CFAF devaluation.

The Government and the Bank started in 1990 the preparation of an ambitious urban project, aimed at
reforming the urban sector institutions, in relation with the decentralization laws. However, due to the slow
process of the Government in taking actions, the preparation of this urban project was cancelled in
mid-1994 and replaced by the preparation of a more focussed Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.
The first PPF was cancelled and a second PPF was approved in December 1996 allowing for appraisal in
March 1997.

This Project was built on the success of a previous project (Public Works and Employment Project, Cr.
2209-NIR, approved in 1991, closed in 1997) and the positive impact of the autonomous, non-for-profit
independent agency, NIGETIP. At appraisal time, NIGETIP had executed a portfolio of about CFAF21
billion, with payment of salaries totaling 23 percent of the amount of the works contracts (two million
person-days of employment). The project also benefitted from the knowledge developed through other
similar projects and agencies in Africa, particularly in Senegal and Mauritania where simple but effective
urban management tools were introduced.

The investment component was centered around the implementation of small urban works. Eligible
categories of subprojects were identified at appraisal. The municipalities identified the initial three-year
program of construction, with a mix of income-generating (60% or above) and non income-generating
sub-projects.

At the time of preparation, the team also focussed on the critical role of the International Development
Association (IDA) in assisting the Government and Municipalities in establishing a new framework for
urban infrastructure development and future donor interventions in the sector. Although the Government
adopted a policy to decentralize responsibilities to local governments in February 1996, project activities
related to decentralization were limited to those consistent with the urban focus of the project.

The NIGETIP Manual of Procedures was revised during project preparation to take into account the results
of the technical audit implemented under the previous project, similar experiences in other countries and
lessons learned. The updated Manual was approved during negotiations.

However, the project implementation history highlights the negative impact of two decisions made during
preparation, which could have been avoided. Both were later modified at MTR:
     (i) a counterpart contribution from 5% up to 15% was requested from the local governments. Due to
     the weaknesses in the management of the local government and the state of the municipal finances, this
     requirement was unrealistic. It caused important delays in project implementation



                                                      - 4 -

     (ii) a single steering committee was handling two projects in two different sectors, urban and transport,
     hampering the decision making processes in both projects.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory as it achieved all relevant development objectives:

DO 1: Reduce poverty in urban areas by creating employment - Satisfactory. Based on the results of
sub-projects during Phase 1, and despite low disbursements for the works component at the beginning of
the implementation period, the project disbursed 99.6% of the Credit, creating 1,206,153 person-days of
temporary employments compared to the 740,000 estimated in the SAR. There was no detailed poverty
analysis carried out during preparation (no baseline data). Although the project cannot be assessed with
the current poverty analysis tools, it met its objective in terms of impact on poverty by creating 1,2 million
of person-days of temporary employment (70% above target set at appraisal), at an average monthly wage
of CFAF35,000-40,000 per month. The medium term sustainability of this impact is ensured by the
current workload of Nigetip, ascertain through several financing agreements. A study has been carried out
in October-November 2002 and confirmed the social impacts made by sub-projects: up to 142 person-days
of temporary job were generated per each CFAF1 million invested. Studies carried out to measure the
project's indirect impact on poverty also show that the public facilities and infrastructure (schools, health
facilities, and water supply systems) constructed under the project improved access of the beneficiary
population to these basic services. Street and sidewalk paving improved drainage conditions and public
latrines provided both sanitary convenience and income for communes and private operators. There were
no data available to measure the amount of wages distributed for unskilled labor. However due to the fact
that only local SMEs were hired to perform small works, it is likely that the salaries had a direct impact on
the local population.

DO 2: Provide municipalities with skills to develop and manage their infrastructure - Satisfactory. At the
start of the project, it was thought that the decentralization policy would be in place based on the 1996
laws, but due to institutional, political and social problems in Niger, these laws were cancelled as well as
local elections. The decentralization process is yet to be carried out. However, the project was not aimed
at supporting the decentralization process, but rather reinforce the municipalities. In this regard, the
project performed satisfactorily. It successfully prepared and delivered a set of simple planning and
programming tools aimed at helping the municipalities carry out their tasks. Some specific procedures
have been tested through ad-hoc committees involving the population and municipalities. This huge
improvement is due to an important mobilization of the local teams.

DO 3: Promote local engineering firms and contractors, labor-based methods and local materials -
Satisfactory. The entire list of subprojects approved was implemented in a satisfactory manner by local
contractors and consultants. Promotion of SMEs depends on a stable demand for works which would keep
improving their capacity. Other donors like AFD, KfW, OPEC, are now following up using the same
implementation scheme.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project implementation occurred in two phases. The first phase covered 1997-2000. In this phase all
communes meeting eligibility criteria and financing conditions had access to projects funds. In the second
phase (2001-2003), the number of eligible communes was reduced to 11.




                                                       - 5 -

A - Public Works Program

A1 - Promotion, identification, appraisal, designing, supervision and evaluation of Municipality
initiated sub-projects and construction and rehabilitation of local economic and social infrastructure
works

The project was to finance US$16.9 million worth of small urban works consisting of construction or
rehabilitation of infrastructure and municipal assets, both income generating and non-income generating
activities. Typical municipal income generating activities include markets, slaughterhouses, parking lots,
bus stations and public latrines. Sub-projects to improve physical environment include road paving,
sidewalks and drainage. Social infrastructure includes schools, health centers and youth facilities.

A total of 164 sub-projects, including those implemented with co-financing from the French Development
Agency (Agence Française de Dévelopement - AFD), were completed, of which one third were income
generating activities (54 sub-projects) for a total amount of CFAF11.8 billion. Road improvement and
drainage work dominated, with 25 % of the portfolio (57 sub-projects). Schools, social and health centers
represented another 16%:

1. A first portfolio of 83 sub-projects, including 33 income generating projects (about 40%), was
    identified for phase 1 of the IDA financing and led to the preparation of two management contracts
    with Nigetip. The financing scheme included a financial counterpart from the municipalities. The lack
    of resources at local level created important delays in implementation and led to the cancellation of 10
    sub-projects, as recommended during mid term review.
2. A second portfolio of 71 subprojects was identified under the new arrangements (counterpart in kind)
    for IDA financing for an amount of CFAF4.6 billion. All of them were implemented. It was later
    downsized to 66. Although delays occurred during the implementation of the works (a three-month
    extension was granted) the implementation rate improved dramatically and the entire portfolio of
    works was implemented. In a few cases (mainly cost increase due to the exchange rate), the
    Government agreed to complement the IDA financing.
3. Co-financing from AFD accounted for 15 subprojects, all income generating, for about CFAF2.0
    billion. AFD intended to follow-up with the financing of other income generating subprojects but this
    additional financing has not yet materialized and is not taken into consideration in this report.

Counterpart for the second portfolio only was estimated to (i) CFAF238 million in kind; and (ii) CFAF171
million for maintenance though the municipal budgets. All 11 municipalities involved signed a City
Development Contract allowing for close monitoring of the actual mobilization of the counterpart actions.
At closing date, the municipalities were nearly on track.

IDA disbursements for this component were projected at SDR9.1 million of which SDR8.5 million for
works and SDR0.6 million for design and supervision. Actual disbursements amounted to SDR10.5
million of which SDR9.8 million for works, or 115 percent of projections.

The quality of implementation of this component by Nigetip is good, with some weaknesses directly linked
to the lack of seasoned consultants within the country, especially for work supervision, in spite of training
provided. Although the implementation period was extended by a total of 15 months, Nigetip managed to
keep its fees at seven percent, as planned during preparation. As a result of its good performance, Nigetip
is one of the main implementation tool in Niger and is widely used by other donors. At closing date ,
Nigetip had implemented investment components for nine projects financed by the following donors: IDA
(3), AfDB (2), Germany-KfW (2), France-AFD (1) and Canada-CIDA (1). Three other projects are due to


                                                      - 6 -

start in 2003 under external financing from OPEC (2) and Germany-KfW (1). The confirmed annual
workload ranges from CFAF4.8 in 2003 to 6.4 billion in 2005 (estimated at US$8 to 10 million). An
assessment of the social impact of the sub-projects was carried out in December 2002. It confirmed the
validity of the concept. Beyond the direct impact (employment creation), the project had good results on
consultant firms and SMEs and the population.

A2 - Provision of technical advisory services and training for selected staff in the Borrower's central
and local administration

Satisfactory. The sub-component included technical assistance for sub-project identification and the
carrying out of the engineering studies and the supervision of works. One of the main achievements of the
project has been to establish the connection between the public works component and the capacity building
component. The identification of the public works program was initially made on the basis of request from
the municipalities and verification of their eligibility through a set of criteria by Nigetip. This process did
not initially include a validation through the set of simple planning and programming tools prepared under
the capacity building component.

After mid-term review, the planning and programming exercises were done under BNC supervision using
these tools and a large community participation. The exercise was further carried out in the pilot operation
in Dosso, with the introduction of the urban audits (see also Component B below). Sub-project selection
and counterpart in kind was identified through site visits, analysis of development trends at local level and
local workshops carried out with large participation of local authorities, technical staff, population,
representatives of the private sector, etc. This method helped building a consensus around the portfolio of
work and raising awareness on maintenance and adequate use of the infrastructure provided.

The BNC, Nigetip and Borrower staff benefitted from training sessions centered around their core
competencies. BNC staff was trained in management and computer tools. Central and local administration
officials received training in urban planning tools, data base management and data processing,
environmental audit, urban audits, geographic information system, and procurement.

A3 - Strengthening of the local construction industry

Satisfactory. This sub-component included: promotion and advertisement of the use of local construction
materials and provision of training to local consulting firms and contractors in planning, supervision and
management of works. One of the first impacts of the project was to keep alive a fabric of consultants and
small firms and help them focus on the needs of the beneficiaries. To help these firms deliver, several
training seminars were organized to enhance their technical competence, but also increase the share of labor
cost in the contracts (25% versus 20% planned in the DCA). A 23-module training program was designed
and delivered to small construction enterprises and consulting firms including environmental impact
assessments, urban and municipal audits, technical detailed studies and bidding documents and reinforced
concrete calculations and applications. The use of local construction materials was also developed,
although the ratio of local materials is only 25% versus 35% as planned during project preparation, mainly
because the subproject identified by the communities were not really suitable for this purpose (paved roads
for example). In order to ensure sustainability of these actions, the project also developed relationships,
like design of dedicated training programs, with Nigetech, a local training institute supported by the EU.

B - Capacity Building

This component had a very slow start, mainly due to the fact that the implementation units were initially


                                                       - 7 -

focussing on the implementation of the public works program. However, after mid-term review, the local
teams were able to launch all activities and create a momentum which is a good sign for the sustainability
of these actions. Although institutional development was rated unsatisfactory in the PSR for a long period
of time, its impact at the end of the project is substantial, due to a large mobilization of the Borrower
during the second half of the Project life.

B1 - Carrying out of studies

Satisfactory. The studies were to include: (i) the review of the Borrower's law and regulations on central
and local administration; (ii) the modification of the budget structure and the identification of new
budgetary resources for municipalities; (iii) the restructuring of the Atelier National d'Urbanisme; (iv) the
establishment of standardized methods for urban infrastructure planning; (v) the improvement of urban
development activities through private sector participation; (vi) the definition of a methodology for urban
development.

IDA disbursements for this component were projected at US$ 1.7 million. Actual disbursements were
US$2.5 million. This ambitious institutional building component was aimed at strengthening the urban and
municipal development sector in light of the then recent approval of the decentralization laws and promote
the participation of the private sector when and where possible. This initial program as indicated in the
SAR has been revised during the mid-term review and then updated during supervision missions as the
complete achievement of some of the studies was depending on external elements on which the project had
no control (adoption of the new decentralization laws). However, all essential activities initially identified,
about 30 studies, were carried out. In some cases, the Borrower did perform beyond expectation, in spite
of a very complex environment, including : numerous partners, themes and coordination problems. The
Borrower and the BNC are to be credited for these results.

Some central departments were particularly active in piloting and following-up key studies and that
involvement contributed to the quality of the knowledge generated. The activities carried out under this
sub-component help build the capacities around the following thrusts:

1. Preparation of simple planning tools and urban strategy (see box below on urban management toolkit
     in Niger), based on the realization of urban audits, with a pilot operation in Dosso. The process started
     with the definition of a standard procedure for urban and municipal audits, as the basis for
     identification of needs and investment capacity. Economic, social and environmental analyses and
     community consultations then served as the support for the preparation of the work program to be
     implemented with support from Nigetip. Monitoring of the implementation of the works by Nigetip
     and the counterpart in kind and maintenance operations by the municipalities is intended to provide
     feed-back and adjust the program in accordance to performance. Aerial pictures have been taken and
     urban sketches were made available for 21 cities though the Project. The Government intend to
     develop this experiment to fine tune the procedures and translate them into an urban development
     strategy.




                                                      - 8 -

     Box : An urban management tool kit in Niger
     The set of urban management tools tested under the Project is particularly targeting the medium-size cities. It is partly
     based on tools already tested in other urban projects in West Africa in the last decade (urban audits, municipal audits,
     community participation mechanisms, thematic urban sketches, etc.), completed with a new systemic approach:

     -    Community participation is used for identifying the actual needs, fine tuning the projects, proposing the
          counterparts in kind and arbitrating between projects;
     -    Urban audits provide the physical diagnoses, the status of the equipments and a Urban development scheme aimed
          at ensuring consistencies of the proposals with the development trends of the city;
     -    Municipal audits are carried out to adjust the programs to the resources available at municipal level (incl. external
          aid);
     -    Nigetip implements the annual programs on behalf of the municipalities and the communities. Various controls,
          like economic analysis or environmental assessment, are carried out to ascertain the eligibility and sustainability of
          the subprojects; and
     A monitoring system is developed outside Nigetip and the municipalities to confirm that all commitments are fulfilled.
     All tools were simplified and adapted to the Niger case and interconnected through a system of feedback to allow for a
     better adjustment to the local constraints and close monitoring of the execution of works and counterpart actions from
     the municipalities. The city of Dosso provided a case study for the audit, but other tools were also used in the cities
     targeted by the Project. The next step is to better formalize some of the tools, to prepare a tool kit and disseminate it at
     national level for all medium-size cities.

2. The project introduced at the mid-term review the Municipal Contracts concept as a way to materialize
    the commitments from the municipalities in terms of counterpart in kind and maintenance activities.
    This allowed the BNC to monitor on a regular basis the actual implementation of the commitments.

3. A diagnosis was prepared regarding private sector participation into urban development activities. The
    impact of the study was weak, probably because the approach was not tailored to the local needs.
    However, the main issues are now identified and the studies for a pilot integrated urban operation have
    been carried out to the prefeasibility stage. It appeared that land tenure and housing issues need to be
    addressed before gearing to the feasibility stage.

4. Based on a comprehensive review of the current institutional and legal framework, the project prepared
    a reform of the urban and land management sector. This important work is in line with the
    expectations and is the second contribution from the project (a first contribution was made in 1997
    during project preparation with the Ordonnance de 1997). To implement this kind of reform, the
    Government now needs to launch a wide consultation and enhance coordination at country level.
    However, the preparation of a "Code des Communes", the legal framework for local government could
    not be achieved as the adoption of the decentralization laws was postponed. The Government should
    make the approval of the simple planning tools and the development of the urban strategy (see above)
    the first step of the reform.

5. A detailed diagnosis on the housing policy and the financial mechanism was produced by the project.
    The Government is discussing the proposals and should produce a road map for the improvement of
    this sector.

In addition to the studies per se, the project helps better understand some of the urban development issues
especially through data collection and the preparation of a digital data base on urban data (urban
hydrology, solid waste, etc.). The project also provided to the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization a
data base of municipal human resources and a management software.

B2 - Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of maps for Niamey and
Dogondoutchi

Highly satisfactory. Initially planned for only two cities, the cartography was undertaken under the form of
urban sketches for 21 cities. The production of these sketches, particularly adapted to support the



                                                              - 9 -

community participation mechanisms, and the simple planning tools also introduced, are essential steps
forward in urban management in Niger and in West Africa. To develop the awareness on the urban
development and management issues, the Borrower also prepared and published an atlas of the cities (Atlas
des Villes du Niger) with all 21 sketches and additional information, including census results. The
production of such a document is a first in West Africa. In addition, the project produced an atlas of the
regions (Atlas National du Niger), presenting important data, including population, poverty profiles and
infrastructure at regional level.

B3 - Carrying out of studies and provision of technical advisory services in the area of urban
environment management and
B4 - Provision of technical advisory services and training for ex-post environmental assessments and
creation of a guide for environmental assessments.

Highly satisfactory. The project activities in support to the urban environment and the preparation of a
strategy started in 1998 with the preparation of an urban environment diagnosis. Based on this diagnosis,
12 sectoral studies were undertaken using community participation with a strong involvement of local
private sector (transfer of know how to local firms and NGOs). All finding were included in a draft urban
environment strategy discussed during a national workshop (September 5-7, 2001) and then included in the
PRSP and approved by the Government. Action plans were also prepared and served, inter alia, as the
basis of the preparation of the urban sanitation component of the Water Sector Project (Cr. 3505-NIR,
approved May 2001).

At the same time, the project unit developed tools for assessing the environmental impact of small
infrastructure projects, similar to the one implemented through Nigetip under Component A. A guide for
environmental assessments was drafted in 1997 during project preparation and updated in June 2002 to
benefit from the lessons learned since the beginning of implementation. This guide is now in use and could
serve as guidelines at national level for small projects. Ex-post environmental audits were also carried out
in 2002 on the civil works financed under Component A and showed no negative impact and an increase of
the awareness on urban environment issues during project life, although there is still room for improvement.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR sets a minimum ERR of 12 percent for revenue earning sub-projects and 10 percent for others
where a rate of return can be estimated. During project preparation, simple standardized procedures were
set up to calculate rates of return of sub-projects and staff were trained to use the software designed for
these calculations. At time of appraisal, the need to carry out quality economic and financial evaluation
during sub-project preparation was pointed out to ensure enough revenue potential to cover at least
depreciation costs of infrastructure in case of some income-generating sub-projects contracted out to
private operators.

An evaluation ex-ante and ex-post of IRR of a selected sample of sub-projects was carried out before
project closing. The study concluded that non-income generating sub-projects had a much higher IRR than
expected . For the other sub-projects the IRR was respectively 33% ex ante and 26% ex-post.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A number of income-generating sub-projects, especially markets, did not reach the projected rate of
return. Revenue forecasts to be paid back to municipalities by operators were in all cases too optimistic.
For the income-generating sub-projects which had a positive Net Present Value (NPV), the average IRR
was 19.5% (ex-ante) and 26% (ex-post).




                                                     - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the project is substantial. Although the BNC had to focus on the early
implementation difficulties of the investment component, the project manage to implement most of the
actions planned and adjust the outcome to a very difficult environment.

At the national level:

On the one hand, Nigetip has confirmed its ability to handle large programs of small works with only local
human resources: Nigetip staff itself, consultants, small contractors. Based on these good results and the
need for other donors to have efficient implementation tools, the Agency's workload is increasing.

BNC was able to create a critical mass of knowledge on the urban sector and to mobilize the ministries and
other partners around the main issues: planning, programming, urban environment, financing and
maintenance. Although progresses are still needed, there is now a strong background available for further
actions. To make sure that this momentum will not be lost, the Government decided to keep, on its budget,
a small unit working on the preparation of a formal urban development strategy for Niger and is likely to
receive help from external partners (Cities Alliance) to consolidate all institutional achievements in a
coherent policy, in preparation to further dialogue with the Bank and external partners.

All procedures and methodologies prepared under the project have been tested and most of them are
translated into manuals which will be instrumental in developing homogenous urban management practices.
technical assistance contracts were tailored to enhance transfer of know-how to local consultant firms.

At the local level:

The planning and programming tools introduced by the project are now accepted by the municipalities and
local consultants are familiar with them. Through he City Management Contracts, local governments are
able to better plan for investment and maintenance of municipal infrastructure. However the lack of a
support to local resource mobilization in the project somehow decreases the impact of institutional
development, as the efforts made are not yet linked with an increase of the resources. Therefore, there is a
clear need for the Borrower to follow-up with other actions in the urban sector to take advantage of this
momentum.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was approved on May 29 1997 and effective on March 31, 1998. The beginning of the Project
was characterized with unstable political environment in Niger, as progress on implementation depended on
numerous municipal authorities. The two military coups d'Etat in 1996 and 1999 and the general
economic condition of the country in the following period delayed any activities and froze most of the
initiatives from the stakeholders until presidential and legislative elections on October-November 1999.
Continually changing leadership and a lack of local elections led to an unusual degree of politicization and
reconfiguration of some project components.

The World Bank Africa Region was undertaking a major revision of the AGETIP model implementation
manual in 2000. A new Manual needed to be introduced mid-stream into this project. Although this may
have somehow destabilized NIGETIP at the time, the overall impact of this change is seen as largely
positive by the Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                      - 11 -

The political instability which occurred between 1996 and 1999 and the coup in 1999 impeded the
implementation of decentralization reforms and the creation of communes with legal personality and
financial and management autonomy. New local elections planned in 1999 never took place, and are still to
be decided (currently planned March 2004). Up to now, municipalities are still limbs of the central
administration, managed by delegated civil servants instead of elected mayors. Therefore the objective
aimed at developing the capacity of municipalities could not be achieved to the full extend and studies
outputs could not be as efficiently implemented as expected.

The GNP growth which had reached 10,4% in 1998 fell at -1,2 % and -1,4% in 1999 and 2000. Under
these conditions, the Government and the communes were in poor condition to meet their counterpart
funding obligations. In that context, many aspects of the original institutional design could no longer be
effective. Due to these macroeconomic difficulties and the lack of progress in the decentralization process,
in particular with regard to low financial municipal responsibilities, the project financing plan (which called
on municipalities to contribute counterpart funds) was no longer viable. At the same time, the Government
itself had serious difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funds which led to delays in execution of the first
phase of the project leading to the changes in Project design introduced at mid term review.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project unit (BNC) was initially in charge of two different IDA-financed project in two different
sectors (urban and transport). This initial set-up quickly demonstrated its limits, as BNC could not handle
the two different approaches with a somehow insufficient number of specialized staff. BNC could have
made the diagnosis at an early stage and decisions implemented at mid-term review could have been
decided earlier.

NIGETIP performance during the 1997-1999 period was not up to the Agetip standards. Specific technical
audits were launched on the entire portfolio of works, including other projects. As a result, NIGETIP was
subject to a 12-month period of prior review of all procurement decisions, a comprehensive action plan was
approved, and a new manual of procedures prepared. This program was successfully implemented,
NIGETIP performance increased and the situation came back to normal during 2001.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost as estimated in the SAR was US$28.0 million, comprising US$20.0 financed by IDA
under the Credit. Central Government and municipalities contribution was estimated to US$2.2 million and
taxes to US$2.3 million. US$3.5 million was to be sought from other unspecified donors.

Disbursement under the IDA Credit is US$19.2 million, or 99.56% of the Credit. This performance level is
due to the one-year extension granted to the project but also to opportune decisions taken during the
mid-term review conducted in May 2000 and the increased efficiency of the project management (both
BNC and Nigetip) after the reinforcement of the team by staff and technical assistance.

Donors parallel financing for this operation materialized from the French Development Agency (AFD) for
FCAF1.76 billion or about US$3.0 million. It has to be noted that the implementation of three
donor-financed new operations is due to start in 2003, for a global amount of FCAF12.45 billion or about
US$21 million (OPEC and KfW).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability rating is likely, provided that an enabling environment is developed in Niger for
urban development and further support is provided to municipalities:


                                                      - 12 -

l Future political decentralization in Niger will provide a more stable and adequate environment for
    municipalities. Planning for decentralization has gained momentum under the present Government,
    with implementing legislation passed by the National Assembly in August 2003 and local elections
    currently promised for March 2004. It is expected that decentralization will have a positive impact on
    public service delivery, greater accountability, and local resource mobilization. However, with the
    institutional framework being at a very early stage of implementation, decentralization is seen to have
    only a deferred impact on sustainability. The project was right to support the cities.

l Although the municipal staff was not elected, local capacity for planning and programming has been
    developed and the ability to prepare better investment plans reinforced. This was achieved with simple
    tools, involvement of local consultants and community participation and will be further developed and
    operationalized by the Government through the preparation of an urban development strategy planned
    in 2004.

l The preparation of city development contracts (contrats de ville) to materialize the support received by
    the cities and their commitment for counterpart efforts (in-kind or monetary) and maintenance of assets
    also had a positive impact on the ground. The BNC will keep monitoring the implementation of the
    city development contracts for at least 18 months after the closing date in an effort toward
    sustainability.

l NIGETIP is now a sound organization, as shown by the steady work load for the next two years and
    the development plans already identified. Although there is still room for improvement (archiving,
    communication and management), the agency is a valuable asset for the country at a time were
    development of decentralization will certainly increase the need for delegation of contract management.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All infrastructure and equipment built have been transferred to the beneficiaries and are currently in use.
Municipalities which have prepared a city development contract, have secured maintenance funds in their
budget to allocate to those infrastructure maintenance costs. This was further enhanced though the
monitoring arrangements for the contribution in-kind. Most of income-generating activities have been
turned out to private operators and the selection process for the operators is being standardized. The
project has laid the foundation for coherent urban development intervention at the municipal level.

To ensure continuity with regular operations, the Government decided to finance the BNC for a 18-month
period in order to prepare a sector strategy and launch a dialogue with the Bank and other donors for future
actions in the urban sector, either through PRSCs or investment projects. Additional help was requested
and is likely to be obtained from Cities Alliance to ensure the quality of this work program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory and the project responded to
Government's needs. Although it was simplified, the Project design included too many components and
was too ambitious, especially given the very difficult institutional environment during the 1996-1999
period. Although the lack of counterpart fund was identified as a risk in the PAD, the mitigation measures
included in the project design were not efficient enough to avoid problems during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance was globally satisfactory.



                                                     - 13 -

Up to mid-term review, the performance was only marginally satisfactory, as highlighted in a Quality of
Supervision of Risky Projects (QSR) Assessment dated November 2001. During this first period, the
political environment and the security situation in Niger adversely affected supervision efforts. In addition,
some specific aspects of supervision were not adequately covered by the supervision team, like focus on
development objectives and proactivity. Implementation problems were not immediately tackled and this
resulted in a temporary deterioration of the relationships with the Borrower, the BNC and NIGETIP.

The Project design was improved at mid-term review. The main decisions (local counterpart, focus on
eight municipalities, project management arrangements and NIGETIP/BNC coordination) were based on
the lessons learned during the first phase of implementation and their impact demonstrated they were
justified. A one-year extension was granted to allow for a full implementation of the project and the
supervision team was changed, including the Task Team Leader (TTL).

Bank supervision after mid-term review was satisfactory. The Bank took into consideration the complaint
from the Borrower and changed the supervision arrangements. Good relationships developed again with
the Borrower and the local agencies, with the project ratings improving and implementation performance
completely turned around. The first results were already visible at the end of 2001 and the May 2002
supervision mission confirmed that the Project was back on track. A three-month extension was granted to
cope with the lack of heavy civil works equipment in the country that slightly slowed down implementation
of some works.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory, with Bank staff usually cooperating closely with the
Government, BNC and NIGETIP, the main weakness being poor relationship with the client and lack of
results during the first half of implementation. There was a total of three TTLs for this operation (one
during preparation and beginning of supervision, the second up to mid term review and the third one for the
remaining project life).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The preparation of two infrastructure projects
in the transport and urban sectors was conducted simultaneously under the responsibility of the BNC.
Overall, the BNC operated efficiently during this phase. However, the Government's expectations
regarding the urban project were too high and its forecast for the implementation of the decentralization
policy too optimistic. This led to a lack of focus in project design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation was satisfactory. The lack of counterpart funds was a
major constraint for implementation immediately from the start of the Project. Although the Government
decided to use budgetary funds from bilateral donors to provide the counterpart needed, the measure was
not fully implemented and this bottleneck remained until drastic decisions were made during mid-term
review. The performance of the Government was good after mid term review as confidence arose with the
new supervision team. At the same time, the mobilization of new partners (Direction Générale des Impôts,
Direction de l'Aménagement du Territoire, Inspection Générale de l'Administration Territoriale, Direction
Générale de l'Administration Territoriale, Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation) greatly helped the
implementation of the institutional components and increased the focus on the urban development issues
versus the implementation of the sub-projects.




                                                     - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance was satisfactory for both implementing agencies.

The BNC was already involved in Project design and was in charge of the overall coordination of the
Project and the implementation of institutional components. However it turned out that the technical
supervision and overall management of two projects at the same time were extremely difficult tasks that
could not be performed by one single team. At mid term review, it was decided to split the two project
management responsibilities and to strengthen BNC with new staff and specific technical assistance.
During the second phase of the Project implementation, BNC was very instrumental in the progress made
toward the development objectives and must be credited for building the consensus at central and local level
around the institutional components.

The performance of NIGETIP as an implementing agency for the portfolio of works, somehow marginally
satisfactory at the beginning, greatly improve after corrective measures were identified and implemented
and a new Manual of procedures was approved. After counterpart concerns were removed and more
responsibility transferred to BNC, the agency was better focused on its core business and implementation
of the works went as smoothly as the capacity of the private local SMEs and consultants could allow. As
of today, this agency is a valuable tool at local Government disposal and must keep improving its
performance. Supervision of construction works by NIGETIP and the consultants remains the weakest
point.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Project clearly demonstrates that the institutional environment is key for a Project aimed at supporting
decentralization. Clear commitment from the Government should be a prerequisite for a support in this
field. The difficult political situation in Niger during Project preparation and, in particular, the cancellation
of the decentralization laws and the local elections in 1996, should have been sufficient reasons to design a
more realistic institutional component. The decentralization law finally passed on August 2003, five
months after the project closed. Fortunately in this case, the Project was focusing on strengthening
municipalities and not supporting decentralization. Progressive articulation between the two main
components after mid-term review proved to be very effective and had a very positive impact, even if the
persons involved at local level were not elected.

The Project confirms that it is very difficult to deal with all cities in the country at the same time. First,
their initial number was too large and did not allow the implementation units to focus on realistic targets.
Second, the cities were too different in kind. The Project would have been more effective if tailored for
one kind of city, as municipal management difficulties, and solutions to deal with, are different in the case
of (i) the capital city; (ii) two to three medium size cities; and (iii) several small cities. The decision to
reduce the number of cities to eight at Mid-Term Review was a good one.

The Project confirms that the delegation of contract management and the reliance on the private sector
(consultants and SMEs) are powerful and successful ways for municipalities to implement their
development and infrastructure programs. Except in the capital city, it is unlikely that any mid-size cities in
Niger will succeed in developing in-house capabilities for proper management of investment programs
(technical studies, procurement, supervision of works, etc...). Thus, there is a need for the creation or the
improvement of external partners like NIGETIP with sufficient activity to maintain a critical mass of know



                                                       - 15 -

how. This kind of instrument will be key when decentralization develops in Niger and other West-Africa
countries.

The Project confirms that identification, planning and programming should not be left under the
responsibility of an Agetip Agency, as the rationale for this is out of the core business of the Agency and is
likely to make decision making more difficult and create strain between the Agency and the municipalities
and other beneficiaries. This lesson has already been identified after other Agetip-implemented projects.

Municipalities need a minimum in-house capacity in order to be able to benefit from the simple
management toolkit prepared through the Project (urban audits, municipal audits, community
consultations). After the local elections, currently planned for March/April 2004, it will be key for
municipalities to organize and staff the core services.

The requirement for counterpart funding from the municipalities, as set up during Project preparation (up
to 15%) was not realistic and not at par with the economic and financial situation prevailing in the country.

Adequate training for consultants (studies and supervision) and SMEs is needed to ensure a satisfactory
quality for the works ordered by the municipalities. In addition to the training program implemented by
NIGETIP itself, a strong external partner was needed to ensure a sufficient impact of the sessions. The
development of partnerships between the Government, municipalities, NIGETIP and local training
institutions is needed to ensure sustainability of the transfer of know-how.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower agrees with the IDA conclusions as described in the Implementation Completion Report.
From the Borrower's and Bank's point of view, it is recognized that an important effort was carried out to
implement the mechanisms and appropriate municipal management tools such as: (i) the simplified digital
cartography for all municipalities and the production of a national atlas; (ii) the participative process for
the selection of projects which was further enhanced through the urban and municipal audit approach tested
in Dosso; (iii) the signature of city contracts for the setup of in-kind community participation and for the
infrastructure maintenance program; and (iv) the delegation of the management of market infrastructure to
the private sector.

The institutional decentralization process will be the best tool to sustain actions, initiatives and objectives
developed during project implementation. It will promote the sustainable framework for communities to
take charge of their development and to ensure that assets built during the project are managed in a more
efficient and sustainable way. This process will be set up through the local elections to take place in March
2004.

The Government would like to have a swift follow up to the project in terms of support to the reinforcement
of the municipal capacities to capitalize on the assets. The preparation of a new operation could be taken
up by the project team which is still functional and is providing support to the elaboration of an urban
development strategy.

(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the French Development Agency for comments. We have not received
any feedback from them.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


                                                      - 16 -

10. Additional Information

None.




                              - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
A six-month portofolio of sub-projects and a
procurement plan for their execution will be
submitted to the Government and the
Association.
Percentage of works contracts with budget    1997: 10%; 1998: 5%; 1999 and beyond: 0% Not relevant. After MTR, the entire portfolio
overruns                                                                                was prepared as agreed with the Bank with
                                                                                        community participation and support from
                                                                                        consultants.

Adoption of urban infrastructure development One per year starting 1999                 This objective and the following one were
strategies by secondary cities                                                          only partially met. Due to the political
                                                                                        instability during 1996-1999, decentralization
                                                                                        reforms and creation of autonomous
                                                                                        communes were implemented with delays.
                                                                                        Audit/Planning/Programming tools tested in
                                                                                        one city (Dosso). Two other cities planned in
                                                                                        2004 with Cities Alliance support.




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of revenue-earning sub projects   Above 60 percent                           40 percent during Phase 1
                                                                                        59 percent during Phase two (incl. AFD)
                                                                                        percent.


Ratio of labor costs versus total costs      Above 20 percent                           25.92 percent


Number of projects subject to economic       100 percent                                100 percent
analysis and environment impact assessment


Percentage of works contracts with delays    below 10 percent                           6.9 percent


Ratio of NIGETIP's expenditures versus total less than 5 percent on average during the  seven percent (Phases 1 & 2)
amount of works                              period of project execution and below 7
                                             percent annually
Ratio of counterpart funds actually received 80 percent                                 Not relevant after MTR
on time by NIGETIP versus counterpart
funds estimated for the bi-annual programs
of works


Adoption of urban infrastructure development One per year starting 1999                 This objective and the following one were
strategies by secondary cities                                                          only partially met. Due to the political
                                                                                        instability during 1996-1999, decentralization
                                                                                        reforms and creation of autonomous
                                                                                        communes were implemented with delays.
                                                                                        Audit/Planning/Programming tools tested in
                                                                                        one city (Dosso). Two other cities planned in
                                                                                        2004 with Cities Alliance support.


Extension of the urban data bank to other    5 per year                                 An action plan will be implemented in order to
municipalities than Niamey                                                              ensure dissemination of these planification
                                                                                        tools across all municipalities beyond the
                                                                                        project.


a) Financial and technical audits of the     a) Every six months                        Financial audits - No delay.




                                                                - 18 -

project                                           Technical audits: slight delay for the period
                                                  May 2000 through October 2001. This delay
                                                  was justified by the decrease in project
                                                  activities for the Agency during 2000-2001.
                                                  This situation was clarified during the
                                                  October 2001 Bank's supervision mission
                                                  following a regrouping of project activities.


b) Disbursement lag    b) Below 10 percent        Not met during Phase 1. Normal
                                                  implementation resumed after MTR.


1End of project




                                        - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Civil works                                              16.90           16.17               96
2. Equipment                                                 0.20             0.54             270
3. Institutional building                                    4.30             4.67             109
4. Training and seminars                                     0.40             0.57             143
5. Incremental operating costs                               0.40             0.63             158
6. Project Preparation Fund (PPF)                            1.50             1.13              75

Total Baseline Cost                                         23.70           23.71
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.80             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         2.50             0.00
                         Total Project Costs                28.00           23.71
                   Total Financing Required                 28.00           23.71


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            17.50         0.00          3.00         20.50
                                  (0.00)          (13.10)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (13.10)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.10         0.10          0.00          0.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.10)      (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.20)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         4.50          0.40          4.90
Institutional building            (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.30)          (0.00)       (4.30)
4. Training and seminars           0.00             0.00         0.40          0.00          0.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.40)          (0.00)       (0.40)
5. Operating costs                 0.00             0.00         0.50          0.00          0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
6. Project Preparation             0.00             0.00         1.50          0.00          1.50
Facility (PPF)                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.50)          (0.00)       (1.50)
   Total                           0.00            17.60         7.00          3.40         28.00
                                  (0.00)          (13.20)      (6.80)          (0.00)       (20.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           1.20            14.97        0.00           0.00        16.17
                                  (0.97)          (12.07)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (13.04)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         0.54           0.00         0.54
                                  (0.00)          (0.34)       (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.44)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         4.67           0.00         4.67

                                                - 20 -

   Institutional building                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.77)            (0.00)           (3.77)
   4. Training and seminars                0.00               0.00              0.57             0.00              0.57
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.46)            (0.00)           (0.46)
   5. Operating costs                      0.00               0.00              0.63             0.00              0.63
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.53)            (0.00)           (0.53)
   6. Project Preparation                  0.00               0.00              1.13             0.00              1.13
   Facility (PPF)                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.95)            (0.00)           (0.95)
       Total                               1.20              14.97              7.54             0.00             23.71
                                          (0.97)            (12.41)            (5.81)            (0.00)           (19.19)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Civil works                11.50         2.20         0.00       13.04         0.21       0.00       113.4     9.5       0.0
2. Equipment                   0.20         0.00         0.00        0.44         0.00       0.00       220.0     0.0       0.0
3. Institutional building
A. NIGETIP's fees              0.80         0.00         0.00        0.96         0.00       0.00       120.0     0.0       0.0
B. Component managed by        1.80         0.00         0.00        1.16         0.00       3.00       64.4      0.0       0.0
NIGETIP
C. Component managed by        1.70         0.00         0.00        1.64         0.00       0.00       96.5      0.0       0.0
Bureau of Coordination
4. Training and Seminars       0.40         0.00         0.00        0.46         0.00       0.00       115.0     0.0       0.0
5. Incremental Operating       0.50         2.30         3.50        0.53         0.22       0.00       106.0     9.6       0.0
Costs
6. PPF                         1.50         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
7. Unallocated                 1.60         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Cost of Project         20.00         4.50         3.50       18.24         0.43       3.00       91.2      9.6      85.7

   Note : Government contribution does not include counterpart in-kind provided by the municipalities, estimated to
   US$0.5 million.




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An ex-post economic and financial analysis on subprojects implemented under the credit was carried out by
a local consultant in January 2003. The result generally confirmed the validity of the ex-ante analysis for
most investments (IRR from 18 to 38%), especially for road improvements.

Results were good for some revenue earning subprojects, like bus stations slaughterhouses (IRR 20%),
public latrines (IRR 20%) or leisure park (IRR 41%). However, the NPV was negative for the markets.
This demonstrates that the expectations regarding the impact of this kind of projects (markets) were too
high.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/21/1996                 7    Task Team Leader and Transport
                                              Economist (1); Economist (1);
                                              Transport Economist (1); Urban
                                              Engineer (1); Environment
                                              Specialist (1); Road Specialist
                                              (1); Research Assistant (1)
              12/06/1996                 3    Task Team Leader and Transport
                                              Economist (1); Urban Economist
                                              Economist (1); Urban Specialist
                                              (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/23/1997                 1    Task Team Leader (1)


 Supervision

              07/16/1997                 2    Senior Transport Economist (1);       S               S
                                              Task Assistant (1)
              02/18/1998                 4    Senior Transport Economist (1);       U               U
                                              Urban Planner (1); Community
                                              Participation (1); Financial
                                              Analyst (1)
              10/17/1998                 4    Senior Transport Economist (1);       U               U
                                              Urban Planner (1); Urban
                                              Environment Specialist (1);
                                              Research Assistant (1)
              04/07/1999                 8    Transport Economist (1);              S               S
                                              Economist (1); Urban Planner
                                              (1); Decentralization Specialist
                                              (1); Sector Manager (1);
                                              Environment Specialist (1); NGO
                                              Coordinator (1); Architect (1)
              02/19/2000                 6    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               U
              (mid-term review)               Economist (1); Financial Analyst
                                              (1); Staff Assistant (1); Senior
                                              Economist; Program Assistant;
                                              Consultants (4); Disbursement
                                              Officer (1)
              10/30/2001                 3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                              Operations Officer (1);
                                              Procurement Analyst (1)
              02/07/2002                 2    Urban Specialist (1); Research        S               S
                                              Assistant (1)
              05/02/2002                 5    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                              Operations Officer (1);



                                               - 23 -

                                            Procurement Specialist (1);
                                            Urban Specialist Consultant (1),
                                            Environment Specialist
                                            Consultant (1)
               11/28/2002              5    Task Team Leader (1);                S    S
                                            Operations Officer (1);
                                            Procurement Analyst (1); Urban
                                            Specialist consultant (1);
                                            Institutional Specialist
                                            Consultant (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              9.2                             28.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   6.7                             19.9
  Supervision                          173.6                            255.8
  ICR                                     4.0                             16.0
  Total                                193.5                            320.2




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Mission Aide-memoire (from October 1996 to November 2002)
Monthly Implementation Progress Reports - Prepared by BNC
Quarterly Implementation Reports - Nigetip
Financial Audit Reports
Technical Audit Reports
Assessment of Social Impact - December 2002
Assessment of Economic and Financial Impact - January 2003
Final Completion Report - Prepared by NIGETIP - June 2003
Studies (see Annex 6 of the November 2002 Aide-Memoire)




                                               - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report

(Translated into English from the original French version)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT (PRI)
NATIONAL BUREAU OF COORDINATION
POB: 12 989
TEL.: 73 54 38
FAX: 73 21 91
E-mail: pri@intnet.ne




           URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT

                          IDA CREDIT No. 2957-NIR (JUNE 20, 1997)




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                     (Final Report)




                                                                                        December 2002
                                                                                        Update: June 2003



                                                             - 28 -

INTRODUCTION

      The Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (PRIU) resulted from Credit Agreement No. 2957
NIR, signed by IDA and the Government of Niger on June 20, 1997. The project, amounting to SDR 14.5
million, the equivalent of US$20 million or CFAF 11.1 billion, came into effect on March 31, 1998. The
closing date, initially set at December 31, 2001, was successively extended to December 31, 2002 and
March 31, 2003. Project implementation occurred in two phases. In the first phase, which covered the
period 1997-2000, all Niger communes meeting eligibility criteria and financing conditions had access to
project funds.

      After the mid-term review (May 2-19, 2000), Niger, in agreement with the World Bank, decided to
make certain adjustments aimed at refocusing the project. Consequently, activities in the second phase
were limited to the eight regional capitals, namely a total of eleven communes, including the three
communes constituting the Niamey Urban Community. The remaining budget was distributed in view of
investment already carried out in the communes, their financial capacity to maintain it, and their
population. The new focus also entailed the following equally significant measures:

1.    Responsibility for sub-project identification no longer rested with NIGETIP but with the National
      Bureau of Coordination (NBC) and the communes, which had access to a team of experts (a local
      consultant supported by foreign expertise), with the participation of all beneficiaries (the
      municipalities, the population, civil society and NGOs).

2.    Counterpart fund contributions of the contracting authorities and the population were no longer made
      in cash but in kind. They consisted of measures (releasing necessary land, providing equipment for
      schoolrooms constructed, planting trees etc.) complementary to the activities funded under the
      project. This decision was prompted by the insufficiency of the counterpart funds mobilized in cash.
      Moreover, the communes, supported by NBC, formulate and implement a priority maintenance
      program covering two years (2002-03).

3.    The management of income-generating infrastructure was turned over to private operators as a rule.

4.    As regards project management, the Steering Committee's composition and method of operation were
      modified in view of the current implementation of two projects, namely urban- and
      transport-infrastructure rehabilitation, and NBC's role was enhanced. In addition to administrative
      coordination, it was entrusted with the task of providing technical assistance to the other
      implementing agencies, and an action plan was drafted with a view to improving NIGETIP's
      performance.

      This report assesses project execution and discusses the performance of the various stakeholders in
this regard, the impact of the project and the lessons learned. In addition to interviews with the main
agencies, it is based on the following documents:
- Staff Appraisal Report
- Credit Agreement
- Semi-annual progress reports
- Mid-term evaluation report
- Monthly progress notes on the project components
- Various aide-mémoire of IDA supervision missions
- Poverty impact assessments



                                                    - 29 -

- NIGETIP's quarterly activity reports
- Technical audit reports on NIGETIP works
- Ex-post environmental audit report on NIGETIP works carried out in the PRIU's first phase
- Niger's national strategy for urban environment management
- Audits of project and NIGETIP accounts.

I.     Project Execution:

Restatement of project objectives and description

       The PRIU targets three development objectives (see Staff Appraisal Report, Report No.
16460-NIR, May 6, 1997):
(i)    reducing poverty in urban areas by creating employment;
(ii)   providing municipalities with skills to develop and manage their infrastructure; and
(iii)  promoting local engineering firms and contractors, labor-intensive methods and local materials.

       The project included three components:
(i)    a civil works program;
(ii)   institutional capacity-building; and
(iii)  project execution management.

First component: Civil engineering works program

       This component is comprised three sub-components (see Credit Agreement, Annex 2), broken down
as follows:

(a)    Construction and rehabilitation of local economic and social infrastructure works.
       These small urban works fall into two categories: income-generating sub-projects such as markets,
       parking lots, slaughterhouses and road stations; and non income-generating sub-projects aimed at
       environmental and social-sector improvement, such as gutters and sidewalks, schools, health centers,
       community halls and the necessary furniture, road paving, prevention of sanding up, etc.

(b)    Provision of consulting and training services to key central- and local-administration staff with a
       view to further capacity-building.
       These services were related to civil works sub-projects (identification, environmental assessments,
       economic analyses, technical studies and works supervision).

(c)    Strengthening the local construction industry by:
       (i)    promoting the use of local construction materials; and
       (ii)   providing training to local consulting firms and enterprises in the areas of planning,
              supervision and works execution management.

Second component: Capacity-building

       This component consisted mainly of studies and infrastructure aimed at methodological tool
consolidation and action capacity-building in the structures drawing benefit from project activities. It
comprised the following stated sub-components:




                                                    - 30 -

(a)   Conduct of studies in the following areas:
      (i)     codification of legislation on local government;
      (ii)    review of municipal budget nomenclatures and identification of new municipal budget
              resources;
      (iii)   reorganization of national urban planning services;
      (iv)    introduction of simplified tools to plan urban infrastructure development;
      (v)     a feasibility study on a pilot operation of integrated urban development; and
      (vi)    definition of a methodological framework for the formulation, by the communes, of an urban
              development strategy.

(b)   Provision of consulting services for a basic cartography of the Niamey Urban Community and the
      Dogondoutchi commune.

(c)   Provision of consulting and training services to key central- and local-administration staff in the area
      of the environmental evaluation of small municipal works.

(d)   Organization of seminars and sensitization of beneficiaries to urban environment management.

Third component: Project execution management

      Action under this component concerns mainly NBC and NIGETIP and addresses the issues of
improving NIGETIP's computer system, accounts auditing, operation, equipment and short-term assistance
missions.

Project financing

      In addition to the contributions of IDA and other donors, the communes and the State contribute to
project funding.    The share of the communes depends on their operating revenues and the type of
sub-project financed. The State contributes counterpart funds. Accordingly, total project cost, which
amounts to US$28 million, is funded with credit No. 2957 NIR (US$20 million), grants expected from
various donors (US$3.5 million), and expected municipal contributions and State counterpart funds
(amounting jointly to US$4.5 million).

A. Development goals and project objectives attained

      PRIU objectives are entirely consistent with the Government's poverty reduction strategy, in
particular its main components of income generation, decentralization and institutional capacity-building in
the communes and the private sector. Outcomes achieved under each objective are as follows:

(i)   Poverty reduction by means of job creation in urban areas:

              There was no systematic monitoring to assess total employment generated for the poor by
      project activities in urban areas.
              A relevant indicator was compiled under the study on the impact of project activities on
      poverty, conducted in March 2000 and updated in November 2002. The 2002 update shows that the
      project generated temporary employment of 1,206,153 person-days, compared with 730,000
      person-days estimated in the project appraisal document. The average duration of the jobs created
      was 3.5 months.




                                                      - 31 -

             Similarly, the ex-post environmental audit of NIGETIP works executed in the PRIU's first
      phase, conducted in May 2002, states that certain sub-projects generated up to 142 person-days of
      employment per CFAF 1 million invested. Although no precise calculation of the actual number of
      jobs generated is available, the foregoing estimations indicate that the PRIU attained its target
      regarding employment generation in the urban environment.

(ii)  Capacity-building in the municipalities on themes necessary for developing and managing their
      infrastructure:

             Target communes at project completion were the same as in 1996. They are administered by
      Government-appointed officials.

             The new decentralization plan provides for complete communalization by establishing 265
      communes.      Project-funded activities permitted to draw up legislation on the decentralization
      process, establish a budget mechanism for the future communes, ensure better monitoring of the
      execution of the budget of the various local authorities, and put in place urban-planning and
      urban-development tools and strategies. By the same token, operations carried out under the project
      permitted to identify urban development issues, in particular as regards their environmental aspects.
      PRIU activities paved the way to the effective implementation of decentralization, an irrevocable key
      Government objective whose attainment seems imminent, and their positive effects constitute assets
      that should be exploited.

(iii) Promoting local engineering firms and contractors, labor-based methods and local materials:

             Contracts awarded under the PRIU for engineering studies, construction and supervision have
      prompted the establishment of numerous local engineering firms and enterprises. During project
      implementation, NIGETIP awarded approximately 322 contracts:                   68 for studies, 168 for
      construction and 91 for supervision. The number of engineering firms or enterprises that were
      awarded at least one contract of these types was, respectively, 34, 70 and 36. Furthermore,
      numerous training activities aimed at local engineering firms and contractors were organized. The
      performance of local engineering firms and enterprises has been assessed in the technical audits of
      the works executed by NIGETIP. The latest report, dated July 2002 and covering financial years
      2000 and 2001, concludes, inter alia, that sub-project design has clearly improved, cost estimates
      are more accurate, and engineering firms have acquired pertinent design skills.

             As regards the promotion of labor-based methods, the ratio of labor cost to total cost,
      constantly monitored during project implementation, amounted to 25 percent, excluding the labor
      input into the materials production (see the audit report of 2000-01).

             As regards the promotion of local construction materials use, in addition to the conduct of
      studies demonstrating the potential of earth-, stone- and rock-based materials and the economic and
      financial feasibility of projects for a small mobile building-site brick-making unit and a tile-making
      unit, local materials accounted for 25 percent of the cost of NIGETIP works.

      In sum, the objective of promoting local engineering firms and contractors, labor-based methods and
local materials was achieved to a relative degree in the project phase reviewed, although some training and
skills enhancement needs were not met, some investment plans necessitated by the project did not
materialize, and the sustainability of achievements after the project is still uncertain.




                                                    - 32 -

B. Tangible outcomes by component and sub-component

1.   Civil engineering works program component

            Sub-component: Construction and rehabilitation of local economic and social infrastructure
     works

     - Three sub-project databases were set up (two in the first phase and one in the second). One
        hundred and forty-three sub-projects, seventy-two in the first phase and seventy-one in the
        second, were effectively carried out.

     - Sub-projects carried out may be itemized as follows:              15 markets, 5 road stations, 2
        slaughterhouses, 4 public gardens, 3 youth centers, 11 public latrines, 28 paved roads, 12 gutters,
        35 schoolrooms, 18 new or rehabilitated wells, 1 maternity hospital, 2 health centers, asphalting
        or opening up of 17 streets, and 4 offices.

     - Various additional sub-projects carried out involved boundary-wall construction, gully and
        temporary stream (kori) treatment, sport infrastructure projects and other facilities such as the
        Niamey cafeteria and the Téra center of tourism. Of the 22 communes of Niger today, 21
        benefited from project activities. Only the rural commune of Matankari did not or could not
        carry out any sub-project.

(ii) Capacity-building component

            The objective of this component was to support the development of the institutional
     framework during project implementation. The Credit Agreement provided for capacity-building
     studies. Most training needs were identified and beneficiaries defined in the course of the project.

            Accordingly, NBC and NIGETIP staff was trained in the use of computer and management
     tools. Central and local administration officials received training in a variety of areas, such as urban
     planning reform, database management, environmental audits, urban development audits, data
     processing, and geographic information systems.           A 23-module training program for local
     engineering-firm and SME staff was designed in 1999 (see the study by the consulting firm KMC on
     the drafting of a plan to provide training and technical support to construction engineering firms) and
     updated in later stages. The program was launched in 2000 and addressed the following themes:
     urban and municipal audits, environmental impact assessments, summary and detailed preliminary
     design (APS/APD) studies, and reinforced concrete calculations and applications.

            Studies were aimed at providing better knowledge of the urban and municipal environment,
     developing methodological tools, determining the impact of the project, especially on the environment
     and on poverty, controlling the technical quality of works funded under the project, monitoring
     commune finances, and proposing solutions to commune- and settlement-financing problems. About
     thirty studies were carried out in total, including most of the studies provided for in the Credit
     Agreement. Under the project, most of the partner administrative services were equipped with
     vehicles, computer hardware and software. The findings of these studies are expected to be exploited
     as were the results of the study on establishing Niamey city addresses, which is being implemented
     with funding from the International Association of French-Speaking Mayors (AIMF). Furthermore,
     the Government, with project support, formulated and officially adopted an urban environment
     strategy.


                                                   - 33 -

C. Disbursements

       The overall disbursement rate of the project as at March 31, 2003 was ...             percent.  This
performance level was due not only to the one-year extension of the project but also, mainly, to opportune
decisions taken at the time of the mid-term review in May 2000, involving in particular the elimination of
the counterpart fund contribution in cash by the communes and the reassignment of responsibility for
sub-project identification to the Steering Committee through NBC.

       As regards the breakdown of project outlays between operational and investment costs, the former
represent only 7.55 percent of total project expenditure. The PRIU is therefore essentially an investment
project. By Niger Government's criteria of financial performance for projects, namely operational costs
under 30 percent and a high fund-use rate, the above figures amply establish the PRIU's strong
performance.

II.    Performance analysis

Restatement of project performance indicators

       The following are some of the performance indicators that have been defined:
- over 60 percent of the sub-projects should be income-generating;
- the ratio of labor to total cost should exceed 20 percent;
- an environmental impact assessment should be conducted for 100 percent of sub-projects;
- local materials should account for at least 35 percent of contract amounts;
- as of 2000, counterpart funds effectively received by NIGETIP should equal 80 percent;
- financial and technical audits of the project should be conducted every six months.

The results will be analyzed below.

A.     The national context

       During the period 1998-2002, the following facts characterized the macroeconomic situation of the
country:

       An economic growth rate that, although positive, was slower than the growth rate of the population
(3.4 percent), persisting imbalances in the external accounts and the State budget, and the mounting burden
of the external debt, in particular debt-servicing claims on budget resources, prompted in September 1999 a
suspension of disbursements on all IDA projects in Niger on grounds of delinquency on debt servicing.
Although total commune budget revenue increased by 15 percent between 1998 and 2000, rising from
CFAF 3,623,869,000 to CFAF 4,097,213,000, the revenue of more than half of the communes declined
(the number of communes with receipts over CFAF 500 million dropped from three in 1995 to one in
2000). The ensuing failure to contribute counterpart funds led to the elimination of this obligation in the
second phase and its replacement by counterpart contributions in kind. At the political level, after
disruptions of democratic procedures in 1996 and 1999, Niger acquired republican institutions, and
democratic elections were held at the end of 1999.

       The circumstances prevailing since that time have permitted a resumption of relations with all
international organizations and other donors. As a result, after preparation of an interim poverty reduction



                                                     - 34 -

strategy paper, Niger qualified for assistance under the HIPC initiative.

       As regards decentralization, the relevant 1996 legislation was amended and a new system, aimed at
integral communalization, was implemented in the period under review. Local elections, after which the
new communes and their elected bodies will be put in place, are expected to complete this process.

B.     Performance of the Administration at national and commune levels

       At the national level, after meeting credit conditions, the Administration maintained the previous
project coordination team, and the same Steering Committee, which had proved efficient and helped greatly
to implement necessary measures and adjustments. Tax exemptions on contracts funded under the credit
allowed for their satisfactory conclusion. Lastly, the counterpart funds for the project were paid in the
appropriate financial years, although an amount of CFAF 17,500,000 for 2002 was still outstanding as at
March 31, 2003.

       At commune level, the Administration failed to make regular payments of counterpart funds for
sub-projects. Project implementation was thereby impeded and, in the first phase, investment was largely
concentrated in the Niamey Urban Community and its communes. On the other hand, the communes
progressively execute their counterpart contributions in kind and implement the works maintenance
programs stipulated in town contacts concluded since the mid-term review.

C.     Performance of the implementing agencies (NBC and NIGETIP)

       At institutional level, a clear definition of the tasks of the bodies in charge (Steering Committee and
NBC) and the partner agencies (responsible for executing specific sub-components and providing services)
allowed the project to proceed satisfactorily. Supervision at periodic intervals and the mid-term review
prompted appropriate rearrangements which contributed to effective project implementation. Separate
planning and implementation responsibilities in the second phase helped clarify the roles of the Agency
and NBC. Nevertheless, the latest audit report identifies some readjustments that NIGETIP should
introduce to improve its performance, the quality of the works, its transparency and its relation as
construction manager with the communes.

-      NBC

       NBC regularly drew up semi-annual progress reports.              Its accounts were also audited on a
semi-annual basis and certified without reservation. There has been no suspension of disbursements on
grounds of ineligible costs or expenditure not cleared with the Bank (under the "no objection" procedure).
All partners agree that NBC was in permanent contact with all stakeholders and systematically sent them
all relevant communications. It ensured constant monitoring of project activities implemented by the
agencies. In particular, it organized periodic field missions to monitor town contracts closely and
reported regularly to the oversight authorities and IDA by means of summary monthly bulletins on the
progress of project components. To the same end, technical audit reports on the works have been
regularly produced since October 2001 under NBC supervision.

-      NIGETIP

       As part of project execution, NIGETIP was to ensure that certain indicator levels were met. The
respective performance levels and objectives were as follows:




                                                       - 35 -

-     Fifty-nine percent of sub-projects were income-generating compared with a minimum objective of
      sixty percent.

-     Forty-one percent of sub-projects were non-income-generating compared with a maximum objective
      of forty percent.

      AFD-funded income-generating equipment has been taken into consideration in the above breakdown
      into income-generating and non-income-generating sub-projects.

-     The ratio of labor to total cost was 25 percent compared with an objective of 20 percent.

-     Local materials used accounted for 25 percent of contract amounts compared with a minimum
      objective of 35 percent. This result was mainly due to opting in the second phase for sub-projects
      (asphalt pavements) necessitating a low percentage of local materials.

-     The average term of payment to enterprises was 4.8 days compared with an objective of ten days.
      Beginning in June 2002, this period became longer because of direct payment delays.

      As regards meeting contractual specifications, weak points in NIGETIP's performance were: poor
quality of some works as a result of inadequate technical control; partial implementation of engineering
firm and construction enterprise staff training; and use of certain bid-evaluation criteria (preference given
to the lowest bidder). Recommended corrective measures include: training of engineering firm staff to
avoid design faults identified; project design improvement through implementation of a summary and
detailed preliminary design (APS/APD) phase prior to drawing up the bidding documents, which include
the evaluation criteria; training of construction workers (formsetters, steel fixers and brick-layers); training
of commune officials and technical personnel in contracting authority tasks and infrastructure maintenance;
and, for each sub-project, preparation by engineering firms of an "owner's handbook" given to the
beneficiary at the time of conditional takeover. NIGETIP's effectiveness in implementing the works
assigned to it is also part of its performance.      Although, to make up for the inadequacy of some
contractors, NIGETIP placed certain works "under supervision", recourse to this Procedures Manual
provision did not ensure timely completion of all sub-projects concerned.

D.    Performance of engineering firms, SMEs and other partners

      The performance of engineering firms and SMEs was mainly assessed in the technical audits of
NIGETIP works. On the whole these operators met specifications, despite persisting flaws in studies,
technical control and construction. These flaws were regularly pointed out in the audit reports and included
missed execution deadlines or inadequate professionalism and insufficient modernization of the enterprises.

E.    Performance of the Bank

      World Bank performance should be assessed on the basis of the following types of action:
supervision missions, no objection documents, direct payments and Debt Reduction Facility (DRF) re
imbursements. Of the nine supervision missions scheduled, the Bank conducted seven since the project
came into effect. In this connection, mention must be made of the long period (16 months) that elapsed
between the mid-term review (May 2000) and the first subsequent mission (October 2001). At times
(March 1999 to September 2001), the delay in receiving no objection documents impeded the smooth
implementation of the project. On the other hand, DRF reimbursements ensured regular replenishment of
project accounts until May 2002. The Bank's consent to waive the contribution of counterpart funds in


                                                    - 36 -

cash and replace it by a contribution in kind and the extension of the closing date contributed to sound
project execution. However, project officer turnover (there were three changes in the period 1997-2002)
had an adverse effect on project implementation.



III. Project impact

A.     Impact on poverty and unemployment

       The two studies addressing the project's impact on poverty indicate that it generated employment and
household income. The sanitary, school and water supply infrastructure constructed under the project
enhanced the access of the beneficiary population sections to these key basic services.

       Street and sidewalk paving works now ensure runoff drainage and strongly contribute to wastewater
disposal in the beneficiary towns and settlements.         Public latrines upgraded hygienic conditions and
generated substantial income for the communes and the private operators. It is pertinent to repeat here that
the project generated about 1,200,000 person-days of employment at an average monthly wage of CFAF
35,000-40,000.

B.     Environmental impact

       The project's environmental impact has been measured in the ex-post environmental audit report on
NIGETIP works carried out in the PRIU's first phase. Audit report conclusions make reference to several
instances of positive effects of the project on human environment (see "Impact on poverty and
unemployment") and to negative effects, largely limited to the biophysical environment.

       The negative effects, resulting from failure to conduct environmental evaluations for first phase
sub-projects, consisted mainly of farmland losses, land-surface disruptions in the borrow areas, tree felling,
mosquito infestation in undrained flood retention basins, and population displacements when streets flood
because of poor drainage. In the second phase, the terms of reference of sub-project studies stipulate
environmental impact evaluations. Furthermore, the 1997 guide for impact evaluation has been revised
and made more user-friendly. On the other hand, the above report was completed shortly before the end
of the project and consequently, regrettably, no funds were available any longer to implement the action
plan it proposed, in particular as regards capacity-building, measures to attenuate negative effects, and
environmental monitoring.

C.     Other types of impact (on private sector capacities and municipal development)

       The training activities carried out strengthened the technical capacities of local engineering firms and
construction enterprises.      Moreover, study, construction, supervision, training and supply- and
equipment-procurement contracts proved to be a significant source of income for the private sector. Project
activities helped to build the financial capacities of the private sector, in particular in the construction, civil
engineering and general trade industries.

       Municipal development was fostered because the income-generating infrastructure facilities funded
under the project constitute significant sources of municipal income, in addition to the development of
methodological tools.




                                                      - 37 -

IV. Conclusions

      After a relatively long preparatory period (which began in the early 1990s), the Credit Agreement
signed on June 20, 1997 resulted in the PRIU. The project started amidst considerable economic and
financial difficulties at the national and commune level. It was, however, subsequently helped by the
restoration of institutional stability in the country and the resumption of full cooperation with the
development partners.

A.    Sustainability of project achievements and investment

      The success of the project, in particular during the second phase, was made possible by: (i)
strengthening NBC and ensuring the stability of its team; (ii) ownership and efficient implementation of
tools and procedures by NIGETIP; and (iii) the return of a highly experienced project officer thoroughly
familiar with urbanization problems in Niger. All these factors contributed to the positive end result. By
the same token, the following good practices were implemented:

1.    The mobilization of counterpart funds in kind, the establishment of a sub-project identification
      committee and the conclusion of contracts between communes and the State (contrats de ville) led to
      new initiatives at commune level.

2.    An impressive number of high quality studies were carried out in areas little known or wholly
      unexplored. Examples: theme studies culminating in the formulation of a national strategy for
      urban environment management; the urban, organizational and financial audits of the Dosso
      commune, etc. The valuable stock of relevant documentation must now be safeguarded by means of
      considerable archiving efforts (using CD-ROMs) and exploited by preparing a training program for
      decentralized agency staff.

3.    The project had a positive impact on local enterprises through:
      (i)    Training which strengthened engineering firm capacities in the areas of bid preparation,
             construction site organization, and execution monitoring. In future, the competitive approach
             should focus on the technical quality of services, thereby encouraging professionalism in a
             number of the engineering firms by motivating them to equip themselves appropriately and
             possess competent human resources on a more permanent basis.
       (ii)  Opening public procurement to competition by awarding civil works contracts on the basis of
             systematic calls for tenders has encouraged the establishment of many firms and provided
             them with a certain volume of activity, which they carried out by using local materials and
             implementing high manpower-intensity methods (HIMO). However, modernization was not
             achieved. As in the case of engineering firms, emphasis should be placed on the technical
             quality of bids, keeping at the same time prices as competitive as possible. To ensure
             sustainability, either the Road Maintenance Equipment Company (SLM) should be made
             operational or an association-type structure should be promoted in the framework of
             SYNAPMEN to rent equipment (compactors, moulds, concrete vibrators, concrete mixers
             etc.).

4.    The repetitive nature of the approach and the great number of operators involved make it a learning
      process that should be exploited. The training received by the members of these structures should
      enable the national and commune administration to draw advantage from the study outcomes by
      compiling useful theme files in the area of urban center development and management.



                                                    - 38 -

B.     Lessons learned

       Despite progress achieved in several areas, Niger ranks low on the human development index (HDI)
scale. It has just completed its first urban development project, while other countries in the sub-region are
implementing their third or fourth. Given that poverty reduction is the key national option, this significant
gap must be closed. Despite very substantial attainments under the PRIU and other projects, the country
still has important needs in infrastructure rehabilitation and construction. In view of the forthcoming
decentralization, additional resources must be mobilized with help from the international community. IDA
and the other donors will thus be enabled to support an effective urban development program to be
implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

1.     Preliminary identification of sub-projects, allowing some of them to be defined before the Credit
       Agreement or convention is signed.

2.     Concentration of activities by commune to avoid fund dispersion and ensure progressive
       establishment of urban functions.

3.     Continued capacity-building in the private sector, the construction industry, in particular engineering
       firms and building enterprises, and in the area of urban development management.

4.     Formulation of an urban development strategy as a basis for a future urban development program.
       In this connection, the Government, in consultation with IDA, should take all necessary measures
       to ensure the successful execution of the initiative underway with Cities Alliance, namely the Cities
       Development Strategy (CDS) study based on two pilot-towns (Dosso and Maradi).




                                                     - 39 -

- 40 -

