fr4. 3
NIGER
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES INFRASTRUCTURES
ROAD REHABILITATION COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY
Table of Contents
Background ...............................2
Project description ...............................3
Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework ...............................4
Environrnental Impact ...............................5
Social Impact ...............................8
Mitigating measures ...............................8
Environmental management and training ..............................                    12.
Environmental monitoring ..............................                                 14
Annexes
1 . List of the Proposed Roads Included in the Project
2. Map of Project area with the Proposed Roads
3. Terms of Reference
4. Draft law, "Ordonnance", on institutionalization of Environment Impact Studies
5. Excerpt from "Principes Directeurs d'une Politique de Développement Rural pour le Niger"
6. Envirounental aspects of the Gaya - Bimin Gaoure area
7. Terms of Reference for site-specific environmental impact assessment of regraveling
work carried out unter the project
8. Terms of Reference: Environmental Impact Study of roads number 89 and 97
9. Cost estimates for Environmental Impact Study of roads number 89 and 97
10. NGO Consultation. Notes.
11. Cost estimates for the establishment of an environmental unit of DTP and its work conducted
under the PRI project
12. References
13 Persons met






2
BACKGROUND
1.    The road network of Niger is a key factor for economic development of the country, The
Government of Niger has expressed the need for improved maintenance of the existing road
system. In this context, the World Bank is preparing an infrastructure rehabilitation project
which includes a proposal for regraveling of about twenty unpaved roads. (See list of roads in
Annex I and map in Annex 2).
2.    The environmental impact analysis was launched to study the extent of potential adverse
impact of proposed road rehabilitation work as well as identify any major site-specific impacts
which would require an additional comprehensive assessment and mitigation plan prior to the
project appraisal. (See terms of reference of the mission in Annex 3).
Environmental Issues
3.    The biotops of the project area include Sahelian pastoral grasslands, Sudano-Sahelian
plateau woodlands further south and small areas of Sudanian woodlands near the southern border
with Benin. The vegetation varies depending on soil types, rainfall patterns and land use'.
Rainfalls are often limited but intensive and may for a short time bring a surplus of water on the
ground with subsequent erosion risk during runoff, especially on slopes. The Sahelian zone is
traditionally used most for grazing, but with increasing population and settlement trends, more
and more land is being cultivated, often through extension onto marginal lands.
4.    The main environmental problem in Niger is land desertification. The natural ecosystems
have suffered severely over the last decades due to droughts and to the continuous expansion of
human activities in rural areas. It is estimated that the wildlife population has declined by 90%
over the last twenty years. Clearing of land for cultivation and the increasing need for and
collection of.fuelwood are factors contributing to the disappearance of protective vegetation in
large areas of the country. The subsequent soil erosion caused by wind and violent rainfalls is
now of major concern.
Enviroumental Analysis Requirements
5.    The regulations and guidelines which governs the conduct of the environmental analysis
of this project include the following:



3
a) The World Bank Operational Directives 4.0 1, "Environmental Assessment". and the
related Operational Policy 4.04, "Natural Habitats";
b) The Republic of Niger: Draft legislation on the institutionalization of enviromnental
impact studies ("Avant projet - Ordonnance portant Institutionnalisation des Etudes
d'Impact sur l'Environnement" - Annex 4). The legislation is expected to be signed
before the end of this year.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6.    The highway and transport sector component of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
consists of:
a) provision of technical assistance to assist the Governnent in privatizing public works
equipment rental activities carried out by the Departmnent of Public Works
Equipment, making the National Road Laboratory autonomous, restructuring the
Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure, preparing road maintenance strategies for
paved, unpaved and rural roads, implementing a sustainable mechanism for road
maintenance financing, and developing the use of small and medium enterprises in
road maintenance;
b) provision of technical assistance to the Department of Land Transport to improve
road safety and quality of passenger and freight transport services and to the
Department of Civil Aviation to commercialize airport management;
c) limited rehabilitation of public works equipment to ensure immediate availability of a
minimum of equipment for rental to small and medium enterprises;
d) provision of computers, software and other equipment to improve the capacity in the
Highway Department to monitor the road network condition and to program road
maintenance works;
e) execution of a regraveling programn of about 1,860 km of earth roads;
f) strengthening of the capacity of sector institutions to manage environmental concems;
and
g) provision of training services and seminars in conjunction with other project
activities.



4
7.    Works will consist in the regraveling of the road surface with lateritic materials, spot
rehabilitation of the road base, rehabilitation or cleaning of drainage culverts and ditches,
rehabilitation or improvement of signaling and marking. The alignment will be kept unchanged,
except for minor adjustments. for example to create water holes.
POLICY LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
8.    During the 90th, the Govemment has taken several important initiatives towards the
development of a comprehensive legislation on environment and natural resources management.
But already before this time, concern for the natural resources was addressed in a number of legal
documents still in effect. For instance, the Forest Law provides a list of 15 tree species which
require special permission by the Government to cut or harvest. The hunting law regulates
protection of fauna and special nature and game reserves.
9.   In 1992, "Principes Directeurs d'une Politique de Developpement Rural pour le Niger"
was issued (see Annex 5) and in the following year "Principes d'Orientation du Code Rural" was
adopted by the National Assembly. These documents currently constitute the basis for
management of the natural resources of the country.
10.  Important recent undertakings in this field are the preparation of a "Plan National de
Lutte Contre la Desertification" and the work towards a "Plan d'Action des Forets
Tropicales". International Conventions signed by the Government include those on
International Important Wetlands, Desertification, Climate Change and the Biodiversity
Convention.
il.  In 1993, a national committee was created to follow up on the recommendations of
Agenda 21 and prepare a national environmental action plan. The work program was later
expanded and in January 1996, "Le Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un Development
Durable" (C?IEDD) was established with the mandate to help implement, to follow up and
evaluate "Le Plan National de lEnvironnement pour un Development Durable". It should also
coordinate governmental actions with respect to environmnental information and sensitization, as
well as follow up and evaluate the impact of development programs and projects affecting
natural resource management. CNEDD is linked directly to the office of the prime minister and
composed of the Secretary Generals of all ministries concerned by the environment. It is served
by an executive secretariat. Eight regional councils will be established throughout the country.
The plan will constitute the basis for a future comprehensive environmental legisiation.



5
Direction de I'Environnement
12.   According to decision N° 064/MHE/DAAF dated 03/09/92 defining its organization and
its responsibilities, "Direction de I'Environnement" (DE) under "Minister de l'Hydraulique et de
I'Environnement" is in charge of and includes services for, among others, reduction of land
degradation, fauna and flora, control of pollution and hazardous material and for environnentai
studies, training seminars and public environmental information. With respect to institutional
capacity, DE has currently only a few specialists to cover environmental impact of economic and
social development of the country including impact studies of projects, legislation and support to
other ministries.
Direction des Travaux Publics
13.   1996 by-laws defines the missions of "Direction des Travaux Publics" (DTP) under
"Minister de I'Equipement et des Infrastructures". It is in charge of the planning, organization
and implementation of all road sector works. Among others, it will initiate, undertake and
coordinate relevant studies for transport projects, including all types of roads from paved to dirt
roads. According to DTP, there is currently no regulation or directives with respect to
environmental impact studies under the road sector legal framework. DTP has no environmental
staff within its organization.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
14.   Environmental impact analysis of development activities in Niger has not yet been
regulated by law. But this year the govemment has prepared a draft legislation on the
institutionalization of environmentai impact studies ("Avant projet - Ordonnance portant
Institutionnalisation des Etudes d'Impact sur l'Environnement"). The legislation is
expected to be signed before the end of the year. (See Annex 4.)
Environmental Impact
15.   Environmental considerations in connection with rehabilitation of unpaved roads in Niger
are mainly related to the composition of adjacent vegetation cover, the risk for wind and water
erosion, the hydrological conditions and to the existence of biodiversity of significant value.
Particular attention should be given to any removal of vegetation, disturbance of natural
ecosystems and soil conditions, to impacts on surface and ground water flows mcluding roadside
runoff conditions and arrangements for drainage and management of runoff water beyond the
immediate roadside, and to the location, extraction work and rehabilitation of quarries and
borrow areas.



6
16.   At consultations with various institutions in Niamey, information was obtained and
discussed concerning the ecosystems through which the roads are passing, including topography.
hvdrology. soil conditions. vegetation cover, fauna and human impact.
17.  Inforrnation was also gathered with respect to the current state of the selected roads, the
extent of work to be carried out, the current use of the roads and expected traffic pattems after
rehabilitation.
18.   During the study, field trips were carried out to three of the proposed roads: Gaya Margou
(road 97), Margou - Ounditan (road 89) and RN7 PK86.6 - Boureimi (road 21). Environmental
and forestry experts from Ministry of Environment, central and regional levels, as well as road
engineers from Department of Public Works, also from both central and regional levels,
participated in the field trips.
Conclusions
19.  In general, with the exception of five roads for which specific recommendations are
provided below, adverse environmnental impact of the rehabilitation project is expected to be
limited due to a number of reasons.
*  The work only involves renewing the lateritic road surface using the existing roadbase.
*  No new alignments will be included.
• The improvement of the road conditions is not expected to change the traffic patterns to
any large extent and would therefore not entail significant increase of new developments
with subsequent secondary environmental impacts; and
-  The project roads are mOstly passing through areas of minor altitude differences. The
land is to a large extent used for cultivation and grazing. No natural habitats of
significant importance are registered near the selected roads.
20.   Hoawever, some of the roads involve shorter distances of sand encroachmnent. These will
require special considerations on sand stabilization. With appropriate planning of the project's
rehabilitation work including environmental mitigation measures for water management, soil
conservation and maintenance/replacement of vegetation cover, potential negative environmental
effects would be kept to a minimum.
Road 97, within Dosso Partial Reserve
21.   The southem part of road number 97, Gaya - Margou, is passing through the "Reserve
Partielle de Dosso". This reserve was created as a buffer zone for "W" National Park, which is
situated on the opposite side of the river Niger. During a few months of the year, when the water
level of the river is low, park animals occasionally cross over to feed in the reserve. A number of



7
protected tree species are also found in the area. A summarv of environmental aspects of the
Gaya-Birni n'Gaouré area is presented in Annex 6.
22.   Several vil1ages are located within the partial reserve of Dosso and existed already before
its creation. Large areas are under cultivation or used for pasture, particularly along the road.
Thus, the project does not involve impact on original natural habitats. However, a more detailed
environmental impact analysis should be carried out before the technical studies of project
execution are launched. Such an analysis should address any potential negative impact of the
project and provide detailed recommendations for mitigation. It should also identify
opportunities for the project to contribute to improving the environment for both wildlife and
human population.
Road 97 and 89, in the Dallol Bosso Area
23.   The northem part of the same road is following the valley Dallol Bosso. The valley is
continuing also north of Margou, and is there served by road number 89, Margou Ounditan. The
Dallol Bosso area is home of the last giraffes remaining in West Africa, and of considerable
interest to biodiversity conservation. It is presently unprotected. Most of the area is cultivated or
used as pastoral land, and the giraffes are co-existing with the local population and domestic
animais.
24.   The giraffes have become a recognized tourist attraction. The Government has so far
trained about twenty official guides from the nearby villages in an effort to draw upon wildlife
tourism as a source of local income, at the same time strengthening the awareness and protection
of wildlife. Thus, local traffic in this area is expected to grow, even if only slowly. One accident
between giraffe and truck has been reported.
25.   The road rehabilitation work is not expected to adversely affect or modify the conditions
for the giraffe population to any large extent, provided that adequate precautions are taken. In a
more detailed environmental impact analysis of the Dallol Bosso roads (97 and 89) measures
should be ideptified not only to minimize any potential negative consequences of the
rehabilitation work, but also to take the opportunities to improve the environmental conditions
and prepare for future traffic situation.
Rond 48 and 49, in the Keita Region
26.   The topography of the Keita region is characterized by hilly terrain with steep slopes.
Thus, the risk for soil erosion is particularly high in connection with the rehabilitation of roads
number 48 and 49, Madaoua - Keita - RN25 PK22. Special attention must be given and detailed
directives developed during the environmental study ofthese roads.



8
Road 86, Northwest of the River Niger
27.   Road number 86, Foneko - Yatakala. is located in the northern part of the region between
Niamey - Tillabery and the Mali - Burkina Faso border. This region of the country still contains
areas with only scattered settlements, particularly in the south. The whole region is now subject
to a larger environmental impact assessment triggered by requests from the mining industry to
the Government and the financing donor for the construction of access roads to future potential
mining sites. The proposed sites are located in the southem part, in areas not yet opened to
development. Even with the fact that road number 86 does not open up any new areas to
settlements and development, it would be important to follow the assessment work to benefit
from information that might be provided on the project related area.
SOCIAL IMPACT
28.   The unpaved roads included in the project are used by regional transports and local
populations. Current road conditions have not caused any limitation in the transportation of
goods and people. Regravelling of the surface is therefore not expected to influence traffic
intensity and encourage a significant increase in new developments.
29.   Improved road surface may invite increased speed of the vehicles and thereby an
increased safety threat to local people using the road as pedestrians or to non-motorized vehicles.
Appropriate measures should be taken to eliminate such safety risks particularly in connection
with villages and other settlemens.
30.   An additional safety concern is linked to the vehicles transporting goods and people
between villages. The project should ensure that there are adequate areas for loading/unloading
off the road during all seasons.
31.   Recomnmendations on local participation during project planning and implementation are
given below.
MMGATING MEASURES
32.   The following reconunendations are developed to address the mitigation of potential
negative enviromnental effects of the road rehabilitation work and to ensure that opportunities
are taken to enhance the environment and natural resources affected by the project.



9
Guidelines on Environmental Aspects of Road Maintenance
33.   The document "Road Maintenance and the Environrnent" is prepared under the
SubSaharan Africa Transport Program, a World Bank/Economic Conimission for Africa
initiative. The paper gives environmental guidance for road maintenance activities. Of particular
relevance are the sections on maintenance of unpaved roads.
34.  It is recommended that the guidelines be adopted as a framework for integrated
environmental management in road maintenance in Niger and serve as a practical guidance to the
technical studies in the planning of the regravelling of each road proposed by the project.
Site-Specific Environmental Studies
35.   For each individual road to be regraveled, a detailed, site-specific enviromnental study
should be carried out at the planning stage and a set of mitigation measures should be prepared tO
be incorporated into the construction work plan (Cahier de charge des travaux). The studies
should be carried out by environmental specialists of DTP (re proposal for new environmental
unit of DTP - see below) as part of the technical pre-construction studies for each road.
Collaboration between environmental and road engineering staff is important.
36.   Each site-specific environmental study should be cleared by the ministry of environment
and other departments concerned in accordance with the new draft legislation on the
institutionalization of environmental impact studies. Draft temis of reference for the site-specific
studies were prepared according to the adopted guidelines (see Annex 7). The following issues
were emphasized:
a) Each site-specific enviromnental study should identify any sensitive areas with
respect to flora and fauna, which should be protected from major disturbances such as
removal of vegetation and borrow pit excavation. Recommendations on appropriate
management measures should be prepared, for example, to use borrow pit excavations
as,water holes for the fauna or for the agriculture.
b) The study should identify any areas of high risk for soil erosion. Depending on local
conditions of the road cnvironment regarding topography, fragility of the soils,water
infiltration capacity, extent of protective vegetation cover and use of the surrounding
land, recommendations should be provided on drainage and run off water
management, on soil conservation measures such as arrangements to prevent high
speed flow of run off water and on opportunities for improved protection of the
ground such as planting/replanting of trees.



10
c) The study should provide advice on species and methods for the establishment of
vegetation as soil and sand stabilization as well as for the replacement of damaged
vegetation cover.
d) The site specific environmental study should pay special attention to the location of
quarries and borrow pits. It should point out areas that, for environrnental reasons,
should not be exploited, but also recommend preferred locations for extraction of
materials. Collaboration with the project's road engineering experts is essential
e) The study should give recommendations on preferred locations for dumping of sand
in areas of sand encroachment.
f) The study should give recommendations on preferred locations of worksite facilities
and areas for storage of larger amounts of materials during the work period.
g) The study should ensure consultations with local people to protect and enhance local
living conditions.
Road 48 and 49, in the Keita Region
37.   The topography of the Keita region is characterized by hilly terrain with steep slopes.
The environmental study of the roads number 48 and 49 should pay extra attention to the high
risk for erosion and recommend on measures to minimize adverse environrental impact and, to
the benefit of both the road and the surrounding environment, restore currently degraded areas
influenced by the road. Close collaboration between the environmental and road engineering
staff of DTP is of great importance.
Road 86, Northwest of the River Niger
38.   The environmental study of road number 86, Foneko - Yatakala, should closely follow up
on the resulta being developed under the European Union financed Environmental Impact
Assessment of proposed mining access roads in the region west of the river Niger. The study
should analyze and take into account any recommendations which concem the area influenced bv
road 86.
Special Environmental Impact Study of Roads Number 97 and 89
39.   A separate environmental impact analysis should be carried out for roads number 97 and
89 prior to the technical studies of project execution. The analysis should pay particular attention
to the biodiversity values of the Dosso partial reserve along road 97 and the giraffe biotops along
roads 97 and 89. It should identify any potential harmfnl effects on the natural fauna and flora.
It should also seek to identify opporunities for the project to contribute to improving the current



Il
environmental conditions. Local people should be consulted in order to ensure sustainable
results. In particular, the studv should:
a) Identify the tocal areas frequented by wildlife and recomunend measures to avoid or
minimize any disturbance from the rehabilitation work;
b) Identify biotops carrying a flora of particular interest and value, such as those tree
species protected by lawi and specify how the project could avoid any cutting of trees
or other damage to this vegetation;
c) Identify areas of particular sensitivity to erosion and advice on control measures and
ways of taking special precautions during the rehabilitation work in order to avoid
negative impact;
d) Identify those areas along the roads which are currently being eroded, for exarnple by
run off water from the road, and recomrnend how the project could contribute to restore
the damage and enhance the roadside environment;
e) Identify a number of sites along the roads to which quarries and borrow pits could be
located with minirnum of adverse impact. Also define areas where no extraction of
lateritic soil or other materials should be allowed;
f) Recommend for each excavation site the best alternative for rehabilitation after the
work. Consult with local populations on any special requests for future use of the sites,
for example for seasonal water collection. Also consider the benefit of water holes for
wildlife;
g) Identify any other major potential or existing environmental problems of the area
influenced by thc road and road work activities, and recominend appropriate
environmental management measures.
40.   In the analysis of environmental impacts on the giraffe biotops of the Dallol Bosso roads,
some special considerations should be addressed:
a) Analyze the oppomunity to control erosion and at the same time improve the biotops
by plantation of trees, particularly those species constituting the staple food for
giraffes. Take into account any tree ownership issues and recomrnmend accordingly;
b) Analyze and recommend on measures to avoid traffic accidents with giraffes,
particularly as the traffic intensity is expected to gradually increase due to a growing
tourism. Actions to be taken under this project component may include devices on



12
the road surface to slow down passing vehicles at locations where the animals are
comrnonly crossing the road. Other measures may involve signposts along the road.
41.   It is recommended that the environmental study be conducted by an ecologist/natural
resource management specialist (3 weeks) with input from a road engineering/ soilhydrology
specialist (1 week). Terrns of Reference of the study are presented in Annex 8. Cost estimates
for the study are presented in Annex 9.
Participation by Local People and Non-Governmental Organizations
42.   Unpaved roads are of particular importance to the local population. Provision for project
participation by local people and non-governmental organizations (NGOS) should be given.
During both the project planning phase with its technical and environmental studies for each
road, and during the implementation of the rehabilitation work, local people and NGOs should be
provided the opportunity to participate and provide opinions and recommendations to be taken
into account in the studies.
43.   Local people should be consulted, for example, to help finding the most appropriate
solutions for management of run off water near the settlements. The creation of semi-permanent
ponds after terminated use of quarries and borrow pits could provide an appreciated additional
source of water in areas of scarcity, thereby enhancing the local environmnent for both wildlife
and people.
44.   A first step towards participation was taken during this environmental impact study, when
a meeting was arranged with representatives of non-govermmental organizations (see Annex 10).
Among the present NGOs should be noted a federation of rural area groups with a total
membership of 2200.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
Legislation
45.   In the past, no legislation requiring environmental impact analysis of economic
development projects in Niger has existed . The recently prepared draft legislation on the
institutionalization of environmental impact studies is the first in this field. The legislation is
expected to be signed before the end of the year.
46.   It is recomnmended that clauses of the legislation related to environmental impact
assessments be observed, even before signing by all road sector initiatives in the country.



13
Establishment Of An Environmental Unit Of DTP
47.   No environrnental specialization has earlier been represented within the organization of
the road authorities. However, with the creation of CNEDD as a coordinating body for
environmental management of economic development, directives were given requesting all
governmental institutions to assign focal points for the environment. With this new orientation
of the Government and emphasis on environnental issues, there is an urgent need for
strengthening the environrnental management capacity of the road sector authorities.
48.   The requirement for environrmental analysis studies of the individual roads of the
rehabilitation project is clear. Therefore, it is recommended that, as an early component of this
project, an environmental unit be established within DTP responsible for environrnental
management and impact assessment of road sector activities.
49.   The environmental unit should initially consist of two specialists covering:
a) ecology and natural resource management; and
b) hydro-geology/soil sciences/road engineering.
In addition, funds should be set aside for the procurement of social impact studies as
appropriate.
50.   The Terms of Reference of the unit would include the following:
a) develop procedures for integrating environmental aspects into road maintenance,
rehabilitation or construction works carried out by DTP;
b) promote cooperation between environrnental and road engineering expertise;
c) conduct environmental studies and environmental impact analysis of all road projects;
d) monitor the implementation of environmental analysis recommendations;
e) organize training of DTP staff on environmental management of road sector activities;
f) as a first assignment, conduct the site-specific environrental stucies under the road
rehabilitation project (PRI).
51.   Training should be provided to the new environmental staff members. It is recommended
that provision be given for study trips to one or a few African countries where the



14
roadienvironment institutional framework is successfully in place. Four staffweeks for each
person is recommended.
52.  In-service training should also be provided to the new environmental unit to help develop
work program, procedures and network. Three months of Technical Assistance would be
appropriate, divided in three periods covering the 2nd, 6th and 12th month after establishment.
53.   The DTP environnent unit should, in collaboration with the Environnent Department
(DE), and CNEDD plan and conduct training of DTP staff and of representatives from other
institutions concerned of environmental impact of road sector projects. Initial funding should be
provided by the road rehabilitation project and shared by CNEDD, DE and DTP to finance these
activities and operating costs of the environmental unit in DTP. Cost estimates for the
establishment of an environnental unit of DTP are presented in Annex 11.
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
54.   The first part of the environmental monitoring of the project should include information
on the implementation of institutional recommendations. This includes the establishmnent of the
environmental unit of DTP adoption of its work program and training of its staff members. It
also includes the training seminars for DTP staff funded under this project.
55.   The second part of the environmental monitoring involves information on the physical.
biological and social environment at each local site before, during and after the rehabilitation
work. The purpose is to evaluate and ensure that required environmental mitigation measures are
properly implemented.
56.  In connection with each site-specific environmental study, the new envirorunental unit of
DTP should prepare a program for monitoring of the implementation of the measures
recommended in the different studies as well as monitoring of expected qualitative improvements
of the affected natural resources. The project should ensure appropriate finding.
November 1996
Inger Bertilsson



15
Annex 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INGER BERTILSSON
NIGER - INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD REHABILITATION COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Consultant will be responsible for:
I . Institutional aspects. Analyze the capacity of environmental assessment of road rehabilitation projects
in governmental institutions including road sector agencies and environmental agencies. Identify
possible needs for strengthening, and recommend appropriate measures.
2.  Guidelines. Identify appropriate guidelines to be agreed upon and followed in the
planning and implementation of the rehabilitation of each individual road.
3.    Sector level aspects. Review the principles for selection of individual road sections to be
included in this project and ensure that environmental considerations are adequately covered. At this
stage, any potential disturbance of natural habitats should be addressed. In addition, improved
transportation might induce immigration and new developments. Any potential impact of increased
human pressures should also be addressed here.
4.    Site specific aspects. Identify the type of potential negative environmental impact of road
rehabilitation, that could be examined and assessed in connection with the site specific engineering
studies. Examnples of such issues are soil erosion and impact on the ground water table and flow.



ANNEX I
RESULTATS DU CALCUL HDM III POUR LES ROUTES EN TERRE
Rechargement des Routes en Terre
No. RN                       Section                      Longeur (km)
NC                           Dogondoutchi - Dogonkiria    73.5
30`                         RNIE-Komaka                  55.5
16                          Kaita-RN25PK22               53.
19                          Tchadaoua-Mayahi             53.4
23                          Loga-Dogondoutchi            91.1
22                          RN 25PK73-Tchintabaraden    76.9
29                          Malbaza Est-Dabnou           25.5
15                          Tebaram-Badaguichiri         170.5
13                          Tinkim-Nigeria               76.5
NC                           Foneko-Yatakala              92.6
20                           Gazoua-Nigeria               66.9
2                            RN7PK86-6 - Boureimi         109.3
18                          Madaoua-Keita                114.6
NC                           Baleyara - Bambangou         148
NC                           Bonkoukou - Chyniassou      46
NC                           Dakoro - Belbeji             148
23                           Baleyara - Loga             45.7
12                          Magaria - Nigeria            61.2
NC                           Margou - Ounditan (RN25)    110
NC                           Matameye - Kafumbaka         37
NC                           Matameye - Tarwani           24
NC                           Margou - Gaya                179.5
NC                           Gaya- Tara                   7



hh-  v*                     .           5    -` - ;              `-i*?                              x                  -     -   ` :
~~~~~~~*  .ç-    '--                               _'   : 
*~~~~~        ~~~ ,-  \                                               -**** * _~                                          f
-~..                                      ..                             !
*   i              "                                   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:              .s                                                                                                :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t                                                                5
*   ;                                                                                §-*#' -0 **. IW.*g        -s ._  ._
Ie4;.e I***1'e.:    -- a _ . _ ..
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-  S ** * .v                                  '      .v " ,. ,
-  n. n&2t:  *0l      - -   
~~I#Mt ~  JE.::3 
*                                                                                  t8?~~~~~~~~~~~~~aDUD!+DN  s24"%
-.                                                                                                       *        ..  -     - ---  31N fO Jl.-.



TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR rNGER BERTILSSON
NIGER - INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD REHABILITATION COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Consultant will be responsible for:
I. Institutional aspects. Analyze the capacity of environmental assessment of road rehabilitation projects
in governmental institutions including road sector agencies and environmental agencies. Identify
possible needs for strengthening, and recommend appropriate measures.
2.  Guidelines. Identify appropriate guidelines to be agreed upon and followed in the
planning and implementation of the rehabilitation of each individual road.
3.    Sector level aspects. Review the principles for selection of individual road sections to be
included in this project and ensure that environmental considerations are adequately covered. At this
stage, any potential disturbance of natural habitats should be addressed. In addition, improved
transportation might induce immigration and new developments. Any potential impact of increased
human pressures should also be addressed here.
4.    Site specific aspects. Identify the type of potential negative environmental impact of road
rehabilitation, that could be examined and assessed in connection with the site specific engineering
studies. Examples of such issues are soil erosion and impact on the ground water table and flow.



-  ase 1 of S
REPUB LIOiUE DU NIGER                 AVANT PROJET
ORDONNANCE N°             /
du        1996
Por an nmnstitutionnaiisation
des Etudes d'Impact sur l'Envirorinement
Vu   la constitution du 12 Mai 1996;
Vu   la Déclaration du 27 janvier 1996,
:Vu   l'ordonnance n° 96-001 du 0 janvier 1996, portant organisation des pouvoirs publics
pendant la transition;
Vu   l'Ordonnance n°96-017 du 26 avril 1996, modifiant l'ordonnance n0 96-001 du 30
janvier 1996, portant organisation des pouvoirs publics.
Sur Rapport du Ministre du Développement Rural de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement
LE CONSEIL DES MINISTRES ENTENDU
LE PRESEDENT DU CONSEIL DE SALUT NATIONAL CHEF DE L'ETAT
SIGNE L'ORDONNANCE DONT LA TENEUR SUIT:
GENERALITES
Articl 1: AÙx termes de la présente ordonnance, il faut -entendre par "à'nvironnement"
l'ensemble, des aspects physiques, chimriques, biologiques, les facteurs sociaux et les relations
dynamiques entretenues entre ces différentes composantes.
Article 2: Aux terrnes de la présente ordonnance, il faut entendre par "Impact sur
l'environnement": les changements que la réalisation d'un projet risque de causer a
l'environnement. Sont comprises parmi les changements à l'environnement, les répercussions
de ceux-ci soit en matière sanitaire et socio-économique, soit sur l'usage courant de terres et
de ressources a des fins traditionnelles, soit sur une construction, un emplacement ou. une



chose d'impor.ance notamment en -nauaere historique. archéolocique, paiêonto oic.ue ou
archite-turale.
Article 3: La prorection des espaces naturels et des paysaces, .la prêse.rvaton des espèces
animales et vegé:ales, le maintien des écuilibres biologiques auxquels ils participent et la
protectcn des ressources naturelles et de l'environnement contre toutes les causes de
dégradation qui les menacent sont d'intérét géniéai et favorisent ie développement durable au
NJi2er.
il est du devoir de chacun de veiller à la sauvegarde du patrimoine naturel et de
l'environnement dans lequel il vit. Les activités publiques -ou privées d'aménagement,
d'éuquioement et de production doivent se conformer aux mémes exicences.
La réalisation de ces objectifs doit éEaiement assurer l'équilibre harmonieux de ia
population résidant dans les milieux urbains et ruraux.
Les études d'irnpact sur l'environnement constituent un outil efficace pour la prise en
compte des facteurs environnementaux dans les processus de planification et de décision, de
façon à promouvoir le développement durable.
DES ETUDES D'LMPACT SUR L'ENVIRONNENIENT
Article 4: Les activités, qui, par l'importance de leurs dimensions ou leurs incidences sur les
milieux naturel et humain, peuvent porter atteinte à ces derniers, sont soumises à une
autorisation préalable du Ministre Chargé de l'Environnement.
Cette autorisation est accordée sur la base d'une étude d'impact sur l'environnement
préparée par le promoteur, permettant d'en apprécier les conséquences.
Article 5: Un décret pris en Conseil des Ministres précisera les modalités d'application du
précédent article.
Il fixera notamment:
- les conditions dans lesquelles les préoccupations d'environnement seront prises en
compte dans les textes réglementaires en vigueur,
- la procédure administrative d'évaluation et d'examen des impacts sur
l'environnement;
- le contenu de l'étude d'impact sur l'environnement qui comprendra au minimum une
analyse de l'état initial du site et de son environnement, une description du projet, l'étude des
modifications que le projet y engendrerait et les mesures envisagées pour supprimer, réduire et,
si possible, compenser les conséquences dommageables pour l'environnement;
- Les conditions dans lesquelles l'étude d'impact sur l'environnement sera rendue
publique et le mécanisme prévu afin de permettre aux personnes et groupes concernés, et au



public en cénéral d  -:re consuites e- dc pouvoir ._ire ces _;.-.er.:aires e: SUL!:Zs::C-is en. ce
qui concerne le projet.
Article 6: Les 2c:tivtes Visées à l'ar.;c.e 4 de la présente oàro-- a - e sar.: enurreres . i :.exe
"A" et les ac;:vités non conc:rnes par le    "   2,.i  sor eà
-Article ': Sur proposition du NLr-stre Cnar-é cel'Environner,n:, ie Conseil ces  INEstres
établit e: reise mar ce-re ia liste dos az:tvîtes, travaux et aocuments de pianiri  a:ion pour
lesouels les autorités pubiiques ne pourront, sous peine de nullité, prendre aucune décision,
approbation ou autorisation sans disposer d'une étude d'impact sur l'environnement leur
permettant d'en apprécie r les conséquences sur l'environnement.
Article 8: Nonobstant les dispositions de l'article 6, le Ministre Chargé de l'Environnement
peut exiger une étude d'impact sur l'environnement chaque fois qu'il l'estime nécessaire.
DU BLUREAU DES EVA:,.LUATIONS ENVIRONNEMIENTALES ET DES ETUDES
D'IMPACT
Article 9: Il est institué, sous la tutelle du Ministère Char-né de l'Environnement, un Bureau
d'Evaluation Environnementale et des Etudes d'Impact (BEEEI) réurissant les différents
spécialistes nécessaires pour une appréciation correcte du rapport de l'étude d'impact et des
conséquences d'un projet sur tous les aspects de l'environnement.
Article 10: Un Décre: pris en Conseil des Ministres précisera l'organisation, les attributions, la
composition et les modalités de fonctionnement du Bureau des Evaluations Environnementales
et des Etudes d'Impact.
DES INFRACTIONS ET DES PENALITES
Article 11: Toute personne physique ou toute corporation qui enfreint à l'article 4 commet
une infraction et est passible des amendes prévues par l'article Il de la présente ordonnance et
par les textes pris pour son application.
Article .12: Sera punie d'un emprisonnement de l à 5 ans et d'une amende de 50 millions à
500 millions de francs ou de l'une des ces deux peines seulement, sans préjudice des
dommages-intérêts et de la remise en etat des lieux, toute personne physique qui se sera rendue
coupable des infractions prévues à l'article l l de la présente ordonnance..



Toute corporation déclarée coupabie d'une infraction visee a l'article I l est passible
d'une amende minimale trois fois plus élevee et d'une amende maximale six fois plus élevee,
que celles qui sont prevues au présent article.
En cas de récidive judiciairement constatée, les peines prée-ues dans le présent ar.icLe
sont pcrtées au double.
Article 13: Autant cue les circonstances le permettent, les produits de l'opération air.si que les
movens utiiisés seront sisis, rsous nmain de la justice puis confisques -
Article 14: Concur.remment avec les officiers de la Police Judiciaire, les fonctionnaires
assermentés de l'adinin1'stration de l'environnement, peuvent rechercher el constater par procès
verbaux les infractions à la présente ordonnance.
Article 15: Les actions et poursuites sont exercées directement par le Ministre Chargé de
l'Environnement devant les juridictions compétentes et sans préjudice des préro,atives du
Ministère Public.
DES DISPOSITIONS FINALES
Article 16: Le produit des amendes prononcées en application de la présente Ordonnance qui
sera prélevé directement à la source sera réparti comme suit:
50% au trésor public
30% à la collectivité locale
20% au BEEEI
Article 17: Les 20% versés au BEEEI serviront à alimenter son budget de fonctionnement.
Article 18: Sont nulles et sans effets toutes dispositions antérieures et contraires à cette
Ordonnance.
Article 19: La présente ordonnance sera exécutée comme loi de l'Etat et publiée au Journal
Officiel de la Republique du Niger selon la procédure d'urgence.
Fait à Niamey, le ....,,,,..1996
Signé: LE PRESIDENT DU CONSEIL DE SALUT NATIONAL
Le Général de Brigade Ibrahim Mainassara Baré



ANNEXE A: Activités obli"ntnirement assiuiettis ri la nrocédure d'év:luarinn et
d'exnmeni (Articles 4 ,6 et 7)
Les activités mentionnées ci-dessous sont obli£atoiremenen assuje::ies a la przce&4re
d'évaluation et d'examen prévue aux ar.icles 4 et 5:
- tout projet -riinier au sens du  Code Minuer, y compris l'aarandissemen.  la
transformation ou ia modi.cation d'une exploitation rrunière existante;
- tout banc d'emprunt, sablière ou carriere dont la superficie à découvrir couvre 3
hectares ou plus;
- toute centrale hydroélectrique destinée à produire de l'énergie éiec,rique et d'une
puissance supérieure à 10 MW notamment sa construction ou l'augmentation de sa puissance
la portant à 10 MW ou plus;
- toute centrale électronucléaire, notamment sa construction ou son agrandissement, de
meme que les ouvrages connexes tels usines de fabrication, usines de traitement ou
retraitement de combustible nucléaire, lieux d'élimination ou d'entreposage de déchets
radioactifs;
- tout réservoir d'emmagasinage et bassin de retenue d'eau relié à un ouvrage destiné à
produire de l'énergie;
- toute ligne de transport d'énergie électrique d'une tension de plus de 75 KV et plus,
notamment la construction et la relocalisation de cette lignie sur une distance de plus de 2
;ilomètres de meme que la construction ou la relocalisation d'un poste de manoeuvre ou de
transformation de 75 KV et plus;
- toute opération ou établissement d'extraction ou de traitement de matière destinée à
produire de l'énergie;
- toute centrale therrnique alimentée par un combustible fossile et dont la capacité
calorifique est égale ou supérieur à 3000 kW;
- toute route ou tronçon d'une telle route d'une longueur d'au moins 25 km et dont la
durée d'utilisation est prévue pour au moins 15 ans à des fins d'exploitation forestière minière
ou énergétique, notammnent sa construction, reconstruction ou élargissement;
- toute scierie, ou autre usine de transformation ou de traitement des produits forestiers
usine d'eau lourde, usine de pâtes et papiers, usine pétrochimnique, cimenterie, raffinerie de
petrole, aciérie, alurirunerie, usine de traitement du minerai, usine de raffinage de métaux, usine
de ferro-alliages, une fonderie de prermière fusion de métaux non-ferreux, notamment sa
construction et son agrandissement;



- tout projet d'uzilisation des terres cui arec:e plus de 65  r;m:;
- tour défrichement des bois et forets à usace cornnerc.al ou industriel su_-rieur a ' 
ha.
- tour installations ou programnmnes porta.t cczu ation du domaine public fvia! de l'E:a:
et ses dépendances notamment:
a) la cons;nuc,ion et ,'exoitation subséquente d'un barrage ou d'une digue à la
vca. rge d'un lac dont la supercie totale 50000 mètre carré.;
b) la construction et l'expioitation d'un barrage ou d'une digue destinée à créer
un réservoir d'une superficie totale excédant 50000 mètre carré;
c) le dragage, le creusage, lè remplissage, le redressement ou le remblaya-e à
quelque fin que ce soir dans un cours d'eau.
d) le détournemen't ou, la dérivation d'un fleuve ou d'une rivière;
- toute recherche et exploitation des ressources minérales dans les zones fluviales
soumises à la souveraineté ou la juridiction nigérienne;
- tout système d'égout sanitaire comportant plus de 1 km de conduites et toute usine
d'épuration des eaux usées sanitaires de:;tinée à traiter plus de 200 kl d'eau usées sanitaires par
jour notamment sa construction et son agrandissement;
- tout système d'enlèvement ct d'élimination des déchets y compris les déchets
dangereux et les déchets biomédicaux notamnuent son impjantation, sa construction et son
agrandissement;
- tout projet de création de parc ou de réserve écologique sa planification et son
aménaeement;
- toute pourvoirie destinée à recevoir simultanément 30 personnes ou plus, y compris
les réseaux d'avant-postes notam=ent sa planification et son aménagement;
- toute implantation de nouvelle ville, communauté ou municipalité et tout
agrandissemenrtde 20% ou plus du territoire global de celles-ci ou du territoire urbanisé de
celles-ci;
- toute construction ou agrandissement de route d'accès à une localité ou infrastructure
routière en vue d'un nouveau projet;
- toute implantation, agrandissement ou modification à une installation portuaire,
chemin de fer, aéroport, gazoduc, oléoduc ou tous travaux de dragage destinés à l'amélioration
de la navigation;
- toute construction,.agrandissement ou modification de travaux de canalisation pour le
transport d'hydrocarbures ou de substances chimiques;



- toute construction ou agrancissement.d'un ou plusieurs bàtiments -'une expicitauor.
de production animale dont le nombre total est supérieur ou écal a 600 unites animales;
- tout programrr.Me ou projet de puivérisation aérienne ou terrestre de pesticides à des
fins non agricoles sur une superficie de 600 hectares;
Les ac.ivités énumérés ci-dessus, ne comprennent pas les travaux de réfec.ion ou de
réparation d'un ouvraee ou d'une cons;ruc:ion en milieu terrestre ni le remplacem-nent ou la
modification d'équipements techniques afférents à un ouvrage ou une construction, sauf dans
le cas d'un agrandissement mentionné expressément.



AINNEXE. B Activités obliritoirenienrt soustrnits :; In procédure d'évnlunItion et
d'exnmen (Article 6)
Les activités mentionnés ci-dessous sont cbloe2atoirernent soustraits à la procédure
d'évaluation et d'examen p.évue aux artic3es. 5.
- tour hôtel ou Ca..ing de 20 lits ou moins et toute station-service situé le long d'une
route;
- toute autre construction destinée à l'habitation ou au commerce de gros et de détail,
destinée à servir de bureaux ou de garage ou destiné à l'artisanat ou au stationnement des
voitures;
- toute centrale thermique alimentée par un combustible fossile et d'une capacité
calorifique inférieure à 3000 kW;
- tout établissement scolaire ou éducatif, halte routière, , banque, caserne de pompiers
ou immeuble destiné à des fins administratives, aux loisirs, aux activités culturelles, au culte,
aux sport, à la santé ou aux télécommurncations;
- tout poste de manoeuvre ou de transformation d'une tension de 75 kV ou moins et
toute ligne de transport d'énergie électrique d'une tension de 75 kV ou moins;
t toute conduite d'aqueduc, d'égout, d'oléoduc ou de gazoduc de moins de 30 cm de
diamètre et d'une longueur inférieur à 8 km;
- tout sondage, étude préliminaire, recherche, expérience hors d'usine, travail de
reconnaissance aérienne ou terrestre, carottage, étude ou relevé technique préalable à un projet
quelconque;
- toute rue ou trottoir municipal;
- l'entretien et l'exploitation de tout chemin public ou privé;
- la réparation et l'entretien des ouvrages municipaux;
- toute installation temporaire destinée à la chasse, à la pèche ou au piégeage et tout
service de pourvoirie ou campement destiné à loger moins de 30 personnes;
- toute coupe d'arbre destinée à une utilisation personnelle ou communautaire;
- tout banc d'emprunt destiné à l'entretient routier.



EXTRAIT DES ?RINCI?Eq DIRECTE';RS D'UNE POLITIOUE
DE DEVELOPPEMrMNT R".RAL POUR LE `;IGER
Orientations générales
La politique naiionale de gestion iategree des ressources naturelles piocede d'une
approche giobale et pIzidi.sczptinaire reposant sur un contexte juridique incitatif (le code rural>.
elle a Pour objectit une transformation progaressibe des systemes de production des eieeeurs et
des &icultem   es vue de prendre en compte le respeca sur le long terme des equilibres
ecologiques foadameatanx.
Para.Uèlemea. pour réponde aax situations d'urgence. des operations prioritaires de defese
et de ruratruioa de leuriroannement seront entreprises.
Les stratéiies a mettre en oeuvre visent.
La restauration prioritaire des zones les plus menacées.
* La mise en oeuvre d'une politique fonciér *adequate.
* La gestion rationnelle du capital forestier et des pàturages.
* La protection de la faune.
* La présertion des ressources halieutiques.
La gestion optimale des ressources en eau,
L'intétration multi-sectorielle des programmes et des actions.
La russite ou l'échec de la politique engagée dépendra de rimportance des moyens qui
auront été mobilisés et du degré de prise de conscience des populations mais aussi de la
cohérence efteccive d« interventions (des programmes généraux jusqu'aux actions de termin)
et de la possibilité réelle (technique. économique et financière) qui sers donnée aux
producteurs d'intéger progresSivement dans leurs systèmes de production les objectifs à
moyen et long terme permnettant de préserver et restaurer le milieu naturel tout en améliorant
leur sécurité sur le court ternie.
:  .         : ...                        .   *    _,.   .@..  . e
il faut ajouter qu'ue geulo  eMcleate des e   rm   narelUes dolt s'appy    U ur iae
po- iqe démogrphique adaptée, oeforme à la déclaradoe  de polque Bu10omal oe la
popladom4 et s'Iuaze   dans une démarche  Aménagement diu TerrtoLre  peetiettant une
vion long tere et proposant une utilisation optimale du potentiel disponible.



?a:e ' cf 2
_O    _ S    R 0 3 u C T,0 N-
_tué car.s 'a frarre-cuest du Dérarte.ne-t de Wosst,  'trrtr-se-e
de 3_r-  ;':acuré se trouve enrre  e   2030C  et 1330  are  aict;ue r.rz et Les
et e:,° de 'or::uce est. _  couvre une surerfizie de              2 *
Le c'.rat est ce t?e scudano-sarélien cu sud (canrorn  e B3rrn  rcar..er.t ),  nrr-
est t.c-uenen  sakel_er  (cantcn de KcyEolo et ?anik.r.asso). Z'Arorni-ssement _e
Boboye se s_:ue entre les isohyétes  400 - 60C  .urr. Ceer.aean. cé_u:s ur certa:r
nombre d'ar.ées, on cor:sate un iénlaceMent desish-è-es du ncr- Vira le sud avec
des précipitatior.s var-ablewd'ur.e annee à l'autreo
Le relie! de l'Arrontissement présente deux vrir.ciraux élement:
- Les plateaux (Z-ji et :^akara)
- La vallée qui est un ancien lit du fleuve comblé par aépots aliuviornaires
et écliens.CY   ' 
La nappe phréab que est peu profonde (1 a 7 m).
La végétation ese caractérisée dans son ensemble par une savane de type soudano-
sahélien à prédominance de : Farinari macrophylla, Acacia albida, ryphaÎne theba ca,
Paradoxa et Borassus aethiopum et qulques galeries de combretacées.
La strate hrebacée est dominée par le Panicum subaldiduo, Cyperus roaondus dans les
bas fonds, _ragratis tromula, Aristida lougiflora, Adropogoi gayama.'et Indigo-era
diphylla au niveau des sois dunaires.
La faune est rare, néanmoins, on rencontre quelques mamiféres dans la réserve
ç4djacente du Parc W. On constate aussi la présence des girafes migrants qui vivent
en grands troupeaux dans la région de Harikanassou, des hypopotanes dans la région
du fleuve, des gazelles et tris rarement des buffles sur les plateaux du Fakara.
L'accroissement démographique galopant se traduit par le mouvement dans
l'espace, c'est à dire le phénomène migratoire entainant les besoins en terres de
cultures dans le Dallol (terres fertiles). La demande des produits et sous-produits
du palmier doum devenue de plus en plus importante dans le Boboye, au lieu que ce
soit des nattes et autres sous-produits des feuilles, ce sont des palmes de doum qui
envahissent les marchés. Cette démographie et les effets pervers des aléas
climatiques dégradent perpétuellement la doumeraie avec d'autres espèces de valeurs
comme : Tanarindus indica, Sclerocarya bierra; Diospiros mespili2or=is, Vitex  orzana,
ari- ri mac. ophylâa.



3.- _     ) S_  :__   ^9__       DES .VD&E5 
oe suCd, zazt '  ^e Boboye, _: e-x_-~Z **e une                    -e e.
- a- -æ   'arrité  *;°               une       -      e i~ D ..a. ia.is  et:a
n'exi ze cue .e r.ce-ar so_.-.:_e                                               -- -rés:^.s  ar.e-r.r _ues (_.:a La_r._ -es
c.. s _e , _e __r.- .- rcr_.:-e ....
p l'us,  . ex:s:e u_e réserve :art:e_:e de faune adjacenzze au Parc  e^ crée
car l'arrêté                    ne. «9 cc,_r.- :   surer'4 c_e d'env-ron  30o.5CC ha.
De nos jcur-z, elle 4cue de n_.ns er. azr.s sor rôle car soun-se aux aléas c' ta::ues
et préssicrs huraines. Sur 'es plateaux se trouvent des fDr_atior.s naturelles de
combretacies. Ces cer-±res offrent unz stock inror:ant de icis de feu -our
l'auvrovisionr.eoeent des ncu:-ations de l'Jircr.dissemer.t et celle ce la  oor-  te
Urbaine de Niazey. Cn renc-r,:re également _es forc.atiors végétales clairsees :a-
le  aellol oui sont com_osées de grands arbres tels que : l'Acacia albida,  rar:r
Macronrhl'a,  Zchaere  theba;ca  vitelaria   zaradoxa,Borassus aàhiouum.
3.3-2 )   DZFT.RLNTS TRatVAUX MENS EN MAÂTr     D 'AMEeAGDEM   3
- MOYNS MISr.E OEUVRE  :
Dans le soucis d'exploiter et gerer les ressources 'orestiires les
marchés ruraux ont été mis en place par le Projet Energie Il  dans la Partie -u-':e~
de l'Arrondissement. Pour ce faire des structures villageoises sont chargees ze
l'exécution des travaux. Des travaux dlenrichissement ont commencé a itre e-.:rrz
dont certains grices aux revenus degenérés par la vente du bois.
Bien que debuté ces travaux d'a.énagement sont insuffisants pour assurer la ,e-r..te
de ces formations naturelles.
Il est à noter que la coupe n'est pas suivie par les agents du Service de
l'nvironnement.
3.4/    C E S /D    S
Sur les 6 terroirs progranmés, tt terroirs ont effectivement -il__es
219 demies - lunes et  10.143  Zats.
La superficie ainsi'récuperée est environ 2 ha-
Les ouvrages ont été réalisés pour 2 vocations :
- Agricole : 1,5 ha
- Syvo - pastorale : 0,5 ha
Une formation en technique de recupération du sol a éte dispensée aux A.V.3, et
Superviseurs en présence de quelques producteurs dans le cadre du  P.R.S.A.6L-



3.5/   AJNAG4EY    jAt3 
La faune de l'A-ron-issener.t es: très maîzre en espèces sur -es:--teauxO
Or. ne tis:_rzue vue les girafes, les pracos, et les cnaca:s.
-a  -r-nt-ère avec le Parc iu ^ fait souvern: que zes buffes et ou des ':z.ns êz
s 'aver:urer.t  ssu'à '~  'ir:iér_eur du Poste   diztrat   de alzey.
: est à souLigrer la mrésernce de -lus:.eurz esnèces d'àiseaux (pir.nades, perzrzx,
canr_s sauvages, hércr.s ...) alnsis que des rorzeurs (larins, écureu_ls,  xuee-e tazé,.0)
_e hro-e: e ra_-e tant atzer,^u  verra '-er.t!t le jour _4a:rrs ure rss: -_
Prc4et dans  ''rondisse.e.t- A propcs des girafes, il faut déploror le carnaze
qu'a''ectué une é-u,__e nor. sneciai& tan: la ca-ture de ce eharnent  spécimeu  aart
nrovocué la nort de c gira±es pour la capture de 2 seu'ement.
3.           AGMT  PCL:
3.6-1 )   Situation  des nlans  d'eau :
L'Arror.-issemer.t de Boboye, traversé sur Mc kn par le fleuve Niger rerer-e
toutes les variétés de poissons du fleuve Niger.
En plus, il corite 50 mares permnentes dcnt la plus grande part est, empoissonnée
en clarias et tilapia sp. Pour les caractéristiques de ces mares (voir annexe N° ::y.
,.6-2 )   Dvnamioue  des  esnèces :
Au niveau des mares, les espèces les plus. importantes sont le tila;_a sp,
les clarias sp et le pr4a pterus a%nnctenSs.
Il est très difficile de faire une étuce comparative de lévolution des stocks des
plans d'eau-en:re cetze année et les années precedentes par manque de statistique
de pêche sur les mares.
3.6-3 )    Amonagement des Picheries :
Dans le cadre de ces activités classiques, le Service a procédé à
l'empoissonnement de deux (2) mares à Birni N'Gaouré ; l'espèce est le Tilonia nilctica.
3-7 /       APICULTURE
3-7-1 )    Potentialités amicoles :
De part les ressources hydricues et l'importance de la diversité biologique
qu'il renferme, l'Arrondissement de Boboye offre beaucoup d'opportinités quant a la
pratique de l'apiculture surtout dans sa partie Sud.
ICSS5A OOZ~ 14 iw.ur dm . eca±qu. P oe,ctlz,a
Che f d  Service de l'E±ro.e»at de Bobo
E6Ub1±quo tu Niger



Face 1 of
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES INFRASTRUCTURES
Etude d'Evaluation de l'Impact sur l'Environnement
du Programme de Rechargement de Six Routes en Terre
Termes de Référence
I. INTRODUCTION
57.   Le Projet de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures a été préparé par le Gouvernement avec
l'objectif d'accroître l'efficacité de l'entretien routier. Il comprend une composante de soutien à
la réforme institutionnelle du secteur de l'entretien routier et une composante de travaux
d'entretien périodique d'une partie du réseau de routes en terre.
58.   Une analyse économique a permis d'identifier un réseau d'environ 1.800 km de routes
pour lequel un entretien périodique est justifié économiquement. Les travaux financés par l'IDA
seront effectués sur ce réseau en trois tranches de longueur à peu près identiques. L'étude
d'évaluation de l'impact sur l'environnement porte sur les routes suivantes qui constituent la
première tranche de travaux:
- Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria: 73,5 km;
- Tabaram-Badaguichiri: 170,5 km;
- RNIE-Komaka: 55,5 km;
- Foneko-Yatakala: 92,6 kan;
- Gazaoua-Nigeria: 66,9 km;
- Magaria-Nigeria: 61,2 km;
soit au total 520 km.
Il. TACHES DU CONSULTANT
Délimitation du champ de l'étude
59.   Le consultant déterninera la zone d'influence de chaque route, les activités et les impacts
qui devront être étudiés. La zone d'influence comprendra les corridors routiers ainsi que les
zones environnantes où l'influence de la route et les impacts environnementaux directs ou
indirects des travaux menés sur la route peuvent être ressentis sur les milieux naturel et humain.



Paze S o  e
Description des aménagements proposés
60.   La description des aménagements proposés sera basée sur les éléments fournis par l'étude
d'avant-projet détaillé. Elle indiquera les différentes composantes des travaux de façon à faciliter
l'identification des impacts environnementaux. Elle distinguera la phase d'exécution des travaux.
d'entretien puis d'opération de la route.
Description de l'environnement
61.   Le consultant rassemblera. évaluera et présentera les données essentielles sur les
caractéristiques environnementales de l'aire d'étude. Il compilera les données et les études
existantes sur l'environnement physique et socio-économique dans l'aire d'étude. Il tiendra
compte de tout changement anticipé avant que le projet commence. L'inventaire portera sur les
aspects suivants:
(a)    éléments physiques: climat, géologie, géomorphologie, topographie et orographie,
pédologie, hydrogéologie, hydrologie de surface.
(b)   éléments biologiques: faune, flore, espèces rares ou en danger de disparition,
habitats naturels et habitats sensibles y compris parcs et réserves, espèces
d'importance commerciale et espèces au potentiel nuisible, de vecteur ou
dangereux.
(c)    éléments socio-économiques: utilisation et propriété des terres, zones d'habitats,
alimentation en eau et utilisation de l'eau, contrôle de l'utilisation des ressources,
droits d'utilisation, tendances des nouveaux d'habitats, caractérisation du
transport, tourisme, chasse, patrimoine culturel.
Cadre administratif et réglementaire
62.   Le consultant rappellera les réglementations et normes nationales et intemationales dans
le domaine de l'environnement pour les questions relatives à la santé et la sécurité, la protection
de la biodiversité, l'habitat, l'utilisation des terres, etc...Le consultant dressera un bilan de la
capacité montrée par les institutions nigériennes à gérer le présent bilan environnemental ainsi
que leur capacité à gérer les recommandations du bilan pour l'avenir.
Analyse détaillée des impacts
63.   L'analyse des impacts consiste à déterminer la nature, l'intensité, l'étendue et la durée des
changements de l'environnement causés par le projet. Elle doit permettre de juger l'importance
relative des impacts en utilisant des critères d'identification. Elle doit aussi déterminer la valeur
de chaque impact pour la société et pour les gens directement touchés en fonction de critères tels
que la sensibilité, l'unicité, la rareté, l'irréversibilité et la vulnérabilité des habitats touchés par le
projet. Une liste indicative d'impacts est donnée ci-après. La liste sera définie lors de la
délimitation du champ de l'étude.



Pane 3 of 6
(a)    Site du projet: L'identification et l'évaluation des impacts doit décrire comment le
milieu. ses ressources et ses habitats seront modifiés par le projet et comment ces
modifications affecteront les habitudes des populations touchées par le projet:
exode rural et déplacement de population, exploitation et conmnerce de bois,
commerce des produits de la chasse et de la pêche et des produits de cueillette,
changement dans la valeur des terres, perte des terres agricoles et de forêt. perte
du couvert végétal, détérioration ou perte de zones écologiquement sensibles,
impact sur la flore et la faune, impact sur les sites culturels et historiques, effets
sur les ressources en eau à l'intérieur et à l'extérieur de l'aire d'influence,
développement induit.
(b)    Phase de d'étude du projet: Le consultant examinera les modifications dans les
réseaux de drainage naturel, le niveau des eaux souterraines, les plans de
construction y compris les ouvrages d'art et l'assainissement, les interférences
avec les mouvements des animaux sauvages, les troupeaux et les habitants.
(c)    Phase de construction: Le consultant examinera: (i) les impacts résultant des
activités de chantier sur le déboisement, la modification du drainage, la qualité de
l'eau suite à la perte de produits toxiques et à la disposition des eaux usées; (ii) les
impacts liés à l'arrivée massive de travailleurs, au transport de la main d'oeuvre et
des matériaux sur les activités économiques et commerciales, la main d'oeuvre
locale et régionale, les revenus, le patrimoine et la culture des habitants, les
activités touristiques existantes et potentielles; (iii) les impacts liés à la
construction sur la bathymétrie, la topographie, le drainage, la qualité de l'eau
(matières en suspension), la végétation, les comportements des êtres vivants
(poissons, oiseaux, mammiferes) dont l'alimentation, la reproduction et la
migration, les habitats des êtres vivants, l'accès à l'exploitation des ressources
forestières, l'accroissement du trafic lourd; (iv) les impacts tels que glissements de
terrain, érosion des sols, sédimentation fluviale ou lacustre, la stagnation des eaux
dans les zones d'emprunt et les carrières, les déchets de construction, la pollution
de l'air, le bruit, les pertes d'huile et de carburant, les conditions sanitaires et les
risques sur la santé associés à la présence des installations de chantier.
(d)    Phase d'exploitation: Le consultant examinera: (i) les impacts reliés à la sécurité
routière et aux pollutions résultant de l'exploitation de la route; (ii) les impacts
liés à l'exploitation des routes sur l'érosion, la qualité de l'eau, la faune et la flore,
les comportements de êtres vivants, l'utilisation potentielle des ressources du
territoire par les habitants (subsistance sur les produits de la chasse et de la pêche,
destruction des sentiers de pénétration, ouverture de nouveaux territoire); (ii) les
impacts de l'exploitation forestière découlant du déboisement de l'emprise et des
carrières.



Page - c:
(e)    Autres impacts: Le consultant examinera les impacts spécifiques sur la faune
protégée (habitats, reproduction, migration et phénomène d'imprégnation) et à son
exploitation touristique et commerciale; et les effets du projet sur la culture,
l'économie et l'utilisation des terres par les divers groupes d'habitants de la zone
du projet.
Analyse des variantes
64.   Le consultant décrira les variantes envisagées pendant la préparation du projet et
identifiera si besoin est de nouvelles variantes. La variante d'abandon du projet figurera parmi
ces dernières. La notion de variante inclut la localisation du projet, ses caractéristiques
techniques, les techniques de construction et le phasage des travaux, et les procédures
d'exploitation de la route après achèvement du projet. Chaque variante sera évaluée en terme
d'impact, de coût et de faisabilité. L'analyse devra préciser les impacts irréversibles ou
inévitables et ceux qui peuvent être atténués. Les coûts devront inclure le coût estimé des
mesures de protection de l'environnement et être comparés aux bénéfice, y compris ceux
résultant de l'application de ces mesures.
Plan de limitation des impacts environnementaux
65.   Le consultant devra présenter les mesures d'atténuation nécessaires pour réduire à un
niveau acceptable les effets nuisibles ou les risques significatifs associés à la réalisation du
projet. Il devra préciser les actions, les ouvrages, les mesures de présentation et les correctifs qui
doivent être intégrés au projet et les coûts résultants. L'efficacité des mesures d'atténuation devra
être estimée. Ces mesures devront être inscrites ultérieurement dans les plans et devis de
construction et le cas échéant dans les normes d'exploitation.
66.   Le consultant évaluera sommairement la capacité des institutions locales et régionales qui
auront à mettre en oeuvre et suivre les mesures d'atténuation. Le consultant définira les besoins
de formation et ceux relatifs aux aspects institutionnels nécessaires pour mettre en oeuvre les
mesures d'atténuation. Les recommandations pourront s'étendre aux agences d'exécution, aux
arrangements intersectoriels, aux procédures de gestion, au personnel, au budget et au support
financier.
67.   Le consultant présentera les impacts résiduels du projet après la mise en oeuvre des
mesures d'atténuation. L'importance de ces impacts devra être évaluée. Le cas échéant, le
consultant devra envisagé les mesures visant à compenser ces impacts résiduels ou ceux n'ayant
pas pu être atténués. Le consultant devra préciser s'il existe des possibilités de réutilisation des
équipements ou des installations temporaires à des fins publiques ou communautaires. Le
consultant préparera un plan de gestion court et concis qui inclura le plan de travail, l'estimation
des budgets, le calendrier, le personnel et les besoins en formation et les autres appuis nécessaires
pour mettre en oeuvre les mesures d'atténuation.



?aœe O Of 6
Programme de surveillance et de suivi
68.   Le consultant préparera un programme de surveillance pour s'assurer durant les phases de
construction et d'exploitation du respect des mesures proposées dans l'étude d'impact et dans les
plans et devis, des autorisations émises (décret, certificat d'autorisation) et des normes, lois et
règlements. Le consultant pourra joindre à l'étude tout guide ou code environnemental qu'il
recommande d'utiliser pendant la réalisation du projet. Le consultant indiquera la périodicité et la
forme des rapports de suivi environnemental qui seront transmis au ministère chargé de
l'environnement, au ministère maître d'ouvrage et au bailleur de fonds.
69.   Le consultant établira un programme de suivi destiné à observer et à mesurer, sur une
période de temps déterminée la nature et l'envergure de certains impacts du projet, notamment
ceux qui dans l'étude présentent un niveau de risque ou d'incertitude significatif. En particulier,
il proposera une politique de surveillance et d'entretien des ouvrages. Le progranmne définira des
indicateurs de performance environnementale qui pourront être suivis sur une base régulière. Le
consultant précisera la période de temps pendant laquelle seront suivis la suffisance et l'efficacité
des mesures d'atténuation.
III. ORGANISATION DE L'ETUDE
70.   L'organisation institutionnelle de l'étude sera la suivante:
- Maître d'ouvrage: le Ministère de l'Equipement et des Infiastructures (MEI)
- Maître d'oeuvre: la Direction des Travaux Publics du MEI
- services partenaires: le Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un Développement
Durable, la Direction de l'Environnement du Ministère de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Environnement.
71.   L'étude d'impact environnemental sera effectuée conformément aux procédures et
méthodologies définies par la Banque Mondiale et aux réglementations nationales (code
forestier, code de la pèche, code de la faune, code rural). L'étude sera réalisée en parallèle à
l'étude d'avant-projet détaillé, le processus de sélection du consultant étant commun.
72.   Le nombre de personnes-mois est estimés à deux. La durée de l'étude est prévue de trois
mois.
IV. EQUIPE DU CONSULTANT
73.   L'étude sera menée par un spécialiste en écologie/gestion des ressources naturelles avec
l'aide d'un spécialiste en ingénierie routière/hydrologie des sols. Le consultant principal aura une
formation ou une expérience en matière de gestion des ressources environnementales et
naturelles. Une connaissance en écologie et en sciences des sols est souhaitée, ainsi qu'une
expérience en impact sur l'environnement dans le domaine routier. L'ingénieur routier se
concentrera sur les aspects sol et hydrologie, en particulier sur les mesures en matière de contrôle



cape 6 o-- S
de l'érosion et sur la sélection des carrières et aires d'emprunts ainsi que leur réhabilitation. Il
aura une expérienrce dans les travaux routiers dans des pays similaires au Niger.
V. RAPPORTS A PRODUIRE
74.   L'étude d'impact doit être présentée d'une façon claire et précise et doit se limiter aux
éléments pertinents pour la bonne compréhension du projet. Ce qui peut être schématisé ou
cartographié le sera, et ce, à des échelles adéquates: 1/100.000, 1/50.000, 1/25.000, 1/10.000,
1/5.000. Les méthodes utilisées devront être présentées et explicitées. Les éléments fournis
devront permettre d'apprécier la qualité des inventaires. Toutes les sources de renseignement
devront être données en référence. Le nom, la profession et la fonction des personnes
responsables de l'étude devra étre indiqué.
75.   Un résumé du rapport sera préparé séparément. Il inclura un plan général du projet et un
schéma illustrant les impacts, les mesures d'atténuation et les impacts résiduels. Le bilan
environnemental de chaque route se concentrera sur les conclusions et recommandations pour
chacune des tâches défines ci-dessus, appuyées par un résumé des données collectées et les
sources des références utilisées pour l'interprétation de ces données. L'accent devra être mis sur
le plan de gestion des mesures d'atténuation. Les données et informations détaillées devront être
reportées en annexe. Le rapport pourra être organisé comme suit: résumé; description du projet et
des travaux; cadre légal, administratif et réglementaire; données essentielles; impacts significatifs
sur l'environnement; analyse des variantes; mesures d'atténuation; gestion du plan de limitation
des impacts environnementaux et besoins en formation; plan de surveillance et de suivi.
76.   Un rapport intermédiaire sera fourni après un mois pour permettre à l'administration de
dégager les options préférentielles dans le choix des variantes. Le rapport définitif sera remis
dans un délai de un mois après avoir reçu les commentaires de l'administration. 10 exemplaires
de chaque rapport seront fournis au maître d'ouvrage, deux au Ministère de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Environnement, et deux à la Banque Mondiale. Le rapport sera rédigé en français.



RJEPL-BLIQUE DU NIGER
Pa te 1o `i
.init..c de lEconorrmie. dcs lj.er.ccs t du P!n   \l nis;rc -c '.ui,  erit c: -s
Projet de RéhatiU'iza,.or. ns id:ras:. c:ures   l...s;rures
Mliiis:dre de l'I-Ivdrauiique et de l'Environnement
ETUDE D'IMPACT SUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT DU PROJET DE
RECHARGENIENT DES ROUTES 97 ET 89
GAYA-MARGOU ET MARGOU-OUNDITAN
TERMES DE REFERENCE
Décembre 1996



1. Introduction
Les présents te ..es de référence sont produits pour aider à la rêaii1acien de P_
d'irrzac- sur l environrd.ent (EIE   u projet de re.harfrement des routes 9` e: S9 Gava-Mlarzou
et SIarou-Our.ditan. cans le cacdr du Projet de Réliabilitation des Jnfras:.-;.Zrs i PJl,;
Lcs routes 9? e: 39 lon-cnt toute la vallée du Dallol Bosso sud e: 'la Rcse..  Pareec de
Dosso su: une lonzueur. d   S9.5 k-n. E!les sont pa.-.:etes par quatre 3 aon% a:ssmen.ts Fii...ué
Bocove. Dosso er Gava.
Située dans lcs doomaines phyto-géojraphiques soudanicn ç au sud   : caiio-souaaiec
(au nord ). la ré-ion renferme un potentiel agro-forestier  imporant comparé à celui dz
l'ensemble du Nieer. Elle constitue égalemer.t la zone de prédilection des dernières girafes de
l Afrique de l Ouest. e: un refuge pour les animaux sauvages du Parc dc W. notarrument en
période d'dtiauc.
Toute la zonc est peuplée par les ethnies suivantcs: Djemras.  Haoussas,  I'culhs.
Touaregs et Bellas.
Le projet de rechlargcemetit dc la routc Ounditan-Gaya perTnettri. d'une part dc pérenniscr
les investissements consentis, et d'autre part de maintenir un niveau dc scrvicc acceptable pour
les transports routiers et d'assurer la sécurité et le confort des usagers.
2. Objectifs
L'étude d'impact sur l'environnement requise ici aura pour principaux objectifs:
a inventorier et évaluer les impacts environnementaux potcntiels positifs et
négatifs, directs et indirects, immédiats et différés du projet;
* définir et évaluer les mesures de prévention, d'atténuation et dc
compensation des impacts négatifs.
3. Cadre législatif et réglementaire
Cctte partie comprendra un bref exposé des éléments suivants:
* lois et / où règlements nationaux sur les EIE;
* Directive Opérationnelle Banque Mondiale 4.01 "Evaluation de
l'Environnement";



P. ,rocedurcs et methodolocies définies par la quatrième *or.v  -ton de Lome
(manuci de lenvironnement).
Les processus '6a'uation  enviror.aen:aje  scront effectues  aoronnment aux
proc'ures et enéthodow ics do-4 nics dans l;a Di:cctive Ocratiortclic Bax.cuc N[or.iaIc 'D01
'¶vaiuation  Enviror.-.cmentaie"  et la  qutri`n-.e  convention  de  rtomér   ( man-uel de
ienvlrer.ne  .t ) e. en OiDDlcatson des ré lemetations nationales et  r.rernat;o naies de
protec:icn de i` n.-iror.r,n1cn. nota..,ment ie cod.: fores.ier, le code de la cihassc et le code
l'eau.
-. Réalisation dc l'étudc
4.1 Description du projet
L'étude devra décrire les composantes pertinentes du projet à l'aide de cartes à unc
échelle appropriée parnout où ccla est nécessaire ct en incluant Ics informations suivantes
localisation, structurc d'cnseniblc, taille, capacité. emplaccmcnt dcs différcntcs carricrcs ( taule
et capacité ), activités devant être menées avant. pendant et après le projet. calendrier, personnel
affecté au projet. etc.
4.2 Etat initial de l'environnement
L'étude décrira et évaluera de manière appropriée les principales caractéristiques
environnementales de la zone d'étude, notamrment:
. les zones fragiles au niveau des sols et du couvert végétal;
. Ics domaincs classés, protégés;
* lcs habitats sensibles, les parcs et réserves;
a les espéces rares, menacées ou d'importance commerciale;
a l'occupation des sols et les aménagements en cours;
. les caractéristiques socio-économiques et leurs évolutions récentes.
4.3 Dcscription des impacts potentiels
Les impacts possibles seront différenciés selon leur aspect positif ou négatif, direct ou
indirect, immédiat ou différé. Identifier les impacts inévitables et les impacts irréversiblcs I1
s'agira entre autres:
. des troubles et dcs nuisances dus aux travaux dans les zoncs fréqucntécs par la
population et les anilmaux sauvages;



* des risques d'acc.den; avec les girafes notamment compte tenu de la croissaxc- pr-ue
du trafic avec Le développement du tourisme dans la région:
. des atte.ntes au milicu naturel. panicuiércn:.. .a t.  tation. ducs en>x s;cs dc
a.,.s ntlu a*       Srl
*i eléros.o. _es sois :-ae:les par les Jaux dc aluies évacuées de la ca_ssc;
* Je la pollution des eaux par des matériaux solides issus du délava%ic des Fines par les
eau  dJC piUl^S.
L'importance des impacts sera évaluée suivant la réglementation r-n vi-ueur, en for.c,ion
des nornes et des valeurs humaines touchant la qualité de l'environnement et la qualité de vie
des popuiations concernées. A chaque fois que cela est possiblc. les impacts devront c.rc
quantifiés en terme de coùts ct bénéfices envi ronnerncntaux.
4.4 Mesures d'atténuation
L'étude recommandera des mesures de prévention, d'atténuation et de compensation des
impacts négatifs. Il faudra analvser l'impact de ces mesures,. estimer Icur coùt ct lcs critârcs
institutionnels nécessaires à Icur misc en oeuvre. Il s'a,ira cntre autrcs:
a des mesures pour minimiser ou éviter les troubles et les nuisances dus atix
travaux dans les zones fréquentées par les animaux sauvages ct la population;
3 des mesures pour éviter d'abattre ou d'cndommager dcs espèces d'arbrcs
protégées;
* des mesures des protection et de conservation des sols;
* des recomrnandations sur les sites de carrière ou d'aires d'emprunt à utiliscr et
les zones où aucune extraction de latérite ne devra être autorisée;
* des mesures de réhabilitation des aires d'emprunt. Ces dernières pourront
servir dc réserves d'cau serni-permanentes si la population locale Ic souhaitc;
. des mesÙres pour éviter les accidents de la route avec des girafes. Il pcut
s'agir de dispositifs à installer sur la surface de la route de manière à ralentir les
véhicules aux endroits habituels de passage des girafes, ou de panneaux dc



sivna' satnon :z onu de1. a routc.
. des mesur.-s de contrôle de l .rosion et dXim.0iora:icn   s   otoces de ja
e:ram: cor-. - a aiiantation darbres. nota    e:  c.ux eor.s:;: sa nou...;r--
de easz:
. :cs 1Su-r  c _e corriensation d&stinées aux proprîëzairzs d a.rrs _evart -tre
ar--: ,,ers cs :ravau;.
. Rapport
Le rapport Final adevra être concis et sc limitcr aux problèmes environn.rntaux les pius
significatifs. Il sera rédigé en français et comportera en plus uLn résumé non technique. accessibie
au grand public et ayant pour but de l'informer et de suscitcr ses réactions et scs commentaircs.
Le texte principal devrait se concentrcr sur les résultats. conclusions et actions
recommandées, avec lc soutien de tableaux de synthèse sur les données récoltées et des
références appropriées. Les données de détail ou non interprétées dev-,rlt étre présentées en
annexes ou dans un volume séparé.
Les docurnents non publiés utilisés dans l'EIE peuvent ne pas être facilcment disponibles
au public et devront également être fournis en annexe. Le rapport final d'EIE devra être
structuré de la manière suivante:
* Résumé non tcchniquc;
* Cadrc politique, juridique et administratif;
* Description du projet;
. Etat initial de l'environnement;
* Description des impacts potentiels;
*    * Mcsurcs d'atténuation des impacts négatifs;
* Plan de suivi environnemental;
. Annexes.
6. Calendrier et duréc dc la mission
L'étude d'impact sur l'cnvironncment scra effectuée avant lcs études tcchniques dc
l'exécution du projet dc manière à inclure dans la préparation des travaux, toutes les
recommandations en matière de limitation d'impact.
L'étude durera 4 semaines dont environ 3 seront consacrées aux travaux sur le terrain.



7. Profil du consultant
L'étude sera menée par un spécialiste Cri écologieigestion des ressources naturelles f
semaines) avec l'aide d'ur spécialiste en ingénierie routière/hydrologie des sols (1 semaine).
L'in-énicur routier se concentrera sur les aspects sol/hydrologie. en particulier su:' les mesues
cn maucre de contrôlc dc l'érosion et sur la sélection des carrières et aircs  'crn: ainsi ue.-
ieur réhabilitation.
Le consukr, r. ncipal aura une formatiorn ou une expérience en ma:i*re de zestion des
ressources environncmentales et naturelles. Une connaissance en écologie et ern scienczs des sois
est souhaitée. ainsi qu'une expérience en étude d'impact sur l'environne;r.en. da ls !e domaine
routicr. Une bonnc connaissance dc la zone d'étude est nécessairc.
Le consultant cn appui sera spécialisé en in,énierie routière/ihdrologie dcs sols. Il aura
une expérience dans les travaux routiers au Niger et une bonne connaissance dc la zone d'étude.



Cost estimates for detailed enviromnental impact study of the
Gava - Margou - Ounditan road area
Amount (million of CFA)
Consultant's fee, 4 weeks                               2.300
Per Diem                                                0.450
Car rentai                                              0.500
Fuel                                                    0.550
TOTAL                                                   3.800



ANNEX 10
Réunion Banique Mondiale - Or-anisations Non-Gouveniemnentales
dii lcr 1i99cmhrc: l'9f
A  l'occasion de la préparation du Projet de Réhabii'tation des Infrastructures.
l'initiative de la Banque Mondiale de reunir les ONG concernés par l'environnement, a
ete tres appreciee par les participants. Les associations elles-mémes et les populations
avec qui elles ont des contacts. expriment l'envie de faire valoir leurs droits. Il est donc
important que les ONG aient le droit de parole; il est également nécessaire qu'elles
soient actives dans les échanges entre elles. l'Etat Nigérien et la Banque
Pour aider les ONG à intervenir, le besoin a eté exprimé d'élargir le cercle des ONG. et
de communiquer un cadre global des problemes que la BanqLue veut voir évoquer
Lorsque le projet sera plus avancé. une etude tronçon par tronçon devra faire
intervenir les populations. par l'intermédiaire des ONG.
LISTE DE PRESENCE
Nom                Prénom              Strmcture               Contact
Gaoh               Oumarou Kaza        ADRI                    734249
Cadet              Natascha            Africare                723 971
Gourouza           Mamane              ABC Ecologie            722882
Bembello           Harouna             SOS Sahel International  740582
Oumarou            Abdou               FUGPN-Mooriben          724079
Mamane Na-any      Indatou             GAMIA                   722451
Seyni              Abdul-Wahab         Banque Mondiale         735929
Du Crest           Thierry             Banque Mondiale
Bertilsson          Inger              Banque Mondiale



ANN_X .
Cost estimates for Lhe establishment of an environrnental unit of DTP and for its work
carried out under the PRI project.
item                                                   Amount (million of CFA!
Purchase of vehicle, four wheel drive                  30.000
Computer                                                1.500
Printer                                                 1.200
Undulator                                               1.300
Software                                                2.000
Photocopy equipment                                     4.000
Office equipment                                        1.000
Cost of living, PRI field work                          1.200
Supply for office and field work, 4 years               3.000
Miscellaneous                                           1.000
Initial training of two environmental staff: and
Study tours to other African country/countries          5.000
Technical Assistance: On-the-job training, 3xl months:
Fee         US$ 21,000
Travel      US$ 15,000
Per Diem    USS 15,000
Total       US$ 51,000.
25.000
Social scientist, PRI project, total of 28 weeks        12.000
Sensitization seminars for DTP staff
TOTAL                                                   59.000
Admin
C:UNGERDOC
Febnwy 10 .1997 11:26AM



BIBLIOGRAPHEY
Lantran. J. M.; Baillon. J.; Pares. J. NM. (1994). L'entretien routier et l'environnement.
orid Bank.
Roads and the Environment: A Handbook. (1994). Worid Banri Report TW'U 13.
Saadou Maharnane (1 990). La Vegeration des Milieux Draines Nizeriens a l'Est du
Fleuve Niger. These. Faculte des Sciences de l'Universite de Niamev.
Garba Mounkaila (1984). Contribution a l etude de la flore et de la vegetation des
milieux aquatiques et des sols hydromorphes de lUouest de la republique du Niger de la
longitude de Dougondoutchi au fleuve Niger. These. Universite de Niamev.
Millington, S. J.; Tiega. Anada; Newby, J. E. (1991). Biological Diversity in Niger.
World Wide Fund for Nature.
Etude d'evaluation de l'imnpact sur l'environnement des pistes de desenclavement des sites
auriferes (Region du Liptalco Gourrna). Ternes de Reference. (1996). Republique du
Niger.



Paze 1 of 2
PERSONS MIET
Minmsiere de l Equivement et des Inirastructzures
Dr CherifChak-o. M Sinistre de 1 Equipement et des Infrastructures. {tel 73;'>;7)
becretaire General du Mlinistere de 1 Equipement et des Infrastructures
Sevdou Beiidaui. Directeur. Direction des Travaux Publics (DTP)
Ahmed Abani Ousman. Chef. Service Centrale des Etudes. DTP
Issa Ousmane. Chef. Division des Etudes Techniques. DTP
Moumouni Bedari.Ahmnadou, Economist, DTP
Ministere de ' Hydraulique et de l Environnement
Ministre de l' Hydraulique et de 1' Environnement
Laoualv Ada. Directeur. Direction de 1' Environnement. (DE), (tel 733329)
Sani Mahazou. Chef. Serice de Lutte contre les Pollutions et Nuisances. DE
Boubacar Gamatie, Coordonnateur, Unite Technique d'Appui, DE, (tel 72261 3)
Chaibou Mamane, Charge de Programme, DE
Koure Aliou, Directeur Adjoint, Direction du Genie Rural (DGR), (tel 732148)
Ministere de I' Economie, des Finances et du Plan
Halidou Badje, Directeur des Programnnes et du Plan, (tel 72 32 1 1, poste 3550)
Ministere de I 'Agriculture
Yabilan Mamane, Directeur par interim de 1' Agriculture, Chef de Service de
Statistique Agricole
Conseil National de I 'Environnement pour un Developpement Durable (CNEDD)
Sala Assane Amadou, Secretaire Executif de CNEDD, (tel 722559)
Hassane Kiimba, Specialiste en Gestion de l' Environnement, CNEDD
Projet de Rehabilitation des Infrastructures. PR!
Sina Moumouri, Coordonnateur National du Projet
Banque Mondiale
Pierre Nignon, Representant par interim, (tel 735121)
Salifou Mahaman, Charge de Programme, (tel 734966, 735929)
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni, NGO liaison officer, (tel 734966, 735929)
Delegation de la Commission Europeenne
Wilfried Rothweiler, Premier Conseiller, (tel 732360)
Pierre-Yves Baulain, Conseiller Developpement Rural, (tel 732360)



P.\LD
M\lamadou Ouartara. Conseiller en Deveioppernent Durable. (tel 732l101. -09)
C S.4ZD
George R. Thompson. Responsable de Processus. Equipe de Reforme
EconomiquelDeveloppement de. Microentrepiise. (tel 733508)
Mark L. %icGuire. Representant Regional. Svsteme d' Alerte Precoce contre la
Famine. (tel 734120)
Gaston Kaba. Directeur Adjoint. Corps de la Paix. (tel 734686)
Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles. PGKV
Ibrahim Idi - Issa. Directeur PGRN, (tel PGRN 752717. 722952)
Elhadji Maman Saadou. Specialiste des Ressources Forestieres et Fauniques
Projet Utilisation des Ressources Narurelles de Koure. PURYVKO
Gerrit Bosman, Chef de Projet. (tel 734224)
Le Pendu Yvonnick. Consultant Ethologue
U'niversite Abdou .oumouni. iViamey
Maharnane Saadou, Professeur, Faculte de Science, (tel 733072)
ICPRSAT
Niek van Duivenbooden, Senior-Scientist, Soîls and Agroclimatology Division,
(tel 722529, 722725)
Organisations Non - Gouvernementales
Abdou Oumarou, Federation des Unions de Groupement Paysant du Niger,
(FUGPN - MOORIBEN), (tel 724079)
Mamnane Gourouza, ABC Ecologie, (tel 722882)
Indatou Mamane Na-any, Mrne, Groupe d'Appui au Mouvement Associatif
(GAMA), (tel 722451)
Oumarou Kaza Gaoh, Action pour le developpement rural integre (ADRI), (tel
734269)
Natascha Cadet, Mme, Africare, (tel 723971)
Harouna Bembello, SOS Sahel International, (tel 740528)
M. Massalatchi, IJCN, (tel 724006)



