Report No. PIC4675
Project Name                   Niger-Urban Infrastructure     rc N
Rehabilitation Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Urban Transport
Project ID                     NEPA49691
Borrower                       Republic of Niger
Implementing                   Prime Ministry
Agency                         Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
Ministry of Interior and Land Development
Urban communities
NIGETIP (Agence Nigerienne d'Execution des
Travaux d'Interht Public)
Environment Category           B
Date this PID Prepared         February 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       April 1997
Projected Board Date           September 1997
1.   Country Background. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the
world with a per capita GDP of US$220 in 1995 and social indicators
which are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries. Its rapidly
growing population (8.9 million in 1994 with a 3.3w growth rate) is
about half under 15 year old and 809 rural.   Long dominated by an
inefficient public sector, the formal economy depends on uranium, a
primary commodity with poor prospects. Other source of wealth consist of
subsistence agriculture and livestock. The Government has taken initial
steps to improve economic management and to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework, conducive to private sector activity. In
particular, it has taken full advantage of the devaluation of the CFA
franc to restore competitiveness, provide a policy environment favorable
to the private sector, and redirect public resources toward human
resource development, infrastructure maintenance, and the provision of
efficient services to support agriculture and preserve the fragile
natural resource base. In reaction to a military takeover in January
1996, several donors have suspended aid causing uncertainty for the
budget situation and medium term prospects. The Government has adopted
in early 1996 a macro-economic program supported by an ESAF arrangement
with the IMF. Government continued action on key reforms, the rapid
solution to the political transition towards democracy and the
resumption of donor assistance will be key to the success of the
program.
2.   Urban Sector Background. The Government has launched a process to
decentralize responsibilities in urban management to local Governments.
Although this decision was taken in response to political pressure, the
process should help to address urban development issues. Nigerien cities
have developed without control. Their organization result from cutting



up available space in parcels and juxtaposing housing development plans
without planning and coordination, integration with the existing urban
environment, and programming of basic infrastructure. Niger urban
centers have been growing at an average annual growth rate of 5.5
percent. Niamey's annual growth rate is estimated at 10 percent. The
capital, with about 600,000 inhabitants represents 45 percent of total
urban population.
3.   The decentralization process, as defined by the Government, is
complex. The proposed structure involves the creation of 14 regions, 55
districts, 155 counties, 156 urban communities and 618 rural
communities. Regions, counties and communities would become
administratively and financially autonomous. This structure would
coexist with the State administration present at most of the levels.
This complexity and the lack of financial as well as human resources to
operate the structure are likely to hampers its implementation. The
process should start by strengthening the capacity of the 15 most
important urban communities, including Niamey.
4.   To overcome the social effects of the economic crisis which has
resulted in increased unemployment in urban areas, the Government has
established with IDA's assistance a framework to promote labor-based
methods and small and medium enterprises in the execution of small urban
civil works. This framework was initiated under the Public Works and
Employment Project (Cr. 2209-NIR, dated , 1991). An autonomous, not-for-
profit and independent agency, NIGETIP, was created to manage the
execution of works programs. NIGETIP uses streamlined procedures to
speed up project implementation. Since its creation, most donors (Caisse
Frangaise de Developpement, European Union, Gesellschaft far Technische
Zusammenarbeit, the OPEC Fund) have used NIGETIP's services. In 1994,
NIGETIP's portfolio amounted to CFAF7 billion of which 20 percent were
financed by IDA. In 1995, the portfolio amounted to CFAF3.5 billion of
which 13 percent were financed by IDA. The same year, 219 contracts had
been awarded to small and medium enterprises, and 208 contracts awarded
to local consulting firms for the engineering studies or the supervision
of works. 395 small and medium enterprises and 84 consulting firms have
been preselected by NIGETIP. Payment of salaries represent about 22
percent of the amount of civil works contracts.
5.   Objectives.  The development objectives are: (a) to strengthen the
capacity of municipalities to manage the development of urban
infrastructure by improving resource mobilization and planning methods;
and (b) to reduce poverty by improving access to basic urban services,
and using local engineering firms and contractors and labor-based
methods, where appropriate. The project will support this capacity
building program through execution of a program of small urban civil
works.
6.   Description.   The project consists of: (a) provision of technical
assistance to support the decentralization process, to establish
simplified tools to plan urban infrastructure development, to define a
methodology to help urban communities to develop a strategy for urban
development including provision of urban services and mobilization of
resources; (b) carrying out of a pilot operation of integrated urban
development in association with a private property developer; and (c)
-2 -



execution of a program of small urban works including rehabilitation of
urban infrastructure generating revenues.
7.   Financing. The total project cost is estimated at US$26.7 million.
IDA's contribution will amount to US$20 million. Central Government and
municipalities will finance counterpart funding equivalent to US$3.7
million. Financing is sought for the equivalent of US$3.0 million.
8.   Implementation. The Prime Ministry will be responsible for the
overall coordination of the project through the National Bureau of
Coordination (NBC). Because of the large number of institutions involved
in the urban sector, NBC will be responsible for the coordination of
technical assistance provided in the sector. NIGETIP will be
responsible for the execution of the program of small urban civil works,
which will be defined by Niamey's municipality and districts in
consultation with beneficiaries.
9.   Sustainability. Sustainability will be achieved through: (a)
institutional reforms in the urban sector to improve the planning and
management capacities of sector institutions and the mobilization of
resources; (b) management of urban infrastructure by private operators,
involvement of private developers in urban development and consultation
of beneficiaries in the design of small urban infrastructure; (c)
development of the Nigerien construction industry; and (d) execution of
a focused training program.
10. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The
NIGETIP experience and similar experiences of executing agencies in
several sub-Saharan countries have demonstrated that theses agencies are
an efficient way to successfully execute small urban works and, as a
result, promote local small and medium enterprises and labor based
methods. To date, NIGETIP has executed CFAF 5,914 million of works
through the awarding of 239 contracts to 157 small contractors. The
overall share of employment in total works is 26.4w as the wage bill is
CFAF 1,041 million. Seven hundred eighty-eight thousand, eight hundred
fifty-six (788,856) man/days of work have been created with an average
daily wage of CFAF 1,319.
11. Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed project is consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on
1994. The strategy is based on four major building blocks: (a)
addressing long-term human capital (including poverty alleviation) and
natural resource issues; (b) building public and private sector
institutions to promote private sector based growth; (c) increasing
efficiency of public resource management; and (d) supporting actions to
facilitate supply response in the wake of the CFAF devaluation. The
proposed project includes an urban civil works component, a follow-up to
the Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2209-NIR, dated , 1991)
whose primary objective was poverty reduction. The proposed project adds
to this objective the objective of improving management of resources
allocated to urban infrastructure, by improving the quality of
preparation of urban projects and focusing on revenue-generating
investments.
12. Issues and Actions. Before appraisal, the Government should: (a)
-3 -



prepare a methodology for prioritization and appraisal of projects to be
executed by NIGETIP and apply the methodology to define a set of
integrated urban development projects; (b) carry out an ex-post
environmental assessment of small urban works executed by NIGETIP; and
(c) draft a letter of sector policy for the urban sector. During
negotiations, the Government should agree: (a) to draft revised Manual
of Procedures and General Agreement between the Government and NIGETIP;
(b) to key performance indicators; (c) to the letter of sector policy;
and (d) to the carrying out by IDA of a mid-term review at mid-execution
of the project. As a condition for Board presentation, the Government
should ratify the letter of sector policy. As a condition for credit
effectiveness, the Government should: (a) appoint the auditor of the
project accounts; (b) appoint the accounting firm to implement the
project's computerized management information system in BNC; (c)
complete the Project Implementation Plan; (d) sign the General Agreement
with NIGETIP; and (e) submit to IDA the portfolio of urban sub-projects
for the first year.
13. Environmental Aspects. The project is proposed to be rated
category B. The cumulative impact on the environment of small urban
civil works is expected to be positive as sub-projects are very small
scale. The NIGETIP Manual of Procedures stipulates that sub-projects
judged harmful to the environment will not be eligible for execution to
ensure that they will not have a negative impact on the environment. Any
environmental impact will be described in the summary project sheet
prepared by the municipalities. An environmental impact assessment will
be mandatory for all revenue earning projects. The project includes a
component to strengthen the capacity of urban sector institutions to
address environmental concerns and meet the requirements of the coming
legislation on mandatory environmental assessment of all development
projects. The proposed mid-term review will include a post-evaluation of
the environmental impact of the project and formulate recommendations if
necessary for the second half of the project.
14. Participation. (a) Urban development plans: The project will assist
the municipalities to use simplified tools to prepare urban development
plans and apply these tools to a group of cities. These plans should be
discussed with the population concerned. (b) Small urban works: A
process should be established to involve beneficiaries in the design of
sub-projects. The environmental impact of sub-projects should be
assessed in consultation with beneficiaries prior to the decision to
execute the sub-projects and after their execution.
15. Program Objectives Categories. Environmentally Sustainable
Development. Poverty Reduction. Private Sector Development.
16. Benefits. Benefits expected from the urban component are: (a) in
the short term, poverty reduction by creating employment for unskilled
workers which are most represented among the poor and by widening access
of the poor to urban services; (b) in the mid term, an improved capacity
of municipalities to finance urban infrastructure through increase of
revenues generated by sub-projects executed during the project, and a
boost in the local economy due to the multiplier effect resulting from
the payment by the project of expenditures covering mostly local costs,
thus improving the chances of successful implementation of adjustment
- 4 -



reforms launched recently by the Government; and (c) in the long term,
improved planning methods and capacity of municipalities to anticipate
instead of lagging behind uncontrolled urban development. About (to be
completed) person-days of employment are expected to be generated over
the project execution.
17.  Risks. The following risks have been identified:
(a) To mitigate the risk of lack of counterpart funds, the
municipalities will be requested to deposit counterpart funds for
any works contract financed from the IDA credit under the road
component on a project account in a commercial bank prior to the
signature of the contract.
(b) The risk of lack of funds to finance recurrent costs to
maintain urban infrastructure financed under the project will be
mitigated by contracting out their management. Although the project
will assist the municipalities to establish an urban strategy
aiming at increasing resource mobilization, the risk remains
important for largest existing urban infrastructure and will not be
fully alleviated during the period of project execution. Actually,
decentralization including the right for municipalities to collect
their own resources at a level sufficient to cover recurrent costs
cannot reasonably expected to be fully implemented before several
tens of years.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 5 -



