Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2957-NIR
Project Agreement
(Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE NIGÉRIENNE DE TRAVAUX D'INTÉRÊT PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
Dated June 20, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2957-NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1997 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Agence Nigérienne de Travaux d'Intérêt Public 
pour l'Emploi (NIGETIP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
Fourteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but 
only on condition that NIGETIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a Convention entered into between the Borrower and NIGETIP on 
July 3, 1991, as amended, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NIGETIP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS NIGETIP, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Section 2.01.  (a) NIGETIP declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, 
to this end, shall carry out Part A of
the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and public works practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and NIGETIP shall otherwise agree, NIGETIP 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with this Agreement and its 
Convention and, unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
NIGETIP shall select and implement Sub-projects in accordance with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) 
NIGETIP shall exercise its rights under each Works Contract in such 
a manner as to: (i) protect its interests, the interests of the Borrower and of 
the Association; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Convention, and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. NIGETIP shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Convention. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NIGETIP shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning, or waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. NIGETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of this Project 
Agreement and of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NIGETIP shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of implementing 
Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Convention, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NIGETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of implementing 
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by NIGETIP of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Convention.
(c)
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, NIGETIP 
shall participate in the annual reviews and the mid-term review referred to in 
paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the 
Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail 
as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and 
status of the implementation of Part A of the Project; and (ii) following each 
Page  3
such review, promptly take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of 
Part A of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, 
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) NIGETIP shall cause the carrying out, not later than 
June 30 and December 31 of each year, of a technical audit of Sub-projects 
implemented under Part A of the Project by independent auditors selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement and in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.  Said audit shall contain a detailed description of the 
implementation of Sub-projects and the status of procurement performance for 
said Sub-projects, and shall assess the compliance with the rules and procedures 
specified in the Convention; the quality of services rendered by NIGETIP, and 
the efficiency of NIGETIP’s contractual relations with contractors and others 
associated with the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than four months after the end of each audit period, 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this Section, NIGETIP shall cause the 
furnishing to the Association of the report of said audit, in such scope and 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NIGETIP
Section 3.01. NIGETIP shall:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, environmental and public works practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
ensure that the positions of its director general, technical and 
financial directors shall be filled at all times by persons with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
maintain an adequate computerized management information system, 
comprising analytical accounting, acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. NIGETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. NIGETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NIGETIP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
NIGETIP shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) semiannually audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
audit period: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, containing, inter alia, a 
separate section on the fees charged by NIGETIP for its 
operations and an opinion of said auditor on the consistency 
between said fees and NIGETIP’s expenditures; said report to 
be delivered in such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of NIGETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with 
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify NIGETIP of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by 
this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or 
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the 
party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified 
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For Agence Nigérienne de Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour l'Emploi
NIGETIP
Immeuble SONARA
BP 12715
NIAMEY / Niger
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf 
of NIGETIP or by NIGETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Directeur Général, or by such other 
person or persons as the Directeur Général shall designate in writing, and 
NIGETIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each 
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE NIGÉRIENNE DE TRAVAUX D'INTÉRÊT PUBLIC
POUR L'EMPLOI
By /s/ Joseph Diatta
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Grants for Sub-projects 
under Part A.1 of the Project
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NIGETIP shall apply the 
procedures and guidelines set out in the Convention, the Project Implementation 
Plan, and the Manual of Procedures in carrying out Sub-projects under Part A.1 
of the Project, and NIGETIP shall not amend, abrogate or waive the Manual of 
Procedures or any provision thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver, in 
the opinion of the Association, will materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.
NIGETIP shall submit for approval to the Borrower and to the Association, 
each June 30 and December 31, a portfolio of Sub-projects, prepared by 
Municipalities according to criteria specified in this Schedule, including a 
percentage of Sub-projects under Part A.1 (a) of the Project of at least 60%, 
expressed in terms of monetary investment, considering implementation of the 
Project until its completion.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
3.
No Sub-project shall be considered for financing out of the proceeds of 
Page  6
the Credit unless:
(a)
it meets the eligibility criteria specified in the Manual of 
Procedures and, in particular:
(i)
has no negative impact on its social and physical 
environment;
(ii)
involves manual labor costs above 20% of overall Sub-project 
cost; and
(iii)
requires less than 10% of overall Sub-project costs in 
preparation and 
supervision costs and, in the case of 
Sub-projects under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project, has an economic 
rate of return of at least 12%; and in the case of 
Sub-projects 
under Part A.1 (b) of the Project, has an economic rate of return 
of, or is part of a program the economic rate of return of which is, at least 
10%; and
(b)
the Municipality in which the Sub-project is located has maintained 
Sub-projects previously financed under the Credit to the satisfaction of 
NIGETIP, in accordance with provisions set forth in the Manual of Procedures and 
the 
Convention de délégation de maîtrise d’ouvrage.
Terms and Conditions of Grants
4.
The amount of each Grant to be made for the benefit of a Municipality to 
finance a Sub-project shall be determined on the basis of:
(a)
the type of Sub-project;
(b)
the size and financial strength of the Municipality;
(c)
the contribution to be made by the Municipality out of its own 
resources towards the financing of the Sub-project which shall be as follows:
(i)
in the case of Sub-projects under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project:
A.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
of over CFAF 500 
million: 15% of Sub-project costs;
B.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
between CFAF 100 
and 500 million: 12% of Sub-project 
costs;
C.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
under CFAF 100 
million: 7% of Sub-project costs;
(ii)
in the case of Sub-projects under Part A.1 (b) of the 
Project:
A.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
of over CFAF 500 
million: 12% of Sub-project costs;
B.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
between CFAF 100 
and 500 million: 7% of Sub-project 
costs;
C.
Municipalities with actual operating revenues in 1995 
under CFAF 100 
million: 5% of Sub-project costs; and 
(d)
the contribution to be made by the Borrower towards the financing 
of the Sub-projects which shall be as follows:
(i)
in cases where the Borrower initiates the implementation of 
a Sub-project 
under Part A.1 (a) of the Project: 25% 
Page  7
of the Project costs, and under Part 
A.1 (b) of the Project: 15% 
of the Project costs.
5.
NIGETIP shall not enter into a 
Convention de délégation de maîtrise 
d’ouvrage, nor a Works Contract, nor disburse the proceeds of any Grant unless:
(a)
in the case of a financial contribution to be made by a 
Municipality, it has been furnished evidence satisfactory to it that said 
Municipality has deposited said required financial contribution for the 
Sub-project for which a Grant is to be made into the Project Account;
(b)
in the case of contribution in kind to be made by a Municipality, 
it has satisfied itself that said Municipality has delivered said required 
contribution in kind for the Sub-project for which a Grant is to be made; and
(c)
in the case a financial contribution is to be made by the Borrower, 
it has been furnished evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower has 
deposited said required financial contribution for the Sub-project for which a 
Grant is to be made into the Project Account.
Implementation of Sub-projects
6.
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (a) each 
Municipality for which a Grant is to be made shall delegate to NIGETIP, by 
signing a Convention de délégation de maîtrise d’ouvrage, the authority for the 
carrying out of the Sub-project, and assume the obligation to maintain said 
Sub-project; and (b) thereafter, NIGETIP shall enter into a Works Contract with 
the contractor, selected by NIGETIP in accordance with its Manual of Procedures, 
to carry out the Sub-project, which shall include provisions giving it rights 
adequate to protect its interest and those of the Municipality, the Borrower and 
the Association, including, as appropriate, the right:
(i)
to require the contractor to carry out the Sub-project with 
due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, environmental, and 
financial practices;
(ii)
to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, the 
Borrower and the Municipality concerned, if the 
Association, the Borrower or 
said Municipality shall so 
request, the works, plans and construction sites 
concerning the 
Sub-project, and any relevant records and documents;
(iii)
to obtain all such information as the Association, the 
Borrower or the 
Municipality concerned shall reasonably 
request, relating to the 
implementation of the 
Sub-project; and
(iv)
to suspend or terminate the Works Contract upon failure by 
the contractor to 
perform any of his obligations under said Works 
Contract.
