Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2957-NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2957-NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated May 5, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the decentralization process and promote urban development in the 
territory of the Borrower (the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by
 Agence Nigérienne de 
Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour l'Emploi (NIGETIP) with the Borrower ’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NIGETIP 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from donors, grants in an aggregate 
amount equivalent to three million four hundred thousand dollars ($3,400,000) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
grant agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each donor, 
Page  2
grant agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each donor, 
respectively, (the Grant Agreements); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and NIGETIP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or 
(c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any contract to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit 
Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would  otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after 
the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
"BNC" means Bureau National de Coordination,  the Borrower’s 
National Bureau of Coordination, a government unit in the Cabinet of the Prime 
Minister of the Borrower, responsible for coordinating Project activities;
Page  3
(b)
"CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means Franc de la Communauté Financière 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"Convention de délégation de maîtrise d’ouvrage" means an agreement 
to be entered into between NIGETIP and a Municipality, (as hereinafter defined), 
or the Borrower, as the case may, be for the purposes of carrying out a 
Sub-project pursuant to Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Convention" means the Agreement, entered into on July 3, 1991, 
between the Borrower and NIGETIP, as amended on August 21, 1992 as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term 
includes all annexes, schedules and attachments supplemental to the Convention;
(e)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by NIGETIP on 
behalf of the Borrower to a Municipality for the purpose of financing a 
Sub-project (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Manual of Procedures" means the manuel de procédures of NIGETIP as 
attached to the Convention, setting forth, inter alia, monitoring and 
performance indicators for the implementation of Part A of the Project; the 
initial procurement plan for Part A.1 of the Project; sample bidding and 
contract documents; other relevant arrangements and procedures for carrying out 
Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project; a financial management manual, and a model form 
of a Convention de délégation de  maîtrise d’ouvrage; as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules and attachments supplemental to the Manual of Procedures;
(g)
"Municipality" means a commune, within the territory of the 
Borrower, for the benefit of which a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) is to 
be executed or is being executed, as the case may be, under the Project;
(h)
"NIGETIP" means Agence Nigérienne de Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour 
l'Emploi, an association established and operating in the Borrower’s territory 
pursuant to its Statut (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the Association and 
NIGETIP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the cumulative project 
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated January 12, 1990, countersigned May 4, 1993; and 
February 25, 1997, countersigned February 27, 1997, respectively, between the 
Association and the Borrower;
(l)
"Project Implementation Plan” means the Project’s manuel 
d’exécution, the manual referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
agreement, setting forth, inter alia  procedures for the selection of 
consultants and the procurement of goods and works; sample bidding documents, a 
Project implementation time-table; Project supervision and performance criteria 
and other relevant procedures for carrying out the Project; as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules and attachments supplemental to the Project 
Implementation Plan.
(m)
"Special Account" means either one or both of the accounts referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Statut" means the Articles of Agreement of NIGETIP, dated 
September 1, 1991, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules and attachments supplemental to the Statut;
Page  4
(o)
"Sub-project" means a specific development activity under Part A.1 
of the Project, which complies with the eligibility criteria specified in 
paragraph (3) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and 
(p)
"Works Contract" means a contractual agreement between NIGETIP and 
a private contractor for the execution of a Sub-project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) by NIGETIP to meet the reasonable cost of works required for 
a Sub-project and in respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFA Francs two special deposit accounts, the BNC Special Account, 
for purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, and the NIGETIP Special Account, 
for purposes of Part A of the Project, in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
Page  5
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each August 1 and February 1, commencing August 1, 2007 and ending 
February 1, 2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
February 1, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: 
(i) shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, shall cause NIGETIP to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NIGETIP therein set 
forth; and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable NIGETIP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  6
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
under an amendment to the Convention, on terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Categories (1), (3)(a) and (3)(b) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to NIGETIP.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or 
any provision thereof.
Section  3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
for purposes of Part A of the Project, cause NIGETIP to open a 
project account in CFA Francs in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, and thereafter maintain said project account until the completion 
of the Project, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of CFAF 
3,000,000; and (ii) thereafter, deposit semiannually at least the amount 
referred to under the preceding paragraph, or such amount as required for the 
carrying out of the Project and as agreed by the Association in the annual 
reviews referred to in paragraph (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
ensure that contributions by Municipalities with respect to 
Sub-projects are deposited into the Project Account in accordance with paragraph 
(4) (c) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(d)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution, and the contribution of Municipalities, for 
expenditures under the Project, other than those financed from the proceeds of 
the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by NIGETIP pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
Parts B and C of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the BNC and the NIGETIP 
Special Accounts semiannually audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association ;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
audit period, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
semiannual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such audit 
period, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals; and
(v)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
NIGETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
Page  8
(b)
NIGETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NIGETIP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
the Statut has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial 
condition of NIGETIP or its ability to carry out Part A of the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NIGETIP, or for the 
suspension of its operations;
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Grant Agreements providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) (B) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions:
(a)
the amendment to the Convention referred to in Section 3.01 (c) has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NIGETIP, respectively;
(b)
the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account the initial 
deposit referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(c)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have 
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement;
(d)
a portfolio of Sub-projects, to be implemented during six months 
after the Effective Date, has been furnished to, and approved by, the 
Association; and
Page  9
(e)
evidence, acceptable to the Association, has been furnished to the 
Association indicating that NIGETIP’s computerized management information system 
has the adequate capacity for analytical accounting, satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
NIGETIP, and is legally binding upon NIGETIP, in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
the Convention, as amended pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
NIGETIP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NIGETIP, in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minster of Planning
Ministry of Planning
BP 862
NIAMEY  / Niger
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINIPLAN Niamey
5463 NI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Page  10
By /s/ Joseph Diatta
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the  Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Sub-projects
  8,500,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
under Part A.1
by NIGETIP
of the Project
(2)
Equipment and Vehicles
  150,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and 95% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services:
100%
(a)
for NIGETIP under 
   600,000
Part A of the Project;
(b)
for Part A of the 
  1,700,000
Project;
(c)
for Parts B and C of    900,000
the Project
(4)
Training and seminars
    300,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating costs
    350,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and 95% of local 
expenditures
(6)
Refunding of Project 
  1,000,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
  1,000,000
Page  11
TOTAL
 14,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that 
of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, Project-related travel 
and supervision, and salaries for local contractual staff, but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (i) prior to the date of 
this Agreement, and (ii) under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule, in respect of expenditures for a Sub-project unless said 
Sub-project has been approved by the Borrower and the Association in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph (2) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under Category 1 of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, and for goods under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; works under contracts not exceeding 
$250,000 equivalent and services under contracts with: (a) consultancy firms not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) individual consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce poverty in urban areas by 
creating employment, (b) provide Municipalities with skills necessary to develop 
and manage their infrastructure assets; and (c) promote the private construction 
sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Public Works Program
1.
Promotion, identification, appraisal, designing, supervision and 
evaluation of Municipality initiated Sub-projects, and provision of Grants for 
the financing thereof for the construction and rehabilitation of essential local 
public, economic and social infrastructure through Sub-projects including:
(a)
Municipal income generating Sub-projects, including markets, 
slaughterhouses, parking lots, and public transport terminals;
(b)
Municipal non-income generating Sub-projects, including: road 
paving, street drainage, side-walks, and the protection against sand 
encroachment; primary schools, community meeting rooms, and health centers, 
including the acquisition of furniture for said units.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and training for selected staff 
in the Borrower’s central and local administration to improve skills:
Page  12
(a)
in the identification of Sub-projects, including economic analysis 
and environmental assessments for said Sub-projects; and
(b)
in the carrying out of engineering studies and the supervision of 
works.
3.
Strengthening of the local construction industry through:
(a)
promotion and advertisement of the use of local construction 
materials in urban infrastructure works; and
(b)
provision of training to local consultancy firms and contractors in 
planning, supervision and management of the execution of works.
Part B:
Capacity Building
1.
Carrying out of studies for: (a) the review the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations on central and local administration; (b) the modification of the 
budget structure of, and identification of new budgetary resources for, 
municipalities; (c) the restructuring of the Atelier National d’Urbanisme; (d) 
the establishment of standardized methods for urban infrastructure planning; (e) 
the improvement of urban development activities through private sector 
participation, including the carrying out of a pilot-test; and  (f) the 
definition of a methodology for urban development; and the provision of 
technical advisory services and training for selected staff of the Borrower and 
Municipalities.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of maps for 
the Communauté Urbaine de Niamey, and the Commune de Dogondoutchi.
3.
Carrying out of studies, provision of technical advisory services and 
training to selected staff of the Borrower and Municipalities, carrying out of 
seminars and public awareness activities in the area of urban environmental 
management.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff of 
the Borrower, Municipalities and private consultants in: (a) carrying out of 
ex-post environmental assessments of Sub-projects; and (b) the establishment of 
a guide for environmental assessments of small municipal works, including the 
implementation of said guide.
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of technical advisory services to BNC and NIGETIP to strengthen 
their management information systems and their capacity to carry out audits of 
Sub-projects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B, namely that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,100,000 equivalent, and goods may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Sub-projects
Works to be carried out for Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project 
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Manual of 
Procedures, acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract under Part C.1 of this Section estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more for goods, and $250,000 for works, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  14
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services under Parts A.2 
and A.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $25,000
equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the provision of project audits under Part C of the Project, 
for mapping under Part B.2 of the Project, and consultants’ services under Part 
A.2 of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants’ Services for short-term missions of technical 
assistance under Parts B and C of the Project, for the provision of accounting 
and Project management services under Part C of the Project, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Parts B and C of the Project, in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof without the prior 
approval of the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
the supplemental letter of even date herewith, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
Page  15
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, semiannually, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, one month after having furnished to 
the Association the report referred to under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, said report and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of said report and the Associations’ views on the matter.
3.
(a)
The Borrower, NIGETIP and the Association shall undertake a joint 
review of the Project during the first calendar quarter of every year in which 
representatives of the Municipalities shall be invited to participate. This 
review shall cover, inter alia: (i) the progress made in the execution of the 
Project, and a summary review of the reports furnished to the Association 
pursuant to paragraph (2) of this Schedule; (ii) NIGETIP's management 
performance, notably, audit reports according to Section 2.06 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, its adherence to its Statut, and its Manual of Procedures; (iii) the 
performance by NIGETIP and the Borrower of their respective obligations under 
the Convention; (iv) the performance by NIGETIP and contractors of their 
respective obligations under Works Contracts; (v) the performance by NIGETIP and 
Municipalities of their respective obligations under the Conventions de 
délégation de maîtrise d’ouvrage, (vi) an evaluation of the adequacy of 
contributions to a Sub-project, including the percentage of financing and 
NIGETIP’s fee structure; (vii) evaluation of the scope of Sub-projects 
implemented; and (viii) analysis of lists of Sub-projects submitted in 
accordance with the procedure stipulated in paragraph (2) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. The overall performance of NIGETIP shall be measured in terms 
of the performance monitoring indicators set forth in the Manual of Procedures.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower 
shall, jointly with NIGETIP, furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, a 
report on the progress and status of the Project, covering the points to be 
reviewed.
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such 
other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.
The Borrower and NIGETIP shall, not later than September 30, 1999 or such 
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, carry out a 
mid-term review to which representatives of Municipalities shall be invited.  
Such mid-term review shall cover progress made in the implementation of the 
Project in terms of the provisions of subparagraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. The 
review shall also assess the impact of the Project on: (a) the creation of: (i) 
employment, especially for unskilled workers; and (ii) revenues for the 
Municipalities; (b) the environmental impact of Sub-projects implemented under 
the Project; (c) enhancement of municipal administrative capacity, and (d) the 
Borrower’s municipal development program.  The Borrower shall, with respect to 
the mid-term review, take the actions described in subparagraphs 3 (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule.
5.
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project 
coordinator and a Project accountant in BNC, both with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the studies 
referred to in Part B of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the 
time-table set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of the BNC 
Special Account Categories (2), (3)(c), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in the case of the NIGETIP 
Special Account Categories (1), (3)(a) and 3(b) set forth in the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of the BNC Special 
Account to FCFA 125,000,000; and in the case of the NIGETIP Special Account to 
FCFA 800,000,000; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
the BNC Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 
60,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Categories 
(2), (3)(c), (4) and (5)
plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B and C of the 
Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
900,000; and
(ii)
the NIGETIP Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 
400,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Categories 
(1), (3)(a) and (3)(b), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
Page  17
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  18
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
