                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                            APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                  January 20, 2012
                                              Report No.: AB6407

Operation Name                  Environmental Sustainability and Energy Sector (ESES)
                                DPL3
Region                          EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                         Turkey
Sector                          General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
                                (35%);Power (35%);Renewable energy (15%);General
                                energy sector (15%)
Operation ID                    P121651
Lending Instrument              Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                     REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency
                                Undersecretariat of Treasury
                                Inonu Bulvari 36
                                Emek
                                Turkey
                                Tel: (90-312) 212-8256       Fax: (90-312) 212-8550
                                Elvan.ongun@hazine.gov.tr
Date PID Prepared               January 20, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal     January 23, 2012
Estimated Date of Board         March 23, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision       Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                proceed with the appraisal and negotiations.

I.    Country and Sector Background

      The ongoing ESES DPL series is grounded in the development goals articulated in
      Turkey’s Ninth Development Plan while strengthening the framework for long-term
      sustainable growth across the economy and in the energy sector in particular. The
      program supported by this ongoing DPL series has a focus on the energy sector because
      of both the tightening electricity and gas supply/demand balances and the sizeable
      contribution of the energy sector to Turkey's greenhouse gas emissions.

II.   Operation Objectives

      The development objective of the Government’s program supported by the ESES DPL
      series is to help: (a) enhance energy security by promoting private sector clean
      technology investments and operations; (b) integrate principles of environmental
      sustainability, including climate change considerations, in key sectoral policies and
      programs; and (c) improve the effectiveness and efficiency of environmental
      management processes.
III.    Rationale for Bank Involvement

        The proposed ESES DPL3 is the third and final operation in the ongoing series of
        energy/environment DPLs. The series is grounded in the development goals articulated
        in Turkey’s Ninth Development Plan. The DPL series supports the Government’s
        policies for long-term sustainable growth across the economy and in the energy sector in
        particular. The ESES DPL3 program continues to support the Government’s program for
        energy security, energy efficiency and clean energy supported earlier under the 2009
        Programmatic Electricity Development Policy Loan (PEDPL1)1 and the 2010 Second
        Environmental Sustainability and Energy Sector Development Policy Loan (ESES
        DPL2)2. At the request of the Government, DPL2 and DPL3 also support policies,
        strategies and specific measures related to climate change and environmental
        management. The Government has concluded that energy efficiency, energy security and
        environmental issues are most effectively addressed in an integrated program. Such an
        integrated approach is consistent with the energy, climate and environmental goals of the
        European Union (EU) and contributes to Turkey's EU accession process.

IV.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                     ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                       0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                        600
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
Total                                                                                        600

V.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

        The Undersecretariat of the Treasury will be responsible for coordinating actions among
        other concerned ministries and agencies. A number of other agencies are involved in the
        implementation of the program being supported by the ESES DPL series including the
        Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry
        Environment and Urbanization, energy regulator EMRA, the Privatization
        Administration, and the energy utilities.

        The Bank will also review the progress of the program and identify and discuss
        adjustments that may need to be made as it evolves, to take into account the latest country
        developments, stakeholder support, and feasible options for realizing the intended
        development objectives. The review will focus on the impacts of the various prior
        actions and be largely based on the monitoring indicators and the goals of the program.
        At the same time, the overall status of the Government’s program will be monitored to

1
  Programmatic Electricity Development Policy Loan (PEDPL1), Report No. 46050-TR, May 18, 2009.
2
  Second Environmental Sustainability and Energy Sector Development Policy Loan (ESES DPL2), Report No.
54497-TR, May 14, 2010.
       determine whether country conditions and the specific conditions of the proposed
       operation have been met. Bank staff will monitor the progress of privatization and
       related issues.

VI.    Risks and Risk Mitigation

       The ESES DPL program is structured under three pillars: (a) Pillar I - Energy Sector; (b)
       Pillar II - Climate Change; and (c) Pillar III - Sustainable Environment Management.
       There are strong mutually reinforcing links and complementarities among the three
       pillars. Energy sector actions of Pillar I have global, national and local environmental
       benefits.    Climate Change strategy of Pillar II is comprehensive but initial
       implementation action is focused on the energy sector. National and local environmental
       actions of Pillar III have strong synergies with climate change actions and support
       climate change mitigation and adaption. The impact of EU acquis on policy making is
       currently the strongest in national and local environmental areas and is therefore covered
       under Pillar III. The acquis also influence the energy and climate change areas.

       Reform slippage and implementation risks are substantial in spite of the Government’s
       strong overall track record of pursuing key economic reforms and the priority of reforms
       to deal with environmental degradation and energy security challenges and the
       commitment to harmonize with the EU Environmental Acquis. Mitigating this risk is the
       programmatic design of the operation and the strong government ownership of the
       reforms included in the proposed program. There are substantial risks in each of the three
       pillars of the program. Turkey’s strategy to achieve and maintain energy security relies
       heavily on private sector participation, in all areas of the strategy – both in the new areas
       of renewable energy and energy efficiency where substantial barriers as well as in the
       mainstream energy production and distribution areas where the investment needs are very
       high and the envisioned privatization and implementation schedules are ambitious
       notwithstanding the encouraging results from 2008 through early 2011. Turkey’s climate
       change and sustainable environmental management agendas are long term and
       institutionally challenging and their implementation has only recently started.

VII.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

       The social impacts of the ESES DPL program are significant and generally positive. The
       actions and reforms supported under the program are expected to have, overall, a positive
       social impact as they will help: (a) sustain economic growth, which in turn will increase
       employment generation and reduce poverty; and (b) improve the environment, which in
       turn will improve the quality of life and health. Reducing electricity supply-demand
       imbalances will also support efforts aimed at maintaining acceptable levels of electricity
       supply to households, as well as to education and medical facilities. The program
       strengthens the framework for long-term sustainable growth across the economy and in
       the energy sector in particular. This will increase employment generation and reduce
       poverty. Care will however have to be taken to ensure that the poor can afford access to
       the basic energy services.
       The program supported by the ESES DPL series is likely to have significant positive
       effects on the environment and natural resources. By supporting the Government’s
       National Climate Change Action Plan and environmental management and energy sector
       policies, laws and regulations, the ESES DPL program supports Turkey’s efforts to
       strengthen the policy foundations for: (a) contributing to the global effort and addressing
       climate change challenges and mainstreaming climate change considerations in sector
       policies; (b) mainstreaming sustainable development principles and reducing
       environmental degradation; and (c) enhancing energy security by promoting private
       sector clean technology investments and operations. The program enhances Turkey’s
       ability to develop and implement environmental policy more effectively.

VIII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Kari J. Nyman
Title: Lead Specialist
Tel: (202) 458-1469
Fax: (1-202) 614-1569
Email: Knyman@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Elvan Ongun
Title: Acting Deputy Director General, Undersecretariat of Treasury
Tel: (90-312) 212-8256
Fax: (90-312) 212-8550
Email: elvan.ongun@hazine.gov.tr

IX.    For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
