LOAN NUMBER 8146-TR
Loan Agreement
(Third Programmatic Environmental Sustainability and Energy Sector
Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Apr;l           .2012


﻿LOAN N17MBER 8146-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated  AP61    G               , 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC
OF TLRKEY ("Borrower") and I NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOP'1ENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
.iined in :he Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this Financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
naintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. !F:c General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
;.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
mre meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
A_reement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01   T,:. Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred fift3 -five million four hundred thousand
Euros (EUR 455,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02.  .w Borroxer may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03.  .D  Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2 +4. The interest payable by -he Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Ruference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
ew ,ith:tanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
1nr:id when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
S.  T    1.-: ?  mern Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
t*e Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.03.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 11 of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
-2-


﻿ARTICLE IV-REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4,01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.      Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
:nlk is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this A,r.emen.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Borrower's Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.
6.02.  The Borrower's Address is:
3a,cakan Ii k
n,11in.. Nfus:esarligi
Inonu Buivari
.nck - Ankara
Turkey
Facsimile:
(312) 204-7366
6.03.  The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 11 Street, N.W.
"k Ishinton, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
IN-B AFRAD           248423(MCI) or      1-202-477-6391
.n.no.:n. D.C.     64;45(MCI)


﻿AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
orized Representative
Name:
Title:
-4-


﻿SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Proeram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
I.    The Borrower, through TEIAS (which is the transmission system and electricity market
operator), has launched the wholesale day-ahead-market on December 1, 2011.
2.      .e Borrower has amended the Use of Renewable Energy Resources for the Purpose of
E1lctricit' Generation Law No. 5346 by publishing amendment Law No. 6094 in the Official
Gazette on January 8, 2011, which amendment inter alia defines the various renewable energy
resources and provides a support mechanism for renewable energ) resources and incentives for
thC use of domestically produced equipment.
3.     ..I;f Borrower's High Planning Council approved on February 20, 2012, the Energy
Efii.nc Strateg:,, which aims inter alia to decrease the energ  intensity (in terms of GDP per
unit of n   use) of Turkey by at least 20% by 2023 compared to 2011.
4.     The Borrower's Climate Change Coordination Board approved on May 2, 2011, and the
Borrower's 1.\ai5ry of Environment and Urbanization announced in July 2011, the National
Climate C1vne Action Plan, which inter alia establishes an overall implementation plan and
sectoral plans for key sectors in accordance with the priority areas and activities set out in the
National Climate Change Action Strategy.
5.    The Borrower has published in the Official Gazette on June 8, 2010, the Regulation on
Large Combustion Plant for the licensing of new installations, thereby transposing into law
LU Directive 200 11 SO FC on Large Combustion Plants.
6.     ..' Borw er has published in the Official Gazette on April 29, 2009, the Regulation on
2 .rN:: and Licenses to be taken in Accordance with the Environmental Law (which became
.rf::1.   on April 1, 2010) and on February 24, 2010, April 25, 2010 and on August 16, 2011,
amendments to said regulation, which inter alia combine all environmental licenses and permits
required :..r an industrial installation into a single "e-permit".
7.    The Borrower has published in the Official Gazette on October 10, 2011, an amendment
to the Industrial Air Pollution Control Regulation, which inter alia facilitates the privatization of
thermal power generation.
8.     T.i Borrower has published in the Official Gazette on June 8, 2010, the Regulation on
Control of Soil Pollution and Contaminated Sites by Point Sources, which regulation provides
inter alia 'cr control of soil pollution and the determination and remediation of polluted sites.
Section H.   A%ailability of Loan Proceeds
A.     Gecneral. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
-5-


﻿Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Borrower may make N ithdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
Allocations                      (expressed in Euro)
Single Withdrawal Tranche                          455,400,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                       455,400,000
C.    Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out
by the Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
E.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2.    the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F.    Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2013.
-6-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
I      :', e following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentaQe of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principai Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
:nc first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
3o.rower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
- a.i  .ng4. (a) Withdraw n Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
-w - s:ed. as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date                (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
3cgIining August 15, 2020                         6.67%
through February 15, 2027
On August 15, 2027                                       6.62%
2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
PaN munt Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount wiihdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such N irhdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Originat Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
1pplies.
3.    (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as % idra% n and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
-7-


﻿withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b)    Now. ithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-8-


﻿APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1.     "Excluded E.\penditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
D)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
international Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (:)86) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group          Sub-group           Description of Item
112                                Alcoholic beverages
121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                Tobacco, manufacrured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                Pearls, precious and.
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718            718.7               Nuclear reactor . and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728           728.43               Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or si;. ersmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                 Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores an'd
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
C.;rinmption:
-9-


﻿(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that an event has
occurred under Section 7.03(c) of the General Conditions
2.    "General Conditions" means the "International Bank   for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance
energy security, integrate principles of environmental sustainability and improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of environmental management processes, which program is
set forth or referred to in the letter dated February 23, 2012, from the Borrower to the
Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
4.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the categor-
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
5.    "TEIA5" means TOrkiye Elektrik Iletim A.$., a joint stock company established and
operating pursuant to Decree Number 2001/2026 dated February 5, 2001.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
he modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
I.    The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entiretN.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project E%ecution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-10-


﻿5.    I.dragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
m:-.oi:ed to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c)    The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bilI. receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
diLd to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)    The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
7.     :   f:lc ing terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
0o s, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
;c Appendix as follows, %ith the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'1.lig,ble Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
Program' means tho program referred to in the Loan Agreemeni in support of
which the Loan is made."
-11-


