Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCACIL USE ONLY
Rqit No. 12068
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION
AND EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2508-MOR)
JUNE 24, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:12068 MOR   Type:  (PCR)
Title: JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION
Author: MAUPRIVEZ, M.
Ext. :31709 Room:T 9069 Dept.:OEDD3
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Project Appraisal (July 1984)
US$1 - 9.5 DH
November 1992
US$1 - 8.65 EH
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATILONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BRPM      -     Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Miniares
C.OR      -     Cirenterie de l'Oriental
CdM       -     Charbonnages du Maroc
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau
ONe       -     Office National de l'Electricite
PCR       -     Project Completion Report
tpy       -     metric ton per year



FOR OFFICIAL U3E ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washiton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 24, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Note on Morocco
Jer&da Coal Mine Modernization and Exoansion Drolect (Loan 2508-MOR)
Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Morocco
- Jerada Coal Mine Modernization and Expansion Project (Loan 2508-NOR)" prepared
by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was contributed by
the implementation agency of the Borrower. The Completion Report provides an
informative and comprehensive account of Project achievements.
The coal mine expansion at Jerada was undertaken on the premise of
relatively high energy prices, following the second oil shock. Declining coal
prices and geological difficulties made the project financially unsound and
uneconomical. Mine closure has emerged as the most appropriate course of action1
but social considerations have stood in the way of timely Government action.
The project performance is rated as unsatisfactory, its benefits as
unsustainable and institutional development as negligible.
The Bank'. assessment and management of project risks was
mnsatisfactory; the PCR hints that such projects would be better left for the
private sector to handle.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wortd Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICiA  US ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AND
EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 2508-MOR))
TABLE OF CONTA=
Paite No.
Preface  L............................. 
Evaluation Sumary .............              .............. ...  ..                  ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project I-oentity ......*00000 **.......... *.**                                 1
2. Background ..............................*........ ......                         1
3. Project Design *............................ ...*......**.                       2
4. Project Objectives and Debcription ........................                      2
5. Project Implementation             4............   ... ***o.......                4
6. Project Reaults ....        .............................*........                7
7. Project Sustainability .         ................................*..             8
8. Bank Performance   .......................... .........                           9
90 Borrower Performance *******************10
10. Project Relationships .*.......*..........................11
11. Con8ulting Services 8 ............................                               12
12. Project Documentation and Data             ...........................          12
PART II PROJECT REmVEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans                                                             Ta....................................  Table 1
Project Timetable ....         ................................*               Table 2
Loan Disbursements .....                                                       Ta................... .*  Table 3
Project Implementation              ............                               Table 4
Project Costs and Financing            .............................           Table 5
Project Results  ..*............................                               Table 6
Status of Covenants .........          ..........................              Table 7
Use of Bank Resources *        ................................                Table 8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmnce
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MIME MODERNIZATION AND
EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 2508-NOR)
Pr-fg*c
This is the Project Compl-tion Report (PCR) for the Jerada Coal Mine
Modernization and Expansion Project (Ln. 2508-MOR) in the Kingdom of Morocco.
The Loan, made to Charbonnages du Maroc (CdM) in an amount of US$ 27.0
million, was approved on March 21, 1985.  The Loan closed o June 30, 1991,
with total disbursements of US$ 13.5 million, half the original loan amount.
The remaining US$ 13.5 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Maghreb
Departmuent in the MN Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Suimry, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower prepared Part II. Coments received from the Project's
cofinancier, KfW have been incorporated in Parts I and III.
The preparation of the PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the President's Report, legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and interml Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JEW, A COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AND
EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 2508-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Backeround
i.  The preparation of the Project reflected the outlook for oil and coal
prices after the second oil price shock at the beginning of the 1980s. This
prompted an energy policy to substitute domestic coal for imported oil and
coal, in order to save foreign exchange (paras. 2.1-2.3). Also there was a
growing coal market in Morocco and both the Government and the Bank believed
that the existing Jerads coal mine would be able to produce coal at
competitive prices vith other fuels. Major consumers -- the national electric
power company and the cement industry -- had converted their facilities from
oil to coal. Morocco's performance in the mining sector had been good. In
addition to promising coal prospects, a compelling factor in favor of the
project was continued employment at Jerada, located in the eastern part of
Morocco, where there were few alternative employment opportunities.
Objectives
ii.    The Project had two sets of objectives.  First, at the country level,
the project was to (a) support the expansion of coal subsitution for imported
energy, (b) help assure the continued employment in a less-developed region by
efficient plant operating practices and modernization of facilities, and (c)
maintain an appropriate coal pricing policy. Second, at the level of the
Borrower, CdM, the project objectives were to: (a) increase overall coal
production from 800,000 tonnes per year (tpy) to 1 million tpy, (b) modify the
technology used by the company to increase productivity, (c) improve CdM's
organization and mine planning and (d) improve the safety, health and working
conditions of the company.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.    The actual cost of the Project was US$ 82.5 million, 112S of the cost
originally estimated at Project appraisal, or 601 of the revised cost
estimate. (Part III, Table 5). The most critical variance between planned
and actual implementation was the planned cmnstruction of a mine shaft (Shaft
3). The shaft conetruction began when both coal production prospects and the
coal price seemed favorable, but after later developments it became clear that
completion of the shaft's construction no longer was economic. The Jerada
coal mine's production fell far short of projections, mainly because of
unexpectedly poor geological conditions   The production decline, together
with a sharp decline of coal prices, made mine closure the most economic
course of action. In retrospect, it would have been better to arrest the
Project earlier, but for institutional and political reasons the Government
hesitated to face the connected mine closing decision and the Bank was



- iii -
reluctant to insist on it. For a detailed review of the Project's
implementation, see Part I, paras. 5.1-5.6 and Part III, Table 4.
iv.    The Project did not achieve its main objectives because of geological
problems and lower coal prices than anticipated (paras.6.1-6.8). Safety,
health and working conditions improved only marginally. The Project did not
achieve its goal of increasing production to 1 millin tpy or assure continued
employment. Although the Project heiped to postpone the decline in production
temporarily, the economic rate of return on the project is still negative,
mainly due to the decline in production. The geological reasons for the
Project's failure mainly concern low seam thickness, adverse inclination,
cracks and faults, basalt intrusions, dusty coal and high temperatures, all of
which hindered the project from achieving its production objectives. CdM is
not viable and has an annual cash operating loss of about US$ 10 million.
Sustainability
v.    The minimal benefits resulting from the Project are not sustainable,
since the mine should be closed at the earliest possible date (para. 7.1).
The Bank has reviewed the personnel situation of the company and has made a
preliminary investigation of possible measures to alleviate the unemployment
that would result from mine closure. The Bank has indicated, to the
Government, its readiness to assist further in this matter.
Lessons Learned
vi.    The following is a summary of tho main lessons which emerged from the
Project, based on the detailed lessons for the Bank and the Borrower covered
in Part I, paras. 8.4 and 9.3s
(a) Mining projects with difficult geological conditions require risk-
taking entrepreneurship and the flexibility for quick decision making,
characteristic of the private sector. The Bank needs to re-evaluate the
extent to whitlh it should become involved in risky projects, in
particular at a time when commodity prices are volatile (e*.*g energy
price forecasts proved to be too optimistic after the second oil shock).
(b) The Bank and CdM should have insisted on a more rigorous geological
survey and evaluation prior to project appraisal. Also, it would have
been prudent to phase project implementation more carefully, i.e.,
making the construction of a new mine shaft an option which would be
implemented only with prior assurance of sufficient mine production.
Furthermore, the Bank should discuss possible conseque-nces of project
failure with the Borrower and the executing agency management team at a
very early stage of the Projectt reaching an early commitment to actions
required in such a case.
(c) The Bank should have insisted more strongly on the operation of the
mine as a commercial undertaking, rather than as a component of the
Government's social and regional development policy, insisting that the
Government refrain from interference with the company's financial
management and clearly defining the respective role of the executing



- iv -
agency In terms of operational viability and productivity, and of the
Government in terms of social objectives, constraints and obligation.
During Project's execution, the Bank should have applied management,
technical, financial and economic evaluation criteria more consistently,
and discontinued its support for the Project as soon *s the expected
economic rate of return became marginal. But the Bank, by continuing to
support the Project, provided tho wrong signal to the Government, which
may have continued its support of the Project because of on-going Bank
support.
(d) The Government should ask and accept Independent expert advice in a
risky Troject   The Bank shuuld maintain an indepeadent judgment on the
project by reviewing such expert advice and should formulato its own
appreciation of the situation through field visits. The reliability of
the consultant's recommendations should be assessed on a systematic
basis during project implementation through discussions with Government
representatives and the executing agency management and executives.
(e) The Government should not be involved with Industrial activitios
which are commercial by nature requiring quick decision-making, which
usually is not consistent with the operation of a public sector
bureaucracy. Por example Cdl should have been able to make a decision
on mine closing and a related action plan several years ago. The
Government should be geared to provide assistance for solving social
problUem _onnected with a mine closure.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AND
EMPANSION iXOJECT (Loan. 2508-MOR)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW PROK BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITS
Name          s  Jerada Coal Mine Mode.nization and
Expansion Project
Loan Number   s  2508-NOR
RVP Unit      s  MN
Country       s  Morocco
Sector        2  Energy
Subsector     I  Coal Mining
2. BACKGROM
2.1   After the second oil price shock in the early 1980., the Moroccan
Government's energy sector objectives centered on developing local energy
resources to reduce dependency on energy imports. The Government took
lmediste action to (a) improve oil and gas exploration (b) study the
feasibility of utilizing oil shale, Morocco's only major energy resource and
(c) expand production of the Jerada coal mine, the only mine producing coal in
the country and In North Africa. At the time, Morocco appeared to be a
particularly promising case for energy import substitution. The country had
become highly dependent on imported energy and its economy wa relatively well
developed, with good economic growth prospects. The country's own energy
resources, were either scarce (oil, gas and coal) or of uncertain economic
viability (oil shale); nevertheless, local and foreign experts considered them
viable alternatives for imported energy. The Bank supported the Government's
energy sector development policies with loans for cil exploration, oil shale
engineering, and the Project under review in this report.
2.2 Consistent with the Government's energy strategy, the Project supported
the substitution of local coal for imported oil. There was a growing local
coal market and it appeared that the existing Jerada coal mine would be able
to produce coal competitively. Potential customers of Jerada coal, the Office
National d'Electricit6 (ONE) and the Cimenterie de l'Oriental (CIOR), had
converted their plants from oil to coal. There was also the belief that high
oil prices would assure sufficiently high international coal prices to allow



- 2 -
competitive operation of the Jerada mine. The Government was to increase the
price of the coal Jerada produced to the level of opportunity coste of
imported coal. An increase of mine output Wve to facilitate eff$ct.vo
utilization of the Jorada power plant, meet other customers' needs, and reduce
the mine's unit production costs.
2.3 The macroeconomic impact of the Project was also considered to be
favorable gad consistent with the country's overall economic goals. The
Project was to contribute to foreign exchange savings through the substitution
of oil imports and was to maintain employment in an aroa of eastern Morocco,
with low employment prospects. Finally, Morocco had a relatively good record
in mining performance.
3. PROJECT DESIGN
Conceation and Justification
3.1    The conceptual foundation of the Project appeared to be sound.  The
Jerada mine was the only coal mine in the country.  Its operations were
proven, and coal reserves appeared to be sufficient. The Project called for a
concentration of operations with a relatively modest and apparently feasible
expansion of production. It was a significant reduction from an earlier
scheme of developing a new mine (Siege VI), a much more ambitious project.
Risks
3.2     At the time of project appraisal, the Bank mad CdM considered
geological risks small, due to knowledge of the coal deposit from existing
operations; unfortunatoly, geological conditions in the new area turned out to
be worse than in known areas (pars. 5.3). The Project addressed potential
geological risks through its component for an exploration drilling program and
the requirement for the satisfactory completion of drilling and engineering
prior to execution of the contract for shaft-sinking. The Project took
account of technical/economical risks connected with capital-intensive
mechanization of underground mining by restricting mechanization to a small
number of longwall units after an extended test period1. Otbor equipment
supply components of the Project were of a less risky nature. The Project was
to minimize managerial risks by introducing, during the Project's preparation,
improvements in management and organizational structure. In fact, prior to
the Project, CdM was separated from its BRP parent organization, to allow
more efficient management with greater financial responsibility. The
inclusion of a tecbnical assistance component in the Project was also an
important element for reducing managerial risks. Financial risks were
considered to be low by the existence of an adequate local market and the
adoption, by the Government, of a coal pricing policy based on opportunity
costs of imported coal, which were sufficiently high at that time to protect
the mine and the Project.
I A pre-fdentification mission of September 1981 rejected the Project at that stage because the
proposed mchanization as Insuffiefently tested.



- 3 -
Iggget gf Prolect DesRia gn Pro1ect Performance
3.9   The sufficiently faworoble geological conditions in the known areas of
th. min, combined with the strorq assumption in project design that these
conditions vould occur In prospective production areas were a significant
feature of the Project's d-eign. Ueing this assumption as a basis for
decision-making had a serious impact on Project results, Unfortunately,
mining conditions in the new areas turned out to be coniaderably worse than
anticipated at appraisal sad after the original evaluation of the additional
drilltngS. Concerns about the geological nature of the deposit came to the
forefront only after mining in the first area fully prepared under the Project
showed unsatisfactory results$. This was during the period 1987/88, after
CdM already had made the decision to go ahead with construction of Shaft 3
bated, in rettospect, on an interpretation of drilling results which did not
sufficiently account for the serious geological problems later discovered
(para. 5.3). Also, the belief that better mine planning and a more rational,
less dense grid of roadways could offset geological risks, proved to be an
error'.
4. *POJEICT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.1    The project had two sets of objectives.  First, at the country level,
the project was to (a) support the expansion coal substitution for oil by
increased domestic coal production, (b) help assure the continued employment
In a less developed region by efficient operating practices and modernization
of plant facilities, and (c) ensure the maintenance of an appropriate coal
pricing policy.  Second, at the level of the company, CdM, project objectives
were to (a) expand coal production at Jerada from 800,000 tpy to I million
tpy, (b) modify the technology used by the company in order to increase
productivity, (c) improve CdM's organization and mine planning and (d) better
the safety, health and general working conditions of the company.
4.2   In order to achieve the above objectives, the Project contained the
followtig components: (a) an exploration drilling program to prepare
underground development work and shaft sinking; (b) underground development
work to prepare future mining areas and to simplify existing mining areas; (c)
the sinking of an additional vertical shaft to maintain production capacity of
2   in their report of August 1986, C states that the dritting confirmed appraIsal aessmptlona and
that relativety good mining conditions could be expected in western parts of the mine.
a   Enven though the development of new mining panels in the north-central part of the deposit had
demonstrated the existence of apparently acceptable dfnfno conditions, the coal extraction units (longwalls)
encuntered basalt intrusions and other geological irregularities which led to abandornement of sowe of the
reserves and low productivity and high cost xtraction of the remaining reserves In that area.
4 Oue to much less recmmnissance work and the lack of medfum-term mine planning in Cdiis pre-
Project operatfonr, the old network of roadways was dense and erratic. It was believed that more
exploration drilltng, accelerated advancement of roadmays and systematic medium-term mine plaming, all
introduced under the Project, woutd significantly sieplify the miness network of roadways. In reality, the
new network had to be constantly adapted to the channg geology and therofore looks very similar to the old
anm.



- 4 -
thc single mlne after completion of the Project and th. depletion of CdU'
saller mines; (d) the  installation of underground and surfa-e equipment to
increase officiencw, production capacity and to improve safety and healths and
(a) technical assistancu to CdH.
5. PROJECT INIMNL=RTITIO
.1  At the project completion date (June 30, 1991), the implementation of
about 75 2 of the Project's original scope had taken place, at a cost of US$
82.5 million, or 1122 of the original appraisal estimate (602 of the revised
cost estimate). The most critical variance between plannd and actual
Implementation is in the construction of the new mineshaft under the Project,
Shaft 3, which was abandoned after it had become clear that its completion was
uneconomic. The mtne's production fell far short of projections, mainly
because of poor geological conditions and related problems in project design
and implementation. The unforeseen production problem, together with the coal
price decline and the inability of Cdt to adjust its operations, made mine
closure the most economic course of action. In retrospect, it would have been
preferable to arrest the Project earlier, but for instit4tional and political
reasons, the Government hesitated to face the connected mine closing decision,
and the Bank was reluctant to insist on it.
The Shaft 3 Construction Issue
5.2  At project identification, sad during much of projoct preparation, the
construction of a new mineshaft was not foreseen. Shaft 3 became a project
component after a feasibility study, which in hindsight, was based on
insufficient exploration data and engineering to support its construction.
The Bank had insisted on several precautionary measures but all of them failed
to prevent the decision to go ahead with shaft construction. First, the
Borrower was asked to carry out a supplementary studr of the Shaft to
demonstrate its necessity and economic justification . The study concluded
that the shaft would be absolutely essential for extending economic mine
operation beyond 1990, that it was the least-cost solution, and that its
implementation was urgent in order to avoid a drop in mine production.
Secondly,. CdM did esploration drilling as part of the Project and presented a
report on the results, along with their evaluation for more detailed planning
of mining in new areas; this evaluation covered the zone around and beyond the
location of Shaft 3*. The report indicated that reserves were adequate and
that mining conditions In the new areas were relatively favorable, allowing
some mechanixation. Thirds in February 1987, when a Moroccan delegation
visited Washington, CdM submitted a report on the engineering of Shaft 3,
together with an acceptable workplan for its construction. Cdl thus was in
compliance with the loan covenant regarding the execution of the shaft
5 Etude Justtf catiw du Pufts 111, August 1985.
p Rapport wr to D04toppsment des ExploItations des assmins Sud et Centre- Los Raccords avec le
Puits II et tour Extenson vers l'Ouest, Charboriaes du Naroc, AuAust 1986.



- 5 -
construction'. In addition, due to CdM's production problems, which had
already become apparent at that time, the Bank had requested, a a fourth
precaution, a re-evaluation of tho economic benefits of constructing the
shaft. The study concluded that despite lower production and coal price*,
the construction still would be justified. However, the rlne's output
continued to decline. In 1989, BIM re-examined the geological evaluation of
drilling in the area around Shaft 3 and found that previous conclusions were
erroneous. They found much lover reserves and, more importantly, mining
conditions that were considerably nore difficult than previously indicated.
There was a change in CdM's management and the new management come under
BRPM's control. Expectations were that the new mansaement would halt and
reverse the production docline. After a further drop in production, the Bank
communicated formally to the Government, In January 1990, that the preferred
action was to discontinue the Project and close the mine as soon as possible.
However, given the serious social consequences related to such a decision, the
Bank was also willing to support the Project further, with the condition that
the Government implement an appropriate action plan to reduce costs and assure
CdM's financial viability. Due to the unsatisfactory economic viability of
the project, RfW did not finance Shaft 3.
The Action Plan Issue
5.3 In February 1990, a joint Bank/IfW mission examined a draft aetion
program prepared by an inter-ministerial committee. The main components of
the plan were to reduce personnel by about 25 1, to transfer all debt and
social charges to the Government, and to assure approplate financial liquidity
of CdM for efficient operation. CdM were to maintain a production level of
620,000 tons per year. While, in principle, the proposal appeared acceptable,
there was a lack of clarity In the defluition of some components and an
absence of concrete lmplementation steps. In Noy 1990, the Bank, in
consultation with KfW, notified the Goveriment that it would suspend
disbursements within 30 days If it did not take appropriate steps for
clarification and implementation of the plan. Further correspondence led to
extending the date of suspension, but the Government was not forthcoming in
making the necessary clarifications and taking the additional steps required.
Therefore, on August 7, 1990, the Bank and RfW suspended disbursements.
Meanwhile, the continued drop in production made it clear that continuation of
mining ope? £tions was less and less justifiable. Finally, the envisaged Action
Plan was no longer an acceptable solution, since the cash cost of production,
even after restructuring and elimination of redundant staff, far exceeded the
sales price of coal and the opportunity cost of energy.
7 Loan Agreement, Sectfon 3.02 (a). The Snk's ogroemont fs recorded In the Afd-Nemore of February
6, 1987.
a  The study was cencted by Cdl, with considrebte assistance from a consultant nd the Bank.
9   KfU would have bean ready to suspend dlsbursoments olroady fn 1989, but the lank - reluctant
because it first wanted to givo the Borrowr a chance for appropr1ato actions to lapfrve productfon.



-6-
The Mine ClouinU Issue
5.4 In 1991, the Bank and KfW concluded that completion of the Projecu (i.e.
equipping Shaft 3) and continuation of the mining operatione were no longer
justified economically. In June 1991, before the closing date, the Bank
formally co¢municated to the Government that it would not be able to lift
suspension of disbursements, unless the Government ronounced the decieion to
equip the shaft and started to prepare a program for orderly closure of   e
mine. The Bank offered assistance for social measures and possible
development of alternative economic activities, indicating Its readiness to
increase the loan amount of an envisaged P8RL 1I by US$ 30 million for this
purpose. The Government did not accede to this offer. On November 27, 1991,
the Bank notified the Government that it had cancelled the remaining
undisbursed portion of the loan amount, US$ 7.5 million. The Bank had
previously cancelled US $6 million based on a revised financing p'an°.
Therefore a total of US$ 13.5 million, or 502 of the total loan, vas
cancelled. KfW accorded a loan of DM 40.0 million which later, in agreement
with the Moroccan Government, was reducad to DM 5.5 million. This amount was
mainly used for downpayment for equipment supply and it is expected that this
downpayment will be fully reimbursed by the supplier. KfWi', final loan will
bo reduced to about DM 1.1 million.
Critical Decisions in Project Imnlementat&ou
5.5 The decision of 1987 to go ahead with shaft construction was justified by
the production level and the price of coal at that time. While lower than at
appraisal, the Project's economic return still appeared acceptable. CdM
claimed that the drilling results showed no reason to believe that coal
reserves would be insufficient or minuig conditions significantly worse than
anticipated. In retrospect, only major differences in project design could
have reduced the risk.
5.6   The Government, in 1989, after re-interpretation of the exploration
drilling, could have taken the decision to implement a drastic action program
to restore financial viability of the Company, or the decision to arrest the
Project and prepare closing of the mine. The Government most likely did not
make the first decision because it wanted to give the new management a chance
to improve the company's performance. The Government probably hesitated to
take the second decision because of its serious social consequences. With
some delay, the Government made a decision on an action program in February
1990; however, the plan was never implemented due to internal disagreement
about the financing of Cdfl's deficit sad the political impact of personnel
reductions.
10 tUSS 6.0 millifn were cancelled from the Bank's loan because Cdl decided not to select the
lotet evatuated bidder for the shaft equipmnt and to utilize alternative financing available frm KfU.
Cdg made this choice because they wanted to get the best qality equipaent nd expand their finncing base.



-7-
6. PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Country Objectiveg
6.1   Coal Substitution.  The Project had only a minor Impact on the enrgy
sector and the national economy. The modest coal production increase which
resulted from the Project (as compared to the "without* scenario) helped to
save about 400,000 tons of coal imports during the period 1985 to 1991.
However, the impact on foreign exchange savings was negative. The foreign
cost of the Project was about US$ 35 million, more than twice the not foreign
exchange savings due to the lower coal imports of the period 1985 to 1991X1.
6 2     Continued Employment at Jerada. Employment at Jerada continued at a
constant level during the implementation period of the Project. However, due
to declining coal output drastic reductions of the labor force will be
necessary to reduce financial losses (para. 7.1).
6.3    Maintenance of Appropriate Coal Pricing. According to a project
covenant, the Guarantor was to ensure that the price of coal was at least 85S
the opportunity cost of imported coal during the Project. The Guarantor
complied with this covenant. Unfortunately, the international price of coal
decreased significantly during the project period, and the coverwot could not
provide the financial security expected at appraisal.
Achievement of CdM Obiectives:
6.4    Expansion of Production to 1 million tpy. The Project did not achieve
CdM's coal production objectives. At appraisal, Siege V, the mine section
where all future production was to take place, was producing at a rate of
350,000 tons per year (other mine sections, at that time, contributed another
450,000 tons per year). Mostly due to the Project, production from Siege V
increased temporarily to about 700,000 tons per year. Today, at 500,000 tons
per year, production is still significantly higher than without project but
due to geological conditions it will diminish until full closure of the mine.
6.5 Improved Mining Technology and Productivity. The project made some
improvements to critical underground mine equipment for ventilation,
compressed air supply, material transport and partial mechanization of coal
extraction, all designed to increase productivity and output of the mlne.
Generally, the implementation of these components took place on time and
within budget12. While these components could not prevent the ultimate
decline in production, the decline would have been greater without them.
The Project also modified the coal preparation plant. While the original plan
was to debottleneck the screening section, this was changed during project
II  Based on a foreign cost of about 45 St ci  Morocco minus 10 S/t foreign exchange In the
variable cost of production.
12 One variance was the umrber of longwalls which ha" been instatled for partially mechanized coal
extraction; instead of the planned four unite, only two were instatled. In view of the deteriorating
geological conditions, this decision was correct.



execution to the addition of a fine coal-washing section. The change probably
was justified, although some problems with meeting coal product specifications
made marketing more difficult'.
6.6    Improved Safety, Health and Working Conditions.  Overall, safety,
health and working conditions improved only marginally, if at all. CdM
maintained basic*lly the same accident rates and silicosis incidents, while
working conditions in some areas of the mine improved through bettor
ventilation.
6.7     Improved Cdl Organization and Management.  After the Initial
strengthening of Cd4, introduced as part of the Project,"' the company
continued to make organizational changes and appoint new key middle-level
managers. In addition, CdM used the Consultant's services to assist them in
better planning, preparing and organizing the underground production,
maintenance and service functions .  Finally, in 1989, the Company's top
management changed. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the first and
second management teams are discussed in the sections of this report on
Borrower performance (paras. 9.1-9.3).
Economic sad  _inancial Im&e_ t
6.8     The economic impact of the Project is difficult to quantify, because
the continuation of mine operation is no longer justified finan4ially and
economically. A revaluation of the economic rate of return under the
assumption that the mine would close at the same date in the "with" and
"without" cases, indicates a strongly negative return (Part III, Attachment to
Table 6). Financially, CdM now has an annual cash operating loss of about US$
10 million.
7. PROJECT SUSTAMNABILIT=
7.1    The principal benefits resulting from the Project are not sustainable,
since the mine should be closed at the earliest possible date. Technically,
the lifetime of the mine and the Project in its present configuration (i.e.
without equipment for Shaft 316) could continue to about the year 2000 or
beyond, initially at the present level of production and then gradually
declining to about half the present level or less. However, on an economic
t  The middlings had to be blended with Imported coat in order to be acceptablo for the power plant.
Had the quality of the middlings been acceptable without blending, a major portion of the irports would
still have been necess ry to satisfy demand.
4 At negotiations, Cdl presented a plen for strengthening management of the mine, which was
subsequently iuplemented.
15 To this effect, experienced operation engineers of the Consultant stayed for training purposes
over an extended period at the mine, as pert of the technical assistance contract financed by the SBnk.
16 In case the Shaft would be equipped, the technical lifetime would be longer, but financial
losses would be mich higher.



- 9 -
basis, such an operation would not be viable. The Bank ha reviewed the
personnel situation of the company and made a prelimina7y investigation of
possible measures to alleviate the unemployment problem" that would result
from mine closure. Within the next five years, the Company's personnel can be
reduced to about 502 by normal cnd early retirement, by the transfer of
silicosis cases to the health insurance scheme, and by non-renewal of
contracts for migrant workers from different parts of the country. A small
portion of the remaining half could probably find employment in the regional
economy, in the agricultural, artisanal and commercial sectors, with the
assistance of compensation payments. For many of the workers, however, it
vill be necessary to (a) develop plans for retraining and transfer to other
regions, (b) establish major new regional development programs, and (c)
provide suitable unemployment assistance. The Bank has indicated, to the
Government, its readiness for assistance In these matterse'.
8    BANK PERPORMANCZ
8.1   The Bank's strengths in project execution were (a) its provision of
advice to CdM and the Government throughout the project cycle, (b) early
warnings of the Project's problems during supervision, (c) the preparation of
updated financial projections, (d) a re-evaluation of the costs and benefits
of the Project and (e) its recommendations for an action program to address
the major problems of the Project and CdM, and ultimately, closure of the
mine. The Bank often mediated between Cdg and the Government and among
different ministries within the Government. The Bank's involvement wa also
instrumental in securing co-financing for the Project.
8.2  The Bank's performance also had several weaknesses.  At the project
preparation stage, the Bank did not sufficiently appreciate the risks and
appraised the Project before the drilling campaign was completed. The Bank's
coal price projections turned out to be too optimistic and the Bank did not
see the gravity of the geological risk. The Bank could not provide detailed
technical advice on the feasibility of the mining plans presented by CdM, as
they were based on the interpretation of a large volume of data from the
mine's operation. The Bank had to depend to a great extent on the
Consultant's advice and CdM's views. In retrospect, it seems that the Bank
should have been more prudent in accepting the production forecasts and mining
plans of CdM and the Consultant. Often the Bank could not achieve timely
implementation of its advice. In the critical end-phase, the Bank could not
achieve sufficient consensus among the different parties involved for
implementing a meaningful action plan. Possibly the Bank may have been too
accomodating, allowing CdM to vacillate in its decision-making on important
issues.
8.3   The main lessons the Bank learned through the Project are the following:
17 Study carried out by an expert from Charborages de France in the framework of the Bank's Numn
Resources sector work.
18 However, no formal decisfon to scale down productfon and close the mine ha been taken by
Borrower and Govermnent. In fact, during June 1992, the sorrower, tried to obtain alternative German export
financing, but the request was rejected.



- 10 -
(a)   Thi tgpe and the timing of a project are important considerations.
Mining projects with difficult geological conditions are inherently
risky. The risk can be significantly increased through poor timing.
For example, an energy project conceived during the second oil shock
ran the risks of not being a very high priority in the long-run
because of over-optimistic price forecasts. The Bank needs to re-
evaluate the extent to which it should become involved in risky
projects based on speculative international prices. Such projects
are probably much better suited for the private sector, which can act
more flexibly and faster to overcome unforeseen difficulties.
(b)  The impact of natural conditions, which cannot be changed, such as
the geology of a coal deposit, can be disastrous, and no project
should go ahead without a rigorous assessment of the corresponding
risks and an appropriate project design. For interpretation of
exploration results in difficult terrain, more than one expert should
give an opinion at a very early stage of the project. Based on the
various opinions, there should be a decision to drop it entirely, or
proceed cautiously by excluding risky components, or design very
stringent safeguards. One option would be to have a Technical
Assistance Project, or a PPF, to ensure that the exploration work was
eompleted correctly before the design of an invesLment project.
Another option would be to adopt a phased implementation to reduce
technical risks. For example, it may be essential to assure that
certain production levels are achieved before proceeding with shaft
sinking. If the shaft construction does not prove to be economic,
the rest of the Project should be economically viable on its own.
Also, the Bank should discuss the risks and possible consequences of
project failure with the Borrower at an early stage of the project,
with full understanding of and early commitment to actions required
in such a case.
(c)  The Bank should have requested from the Government at the outset of
the Project more autonomy for CdM and agreed on actions for events it
anticipated potential risks were to materialize.
9.  I2WE2  PERFORMANCE
9.1      Cdl had a change in its management during the project (in 1989) and
the review of performance in this section will make the distinction "first
management" and "second management." The main strengths of the first
management were professional and managerial competence coupled with action
ori ntation and willingness to take new approaches and risks, as particularly
demonstrated during the Project's design and early implementation phase. The
Implementation of project components, including difficult tasks such as the
procurement and execution of work contracts, all executed by the first
management, presented no major problems. Cdl employed staff resources
efficiently. The second management's main strengths were its experience with
exploration and its conservative approach. The Government's main strengths
were well-defined responsibilities among its agencies, and transfer of
considerable authority to CdMl's management, at least during the early part of
the Project's implementation phase.



- 11 -
9.2  The main weaknesses of CdN'a first management were the negative sides of
their strengths; they made some changes and certain actions too fast, without
a sufficient assessment of the risks. The second msnagemnt's main Weakness
was the lack of own initiative for action, or too much reliance on Government
decisions. Both management teams tended to utilize the Consultant too much
for backing up their own decisions, which often Were based on socio-politicol
considerations, rather than being completely open to neutral advice. The
Government's main weakness, as demonstrated during the later project
implementation phase, was its inability to arrive at a firm decision and
implement it.
9.3  The main lessons learned by the Borrower, through the Project, are the
following:
(a)   For Cd. The company should seek and accept independent frank expert
advice at every state of the project. Risk management and financ"il
business decisions should be the prime concern of the Company and should
not be shared with government agencies. Reliance on Government
assistance does not further the Project and is likely to be
counterproductive. Business and politics should be kept separated to
avoid a deadlock on decisions. The Company's role should be to make
business decisions on technical and economical grounds only. Probably,
social and political implications will and should be considered, but
these should be referred to the appropiate authorities.
(b)   For the Government.  The Government should not be involved in Industrial
activities which are commercial by nature and require quick decision and
action, which often are not consistent with the nature of the public
sector and its bureaucracy. For example, CdM should have been able to
make a faster decision on mine closing and a related action plan. A
simple and clear partition of responsibilities within existing
organizational structures of the Government should be maintained; full
consensus within a committee takes time or may never be achieved. If
necessary, a small special unit with full authority for implementation
of exceptional tasks, such as the closing of a mine, should be created.
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
10.1 The relationship between Bank and CdM, as well as that between Bank and
Government were good throughout the Project. The Bank tried to accomodate the
views of both CdM and the Government and to mediate in case of differences.
While the different parties were not always in agreement, there was always a
friendly working atmosphere.
10.2 There was also a good relationship with co-financier MgW, in particular
during the later phase of project Implementation. Close cooperation was
maintained for such critical steps as requesting an appropiate action plan,
suspending disbursement on the loan, requesting the renouncement of equipping
the shaft, recommending the closure of the mine, and offering assistance for
resolving the social problems connected with the mine closing.



- 12 -
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1 The Consultant had a very good record of ezperties for the assignment.
He provided valuable assistance to CdH during project preparation and in the
early phases of project Implementation. Later in the Projct, however, when
production problems developed, BRPM demonstrated that th. interpretations of
th. drilling program, in which the Consultant had a supervisory rolo, did not
account for geological problems that ultimately hindered the viability of the
Project. Also, the consultant did not foresee the "ztont of the production
difficulties, and did not propose sufficiently rigorous corrective actions.
12.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1 Considering the Project's scope and background, the project documents
were appropriate. They could have been more strict to reduce technical risks,
but that would have required a different project design. The Staff Appraisal
Report was adequate, although as noted in paras. 6.1-6.8 Project results
deviated markedly from projections. CdMls reporting, although not very regular
and timely, was of high quality. Project files on this PCR were not very
comprehensive but this did not pr:ove to be a major impediment to the
preparation of the PCR.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AID
EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 2508-MOR)
PART II: REPORT OF THE BORROWER



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MliNE MODERNIZATION AND
EXPANSION PROJECT (Loan 2508-MOR)
FORMWRD'
The analysis sumuarized hese was prepared from the viewpoint of the new
General Management, in office since May 1992. It does not necessarily reflect
the views of the parent organization (Bureau de Recherche et de Partlclpstlon
kManire - BRPM) or the Moroccan Government. It is based on internal reports
prepared by Charbonnages du Maroc (CdM), reports prepared by outside parties
and, above all, on interviews with the key protagonists involved. This study
obviously also takes account of the Project Completion Report prepared by the
World Bank in April 1992.
In retrospect, the development plan for the Jerada mine can be seen as
almost a textbook example of what could be called a process of mutual
delusion, in which the inadequacies of one party are compounded and aggravated
by the blindness of the other, the whole thing being masked by a bureaucratese
that removes all contradictions and tones down all differences.
We do not intend to dwell on the most obvious causes for the failure of
the development plan, which have been clearly identified In the World Bank's
completion report, even though the report tends, in an extremely (overly)
diplomatic manner, to sugarcoat certain truths and fails to follow the
implications through to their full conclusions
-  Inadequate geological studies on which erroneous interpretations
were pinned;
-  Narrow economic and financial analysis, severely skewed by the
closeness of a short-term event (second oil shock);
-  Failure to follow the logical sequence to be observed, e.g. decision
to dig Shaft 3 prior to the exploration drilling program;
-  Added to the initial errors in assessment, the inability to go back
and make timely adjustments, as and when the real facts becami
known.
These failings, which defy not only scientific reason but plain coumon
sense, are now sufficiently well known and recognized so we need not dwell on
them. However, the important thing is to delve further and to ask ourselves
19 Trststf on of the origfnat Part II in French, whIch the Bowrower prepared ad sent to the ank
October 26, 1992.



- 1S -
how this collective blindness could have come about.
1*       REVERSE DECISIOMAXING:  "WORKING BACKWARDS*
It was as though once an idea was put forward by a blinkered
decisionmaker, from then on the sole aim was to justify that idea a
posterlori. Good sense was ignored and even the hard facts which became
iAcreasingly evident were disregarded, in defiance of even the most elementary
intellectual and professional principles.
Such a mechanism, which originated in Morocco, was only able to com
fully into play because the counterweights set in place (World Bank, foreign
consultant) did not function aa they should have.
2        LACK OF APFROPRIATE MANAGEMENT CAPABILITIES
The management skills required to direct such a project were, in fact,
totally lacking. The lack of analytical thinking, the managers' inability to
openly express their misgivings, the prevailing climate of intimidation, and
the top-down management style, which excluded any participatory approach, all
tended to stifle the slightest inclination to think independently, to
challenge the official line or to take a stand against the top-down
production-obsessed approaches.
As regards the local managers, it is also clear that the silence of the
outside participants, (the World Bank) and their calculated and self-serving
blindness (foreign consultant) were bound to discourage any attempt on their
part to speak out against the official position and to point out its
fallacies.
3.       ABSENCE OF EFFECTIVE COUNTERBALANCES
The World Bank was put into the awkward position of having to depend on
other parties for its key information. At no time did it hire, or even show
an interest in hiring, people capable of checking and confirming the official
information it was being fed. At no time did it recruit managers of
sufficient caliber to go and independently compare the actual situation in the
field with the official statements being put out. What is more serious, at no
time did it realize the full extent of the manipulation undertaken to get rid
of anything that did not jibe with the official pronouncements.  Bad the World
Bank been better aware of the local situation and paid more attention to what
insiders were saying, it would have been able to sound the alarm sooner and
more vigorously. As for the consultant, the least that can be said is that he
proved himself incapable of following the most elementary principle of
consulting, namely the need to stand back and view matters from an overall
perspective.
In brief, under these circumstances, no control mechanism., whether
planned or already in place, could have functioned as intended.
4.       GOVERNMENT-FOCUSED RATHER THA COMPANY-FOCUSED CENTRALIZATION



- 16 -
Much of the economic argument was based on macro-considerations, such as
price-fixing by the Government, competing world coal supply, etc. As a
result, the center of gravity was (un)consciously shifted toward the
Government authorities, which had the effect of do-emphasizing the micro-
economic and administrative dimensions and tending to remove accountability
from the local management.
The Government authorities were thus unwittingly playing the soothing
role of "last resort," on call if things vent badly.



- 17 -
CONCLUSIONS
The meager improvements made in areas such as ventilation and
transportation (of personnel and equipment) can hardly offset the direct costs
incurred ae a result of the development plan, not to mention opportunity costa
and also the psychosocial costs due to CdM's disilluAionment and loss of
credibility as a result of the failure of the plan.
We, for our part, maintain, that, contrary to the official line, the
basic problem posed by the failure of the development plan vas a human one and
hinged on whether or not individuals were capable of handling reality. Rather
than a lack of good advice, there has, on all sides, been a lack of courage,
an absence of critical thinking and a lack of clear-headedness, given the
hasty, careless and slapdash nature of the project and its servile approach
shrouded in pseudotechnical jargon.
The lesson that can be learned is that the management of a project such
as a development plan is not just an academic number-crunching exercise, but
nne that calls for above-average management capability, i.e. an investment in
people, first and foremost: people who are not easily taken in, people who
practice Cartesian doubt, people capable of demystifying pseudotec:mical
rhetoric and seeing through what simply amounts to ego trips, power struggles
and sociopolitical scorekeeping. In a nutshell, more important than project-
management techniaue is a project-management culture based on independence and
clear-headedness coupled with the ability to take into account the complexity
of the psychosocial variables associated with human-resource management, all
of which override the technical dimension per se.



- 18 -
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL M               AODNT ND
EXPANSION PROJECT {Loan. 25-O-OR
PART III: STATISTICAL Il?ORMATION



- 19 -
CHARBONUAGES DU MAROC
Department of Accounting and Finance
TABLE 2: FINANCING
(In millions)
In Foreign Exchange    In local currency (DR)
Estimated    Actual    Estimated    Actual    __Actual
- IBRD               $27.0       $13.5       221.0       110.0         50
- KfW               DM 40. 0    DM 5.5       215.0       29.7          14
- FRANCE           IF 100.0    FF 77.1       157.8       121.7         77
- -WITZERLAXD       DM 15.0     DM 9.7       80.9        52.3          65
- OTHER              $0.25       $0.2         2.0         1.6          80
TOTAL (1)                                  676.7       315.3         47
- C.D.N.                                      468        379.4         81
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _                  (* )     _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL (2)       _                         1,144.7      694.7         61
(*): Drillinglshaft + 152 Handling costs + CCOD Finano. (316 + 47 + 16.4)



- 20 _
CHARBONNAGES DU MAROC
Department of Accounting and Finance
TABLE 3: DRAWINGS
CUMULATIVE DRAWDOWN (US$)
(in millions)
Year                Estimated        Actual          2 Actual
1986
I .....               1.2             2.5              208
II ....               2.5             2.8              112
1987
I .....               4.0             4.7              118
II ....               6.5             4.7              72
1988
I .....              10.0             6.4              64
II ....              13.5             8.5              63
1989
jI ....              17.0             11.1             65
II ....              20.5             11.4             56
1990
T .....              24.0             12.2             51
II ....              26.0             13.5             52
1991
I .....              27.0             13.5             50
II ..



- 21 -
CHARBONNAGES DU MAROC
Department of Accounting and Finance
TABLE 6:
_______ ___  __ ___  __ ____  _ _____  ______(in     millions)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Production
Estimated     0.80    0.85    0.93    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Actual        0.77    0.77    0.63    0.64    0.50    0.53    0.55
Payroll
Estimated                                                      6,100
Actual       7,915   71,572   7,344   6l,748   6,256   6,299   6,357



