Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3965--
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27.O MILLION
TO
CHARBONNAGES DU MAROC
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
JERADA COAL MINE MODEPNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
February 27, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may oot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY
Calendar 1984   January 1. 1985
Currency Unit   - Dirhams (DH)          DH
US$1.00          = DH 8.90              9.5
DH 1.00          = US$0.112             0.105
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE      - Banque Nationale de D&eeloppement Economique
BME       - Belgian Mining Engineers
BRPM      - Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
CCG       - Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CdM       - Charbonnages du Maroc (the Borrower)
CIOR      - Cimenterie de l'Oriental
CNSS      - Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
KfW       - Kreditanstalt fu- Wiederaufbau
MEM       - Ministry of Ene:,y and Mines
ONAREP    - Office National de Recherches et Exploitations
Peitrolieres
ONE       - Office Nationale de l'Electricite
ENERGY CONVERSION FACTORS
1 kilocalorie (kcal)    = 3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 Megawatt(MW)           = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 ton of crude oil
equivalent (TOE)    = 2.00 tons of raw fines from Jerada anthracite mine
(0.50 toe/T)
= 1.40 tons of washed Jerada anthracite
(0.50 toeIT)
= 1.70 tons of imported steam coal (0.59 toe/T)
= 4200 kWh of electricity (245 toe/GWh)
(2,500 kcal/kWh



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Charbonnages du Ksroc (CdM)
Guarantor:   Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:      US$27.0 million equivalent.
Terms:       Payable in 15 years, including four years of grace at the Bank
standard variable interest rate.  CdM would pay a guarantee fee
of 1.0% of the withdrawn and outstanding amount of the loan to
the Government, and would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks.
Project
Description: The  Project's overall objective is to develop domestic energy
resources in order to reduce Morocco's oil import bill and
alleviate the effect of the energy deflicit on the country's
balance-of-payments. The Jerada mine project aims to strengthen
CdM's organization and planning capabilities, and to increase
==                      production from 0.8 mtpy to 1.0 mtpy by 1988.  It would concen-
trate- production in a single mine; simplify the mine's infra-
structure for increased productivity and production; and improve
safety,  health  and  working  conditions.   The  project  would
comprise: (a) a drilling program to prepare underground develop-
ment work and shaft sinking; (b) underground development work to
prepare future mining areas and to simplify existing mining
areas; Cc) sinking of an additional vertical shaft to maintain
production capacity after completion of the project and depletion
of  CdM's  smaller  mines;  (d) installation  of  underground  and
surface equipment to increase efficiency, production capacity and
to improve safety and health; and (e) technical assistance to CdM.
While, as in most projects of this type, geological,
technical, and economic risks do exist, these have been minimized
here by: designing an exploration program that would remove the
uncertainties related to reserves and to difficult geological
conditions; designing a technical assistance program that would
ensure production build-up by reinforcing CdM's organizational
experience and strength with mechanized coal winning; and
ensuring CdM's financial viability and Jerada coal's long-term
competitiveness by providing adequate markets and coal pricing
policies.   The main benefits of the project include:   foreign
exchange savings and earnings impacting positively on the
country's balance of payments; a strengthening of the organiza-
tional and financial health of CdM; securing and expanding
employment opportunities for the local populations of Jerada and
Oujda; and improving safety and health conditions in the mine.
'This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Project Cost Estimate: A'
(US$ million)
Local-'  Foreign    Total
A. Shaft 3                        5.6        Q.8      15.4
B. Underground Works              7.1        1.5       8.6
C. Exploration                    1.3        2.3       3.6
D. Underground Equipment          1.8       14.4      16.2
E. Surface Investments            0.6        2.4       3.0
F. Auxiliary Investments          0.3        2.7       3."
G. Technical Assistance           0.4        1.4       1.8
Total Base Costs                    17.1       34.5      51.6
Physical Contingencies            2.1        3.5       5.6
Price Contingencies               5.0        9.5      14.5
Total Project Costs                 24.2       47.5      71.7
Increase in Working Capital          0.5        1.8       2.3
Total Financing Required            24.7A"    49.3       74.0
Financing Plan:
.---US$ million)- ---
Locala'  Foreign      Total
External
IBRD                               -       27.0       27.0
Germany (KfW)                      -       12.9       12.9
France                             -         7.6       7.6
Internal
CdM                              24.7        1.8      26.5
Total                               24.7A'    49.3       74.0
a/ Including US$2.2 million in taxes and customs duties.



- ili -
Estimated Disbursement:
-- -- (USs$ million) --
IERD Fiscal Years
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual         2.5    4.0    7.0    7.0    5.5    1.0
Cumulative    2.5    6.5   13.5   20.5   26.0   27.0
Economic Rate of Return: 36X
Maps:                       IBRD 18452R1 and 18453.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report no. 5288-MOR dated February 12, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CHARBONNAGES DU MAROC
FOR A JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Charbonnages du Maroc with the Guarantee of the KinCdom of Morocco, for the
equivalent of US$27.0 million, to help finance the Jerada Coal Mine and
*        Expansion project.  The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 4 years
of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate. The Federal Republic
of Germany, through Kreditanstalt fEr Wiederaufbau (KfW) would provide about
US$12.9 million and the French Governm'ent would provide about US$7.6 million
in cofinancing.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-'
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Inoentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report,  entitled  "Morocco  - Financial  Sector  Study"  (No.  4957-MOR),   was
issued on December 12, 1984. The following section reflects the findings of
an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in July 1984 to prepare a
paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment Policies and Prospects", for
presentation to a Consultative Group meeting held in Paris in January 9-11,
1985. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural  resources.    Morocco  has  the  world's  largest  and  most  easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts.   Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term.  There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves.   Morocco also has a relatively good  agricultural  potential.   In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report
No. P-3918-MOR of December 4, 1984 for an Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project, except for paras. 18-23, which reflect the revised
macro-economic projections prepared for the recent Consultative Group
meeting.



average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment.  Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s,  economic  policy  became more  ambitious.   In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled, the
current  account  of  the  balance  of  payments  remained  in  surplus.   The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
significant acceleration in the rate of growth to 7.51 per year between 1973
and 1977. There was also a major expansion of expenditure on social services,
which have however until now been relatively inefficient in reaching the lower
income groups, particularly in the rural areas.
6.       The phosphate boom, however,  was shortlived and phosphate  exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected  by  the  world  recession.   Accelerated  investment,  rising  social
expenditures and increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
the Western Sahara, soon created strong pressures on both the balance of
payments and the Government budget.  The Treasury deficit reached  15.81 of
GDP, and the current account deficit of the balance of payments, 16.5Z of GDP
in  1977.   To  help  finance  the  gap,  Morocco  borrowed  heavily  from  the
international capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden.
7.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a stabilization program, with the aim
of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels.  The program
centered on reductions in investment outlays and stricter import controls but
was not sustained long enough and did not address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the economy.  By 1980, both fiscal and external imbalances were
again substantial: the Treasury deficit remained at about 11 of GDP and the
current account deficit of the balance of payments at 82 of GDP. By the end
of 1980, the external debt had risen to $7 billion (not including military and
short-term debt) and the debt service ratio was 272 of exports of goods and
services in 1980.
Recent Economic Developments
8.       GDP growth has slowed down since 1978 to 2.82 a year on average, just
enough to keep per capita income from falling.   Agricultural  value added,
which rose rapidly in the sixties, has stagnated since the seventies.  Despite
substantial public investment, value added in manufacturing also stagnated in
recent years. Construction, which had experienced intense activity during the
mid-seventies, started declining steadily with the slow down in public
investment  after 1977.  Government services have  been  the main  source  of
growth since 1978.



9.       In  1980-82,  renewed  efforts  were  made  to  stabilize  the Moroccan
economy with the help of  the IMF.  In October  1980,  the  IMF  approved  a
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the amount of SDR 810 million. The
EFF was suspended in 1981, however, and replaced in April 1982 by a one-year
Stand-by, which was implemented as planned, but had relatively little impact
on  Morocco's  financial  performance.   Throughout  this  period,  Morocco's
attempts at stabilization were severely hampered by a series of exogenous
shocks: a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already
substantial petroleum import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought,
followed by a succession of poor harvests, which reduced agricultural output
by about 20% in 1981 and led to substantial imports of cereals in recent
years; c) the rise in international interest rates which contributed to a
steep increase in debt service; and d) the international economic recession
which contributed to a 30% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar price of rock
phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances, Morocco's two
principal sources of foreign exchange in the early 1980s.
10.      At the same  time,  however,  expansionary  public  spending  policies
continued to be a major source of both fiscal and external imbalance.
Adoption of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP
growth rate of 6.5% p.a., led to a substantial increase in public investment
expenditures and the Treasury deficit rose from 10.7Z of GDP in 1980 to 12.3Z
in 1982. '
11.      The combined impact on the balance of payments of external shocks and
expansionary fiscal policies was an overall increase in the current account
deficit from $1.4 billion in 1980 to $1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8Z to 13Z
of GDP).  While there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the continued growth of manufactured exports, the emergence of some
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy in late 1980, these were more than
offset by the fall in phosphate earnings and workers' remittances and the
continued growth of petroleum and capital goods imports.
12.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments,  Morocco  continued  to  rely  heavily  on  external  borrowing.   By
December 1983, total external debt, including military and short-term
commercial  debt  but  excluding  IMF  obligations,   reached   an  estimated
$12 billion.   As  a  result  of  growing  debt  and  the rise in international
interest rates, Morocco's debt service averaged $1.2 to 1.3 billion in 1980-82
(medium and long-term debt only, not including military debt and IMF debt).
The debt service ratio in 1982 rose to 35Z of exports of goods and services.
Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged $2 billion a year of which $0.9 billion
from official multilateral and bilateral sources.
The 1983 Adjustment Program
13.      In early 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net
foreign assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to tighten import
restrictions in March.  With freelv usable reserves virtually depleted,  and
1/ Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds reserves").



-4-
the high level of external debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden
for the next few years, the Government became aware of the need to put
together a package of policies, including stabilization and structural
adjustment measures, which could warrant support from both the IMF and the
Bank, and form the basis for a debt rescheduling operation.
14.      A program prepared in mid-1983 was  supported  1-y an  IMF stand-by
arrangement covering the second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 300 million.   Its principal objective was  to reduce  the
current account deficit of the balance of payments from $1.9 billion in 1982
to $1.3 billion in 1983 and $1 billion in 1984 through limits on monetary
expansion, reduction in-the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible
exchange rate policy.  Subsidized food pricks were increased by 17X to 60% and
increases were made in the prices of fertilizers, electricity, water and
petroleum products.   Budgetary  investment  appropriations  were  also  revised
downward, substantially in line with the recommendations of the Bank report on
Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual Treasury
investment expenditures to DE 8 billion in 1983 (compared with DH 12.5 billion
in 1982).  The objective of the 1983 adjustment program was  to reduce the
overall Treasury deficit from DH 11.1 billion in 1982 to about DH 8.8 billion
in 1983. d'
15.      To reinforce the adjustu-nnt  process,   the  flexible  exchange  rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continLued in 1983 with the dirham depreciated by
17X in the  12 months since August 1983.   In addition,  a process of  debt
rescheduling was started in order to improve the debt profile and restructure
it in the light of the estimated resources available for debt servicing. The
Government asked for, and was granted by the Paris Club and the banks, a
rescheduling of its external public debt maturing in September 1983 - December
1984.   In  addition,  at  a meeting  of donors  in  Paris  in November  1983,
additional balance-of-payments assistance of about $500 million was pledged
for 1983-84 and it was agreed that a Consultative Group for aid coordination
would be convened a year hence.
16.      Finally, along with its stabilization effort,  Morocco  is making a
significant start on the structural reforms needed to restore a viable
balance-of-payments position in the medium term, with a package of measures to
restructure incentives in order to eliminate the bias in favor of import
substitution which has in recent years handicapped the growth of the export
sector and hampered efficient use of resources.   In January 1984, the Bank
approved a $150 million Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA) to
support the first phase of this program, which included actions to reduce
import protection and promote exports, in particular: a continuation of the
exchange  rate adjustment  initiated under the IMF Stand-by,  coupled with a
reduction of the special  import  tax;  reductions  in  import  tariffs  and  an
easing of quantitative import restrictions; broader access to duty--free inputs
for exports and the rationalization of border-tax adjustments on external
1/  Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds r6serv6s").



-5-
trade under the domestic sales tax; improved administrative procedures; the
elimination of export licensing in agriculture and manufacturing; improvement
of the export credit and export credit insurance systems; and a significant
reduction in the scope of price controls on manufactured goods. Most of the
measures under this program have now been implemented. The first tranche of
the- Bank loan ($75 million) was drawn in June 1984, and the second tranche in
October 1984. A follow-up loan is under preparation. The second phase of the
adjustment program, expected to be implemented in 1985, would continue the
industrial and trade policy reforms initiated in 1984 and would extend the
reform  program  to  the  financial  sector.   Future phases of the adjustment
process could address further fiscal reform and initiate  reforms  in public
enterprises, education and in agricultural policy.
17.      The  information  available  for  1983  and  the  first  half  of  1984
confirms that the results of the Government's adjustment program thus far have
been largely positive. Exports increased by 10% in real terms in 1983 and an
estimated  8%  in  1984.   Tourism  receipts  and  workerb'  remittances  also
increased sharply. On the import side, a significant contraction was achieved
in 1983 as a result of the stabilization policies. In 1984, imports rebounded
to some extent, partly as a result of the trade liberalization policies
adopted under  ITPA.   There was  also  a  considerable  increase  in  food  and
petroleum imports as a result of the continuing drought. The current account
deficit of the balance of payments was sharply reduced, from $1.9 billion and
12.7% of GDP in 1982 to $1.1 billion and 8.0% in 1983 (before debt relief).
In 1984, despite the growth of imports, the current account deficit before
debt relief is estimated to have remained at about $1.1 billion, rising to
9.7% of GDP (as against IMF program targets of $0.9 billion and 7.3% of GDP,
the latter being based on expectations of substantially higher rates of GDP
growth and  inflation).   Significant  improvement  was  also  recorded  in  the
government budget deficit, which declined from 12.5% of GDP in 1982 to 9.1% in
1983 and 7.8% in 1984 (before debt relief), as planned under the IMF program.
Simultaneously. 1984 marked the fourth consecutive year of drought with its
serious consequences not only for the balance of payments but also on
employment, since the agricultural sector accounts for approximately 50% of
total employment.   The combined  impact of stabilization  policies  and  poor
harvests kept GDP growth low (2.2% in 1983 and 1.6% in 1984).
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
18.      A Consultative Group meeting was held in Paris on January 9-11,
1985. The Consultative Group focused on Morocco's medium-term adjustment
policies and prospects.  A joint Bank-IMF economic updating mission visited
Morocco in July to prepare a background paper for this meeting.   Both the
Bank's and the Government's presentation to the Consultative Group reflected
the view that a fundamental stabilization effort needs to be sustained over
several years and combined with a strong program of structural adjustment in
order to restore a viable external payments position and resume a satisfactory
rate of growth,  in view of the high external debt burden.   Such a program
would have as its basic aims:



- 6 -
(i)  to reduce the deficit of the balance of payments over the short and
medium term through continued trade policy reforms and appropriate
development strategies in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, that would increase production and promote
exports and efficient import substitution;
(ii)  to  improve  the  allocation  of  capital  and  the  efficiency  of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate changes in
investment policies) and in the private sector (through reform of the
protection system and of interest rate policies);
(iii) to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases, diversifi-
cation of financial instruments and greater competition in the
banking sector; and
(v) to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
19.      The  medium-term  projections  for  Morocco,  based  on  the  policies
outlined above, depict a scenario of transition from inward-looking import
substitution to outward-oriented export expansion. Due to the large external
imbalance, the restructuring policies designed to achieved this transition
must be accompanied by continued efforts to reduce domestic absorption.
Policies to promote exports and increase domestic savings can be expected to
bear fruit only gradually in Morocco's circumstances.   This will  severely
limit the level of investment that can be financed for the next several years,
given the constrained net amount of external financing available to Morocco,
with  a  resulting  deflationary  impact  on  domestic  demand.    However,
implementation  of  the  adjustment  measures,   including  improved  export
incentives, would induce an expansion of exports and a gradual acceleration of
output growth toward the end of the period.
20.      Export  growth  plays  a crucial  role  in  the  projected  adjustment
scenario.   As  a  result  of  improved export  incentives and the revival of
foreign  markets,  exports  of  manufactured  products  (including  phosphate
derivatives) would grow at 131 p.a on average in 1985-90.  Exports of rock
phosphates and phosphate derivatives would grow at about 92 p.a.. The overall
growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services in this
scenario would accelerate to about 82 p.a. in constant prices in 1985-90.
With respect to imports, the change in the structure of incentives in
conjunction with the depreciation of the dirham would improve the efficiency
of import substitution and reduce the reliance on imported inputs. Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would be
limited to about 2% p.a. during 1985-90.



21.      Given  the  strong  constraints  on  the  resources  available,  gross
investment is projected to decline in the short-term from about 23Z of GDP in
1980 to about 151 in 1985-90 (at constant 1980 prices).  It is assumed that
the Government would start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of  investments to priority subsectors so as to improve the
sectoral allocation and the efficiency of investment.  Priority is to be given
to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which use a
greater proportion of domestic resources.   In addition, particular attention
would have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to the
employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising
to excessive levels.
22.      An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be an increase
in domestic savings.  As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in
the Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public  savings  are  projected  to  increase  significantly.    In  addition,
improvements  in the mobilization of private savings would also take place
through interest rate increases and reform of the financial sector, so that
the overall domestic savings rate in this scenario would rise from about 8Z in
1981-82 to about 15Z in 1990.
23.      The acceleration  of  export  growth  relative  to  import  growth  in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would result in a steady improvement in Morocco's external payments
position. Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained,
the current account would be approximately in equilibrium by 1989.   Until
then, however, Morocco would continue to require substantial amcunts of medium
and long-term capital to cover the continuing current account deficits and
meet the heavy schedule of debt repayments coming due in the next few years.
Total gross capital requirements would average close to $3 billion annually in
1985-87.   A substantial portion of these requirements could come from debt
relief along the lines of the debt rescheduling obtained by Morocco from its
creditors in 1983-84.  The remainder could be obtained through normal medium
and long-term inflows of new capital, if new commitments from Morocco's
official lenders can be maintained at their current rate.
PART II - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCC1-'
24.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 60 projects, financing a total
of $2,415 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan.   IDA credits, totalling $52.6 million, have been made available
for  five  projects.    IFC  investments  have  amounted  to  $99.1  million
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part II in the Electrical & Mechanical
Industries Loan (Report No. P-3918-MOR of December 4, 1984).



-8-
amounted to $99.1 million ($54.1 million after cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales).  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits, and of IFC investments, as of September 30, 1984.
25.      Until   recently,   performance   in   project   execution   has   been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays  in  project   implementation,   and  in  others  insufficient  tariff
adjustments have affected project entities'  financial performance.   However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-a-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis
appraisal  estimates.   The  ratio  of  disbursements  to  appraisal  estimates
averaged 49X as of September 30, 1984, low in comparison to other countries in
the region.
26.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments   and   policy   reforms   aimed   at   structural   adjustment  and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly  through  lowering  the unit  costs  for  the  delivery  of  basic
services,  in order  to  increase  access  by  lower-income  groups.   Important
structural reforms muet be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases may later be supported by Bank
lending.  The Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on
the public investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals
relating to the financial sector (for which a mission visited Morocco in
September 1983), public enterprises (for which a first economic mission was
undertaken in spring 1984), and the education and agricultural sectors.
Because  severe  budgetary  constraints  are  likely  to  persist  over  the
medium-term, projects now under preparation are being designed to minimize
their reliance on budgetary funds.
27.      Agriculture continues to represent the most important sector in Bank
lending  for  Morocco.   Past  Bank  lending  has  primarily  supported  rural
development or irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, as well as a highly successful agricultural credit program.  In the
future, increased attention will be given to agricultural support services at
the national level, which are essential for backstopping regional development
projects and would be more appropriate vehicles for addressing sectoral policy
issues.  Projects are under preparation in agricultural inputs distribution,
research and extension services, cereals storage and marketing and irrigation
management.  In view of limited budgetary resources, special attention would
be paid to maximizing non-budgetary financing and improving cost recovery.
Sector work on agricultural incentives - fiscal, financial, pricing and
institutional policies - is expected to provide recommendations on structural
reforms which could lay the basis for an agriculture sector policy loan.



-9-
28.      Energy  and  mining.   The  Government  has  given  high  priority  to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission.  Future projects would assist in the development of domestic
energy supplies,  including gas, coal and hydropower.  Through these projects
as well as in our sectoral policy dialogue, efficiency Ln energy development
and use would be promoted through attention to pricing, cost recovery and
management issues.  A pilot project to support small-scale,  export-oriented
mining activities in a remote, low-income region will be mcnitored with a view
to its possible extension.
29.      Banlk lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields oE road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services.   Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency  of  existing   infrastructure   through   improved   financial  and
management performance.  Mobilization of private and non-bud4,.tary financing
as well as improved cost recnvery in these subsectors through tariffs should
help reduce the Treasury deficit.  In addition to continuing support for the
above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation for ports, sewerage
and telecommunications.
30.      Industrial  development  in  Morocco  has  been  supported  primarily
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term  credit.   In addition, policy changes were introduced  to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive  industries.   Other preJects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production.  The first phase of such reforms  is supported by  the recently
approved Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan, and further
sectoral adjustment lending is likely in industry to support subsequent phases
of the medium-term ITPA program adopted by the Government.
31.      Education,  health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups.   Policy dialogue  in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-irntensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services.  While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by  efforts  to  expand  basic  education  and  skill  training,  as  well  as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget. A first health development project would test
new health care delivery systems in order to improve basic health services in
rural areas.  Finally, the experience of projects in urban upgrading will be
continued and expander., with increased efforts to mobilize private financing
in order to reduce budgetary costs.



- 10 -
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR
32.      Energy Balance.  For several years, Morocco has been facing a severe
and increasing imbalance between domestic production and consumption of energy
resources, due to a combination of the growing energy intensification of the
Moroccan economy, and a limited domestic energy resource base. Between 1975
and 1983, the energy deficit as a percentage of total consumption grew from
78 to 881. While an annual average of $1 billion worth of imported energy
has largely covered this local shortage, these imports have in turn absorbed
an average of 45Z to 50' of the country's annual export revenues, and have
therefore had a significant negative impact on the Moroccan balance-of-
payments.
33.      Over the 1965-80 period, commercial energy demand grew at about 7.4Z
p.a. on average, slowing to 6.5X p.a. between 1975 and 1980. During this same
period, the share of electricity increased as compared to that of clean liquid
fuels and boiler fuels (coal, natural gas or fuel oil), and is expected to
reach about 40% by 1985. Overall, demand for commercial energy is expected to
increase by about 77Z between 1980 and 1995 (or from 4.7 million TOE to about
8.6 million TOE).  In 1981, industry accounted for about 421 of final demand
for commercial energy, transportation and services for 391, households for
15Z, and agriculture, for 42.
34.      Morocco  has  a  varied  but  limited  energy  resource  base.   Known
hydrocarbon resources are small, and the production potential of the natural
gas discovered in the Essaouira Basin, which' remains to be confirmed, is
currently being appraised under a petroleum exploration project (Loan
no. 2271-MOR).   While  the  country's  hydropower  potential  is estimated  at
1.1 million TOE per year under average hydraulic conditions, due to the severe
droughts of the past few years, utilization of this capacity has seriously
declined.   Morocco  has  about  6 million TOE of  proven  coal  reserves,  and
another 30 million TOE are classified as probable and/or possible at Jerada.
Finally, prospects for extraction of uranium for nuclear power from the
country's large phosphate deposits and for utilizing the estimated hundred
billion tons of oil shale reserves currently appear unfavorable, and renewable
energy sources would only make a limited contribution to energy supply.
35.      The growth in energy consumption over the 1965-83 period was coupled
to a pattern of energy supplies characterized chiefly by three main trends: a
declining share of hydropower;  a parallel decline in the share of coal; and
a marked shift in favor of oil products, with the major proportion of this
increase being accounted for by an increased supply of fuel oil.  Total direct
and indirect demand for fuel oil increased from 331 of the oil market in 1970
to 451 in 1982.  If the present dependence on oil continues, crude oil imports
could rise from 4.2 million TOE in 1983 to as much as 11.3 million TOE in
1995, entailing an increase in the oil import bill from $1.0 billion in 1981
to nearly  $3.3 billion  in  1995  (in  1983  dollars).   However,  the  large
proportion of Morocco's energy consumption that is now accounted for by fuel
oil directly or indirectly offers a variety of opportunities for inter-fuel



- 11 -
substitution.   Imported  oil could  in the future be replaced by  local  and
imported coal, natural gas and condensates from the Essaouira Basin, and
possibly oil shale.
36.      Pricing.  During the past three years, the Government has undertaken
a serious effort to ensure that national energy prices both encourage
conservation and stimulate development of indigenous resources. To this end,
oil prod, .t prices were increased to levels higher than their opportunity
costs and domestic coal prices were adjusted to close to import parity
levels. In addition, investment incentives have been provided for each TOE of
energy conserved, and in 1982/83, most taxes and duties on imported coal were
removed in order to stimulate switching from imported oil to imported coal.
Electricity tariffs, on the other hand, remain far below their economic
costs.   In order  to facilitate  the financing of power investments  and  to
stimulate more efficient use of electrical energy, tariffs should be increased
and  their  structure  rationalized.   Through  the  implementation  of  ongoing
projects and the preparation of future generation and distribution projects,
the Bank is pursuing a dialogue with the Government on this issue.  Meanwhile,
the Government is reviewing gas pricing, with the intention of setting an
appropriate price for all new domestic gas supplies, which would be linked to
the price of alternative fuels for which the gas could substitute (fuel oil or
coal). This issue is being addressed by the Bank within the context of the
Essaouira petroleum exploration and appraisal project.
The Coal Subsector.
37.      Until 1982, demand for coal was relatively stable and was comprised
mostly of imported coking coal for sugar plants and smelters, and domestic
coal from the Jerada mine for use primarily in power and industry.  However,
increasing and substantial cost differentials between energy produced from
coal and oil have encouraged industrial conversion (primarily of power and
cement plants) from oil to coal. As a result, in 1983, imported coal tonnage
tripled over 1982 levels (from 65,000 to 282,000 tons).  In view of additional
ongoing and planned plant conversions, it is estimated that by 1986, if
Jerada's production levels do not increase, at least 1.5 million tons of coal
would have to be imported in order to cover the gap between domestic
production and total demand for coal.
38.      Jerada Coal.  Discovered in 1908, the Jerada coal mine is the only
existing source of coal production in Morocco.  Located about 60km Southwest
of Oujda (covering an area of about 60km2), the mine plays an important role
in the local economies of both Jerada and Oujda by offering, in addition to
6,500 jobs, access to training, medical services, housing, and cultural
activities.
39.      Containing about 10 million tons of known and 50-60 million tons of
possible/probable coal reserves, Jerada coal production in 1983 totalled
750,000 tons, and is expected to reach 800,000 tons in 1984.  Although Jerada
anthracite has a good calorific value (5,000kcal/kg, run-of-mine, and
7,000kcal/kg, washed), it is very friable and consequently has a high
proportion of fines (80%), making it suitable primarily for domestic power and



- 12 -
heavy industrial use. The coal has been primarily marketed in Morocco due to
two  factors.   First,  while  of  good  anthracitic  quality,  only  a  small
proportion is of lump anthracite,  suitable for export.   Secondly, most of
Jerada's production is earmarked for the nearby Jerada power plant which
consumed 87% of Jerada coal produced in 1983.  Of total Jerada coal sold
between 1970 and 1983, export sales averaged only 6.6S, while domestic sales
were 93.4%.
40.      During this same period, the domestic market was comprised of four
groups of clients the largest of which was the Jerada mine-mouth power plant
noted above, consuming between 480,000 and 690,000 tons of coal per year. The
Jerada power plant is operated by the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE),
the public enterprise responsible for Moroccan electricity generation.   The
power plant, consisting of three 55MW units, supplies base load power and is
interconnected with the national grid.  Yearly supply of electricity is about
1100 GWh, equivalent to a coal consumption of about 700,000 tons per year.
CdM has recently signed a long-term coal supply agreement with ONE acceptable
to the Bank, ensuring the Jerada power plant as a continuous outlet for Jerada
fines.   The next  largest  client  group  includes  sugar  plants,  which  are
expected  to  continue  to  consume  about  40,000  tpy.   Households  (whose
consumption has averaged 25,000-30,000 tpy), other small plants and CdM's own
consumption, are expected to absorb about 40,000 tpy. The CIOR cement factory
at Oujda, which has recently been converted to coal power, has indicated its
willingness to purchase about 150,000 tpy of coal starting in 1986.  Export
sales, which have fluctuated between 18,000-90,000 tpy, are expected to
average 70,000 tpy in the future.
41.      Pricing.  Coal prices in Morocco are reviewed and determined annually
by an interministerial commission presided over by the Ministry of Economic
Affairs.  Between 1979 and 1983, Moroccan coal prices were adjusted on an
ad-hoc basis by rates lower than those of production cost increases, resulting
in negative margins between set prices and unit costs. With substantial coal
price increases introduced by the Government between 1981 and 1984, this
situation was reversed and the average realized price of Jerada coal in 1984
(500 DH/t) now easily covers unit production costs (442 DH/t).   Even at this
higher price level, Jerada's coal remains competitive throughout the Eastern
region of the country, maintaining a significant comparative price advantage
over imported coal.  However, due to high transportation costs that would be
incurred if Jerada coal were to be supplied to clients on the West coast
imported coal is more competitive in that region, and is expected to continue
to be so through the 1980s and early 1990s.
42.      The  present  pricing  structure  for  Jerada  coal   represents  a
significant improvement over past pricing policies, bringing prices close to
equivalent international coal prices.  However, in order to give appropriate
signals to energy consumers and to prevent future Government subsidies to CdM,
Jerada coal prices should be maintained at levels reflecting the opportunity
c3st of coal, defined as the price of imported steam coal equivalent in
heating value to Jerada coal adjusted by harbor, port handling and
transportation costs.  Assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would review domestic coal prices and consult with the Bank on their level



- 13 -
before November 30 of each year, with the objective of maintaining the price
of Jerada fines at between 85-1002 of their opportunity cost. The Government'
would then adjust the price accordingly by not later than December 31
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). This procedure would not only ensure
CdM's financial health but also provide for protection against foreign
exchange  risks  of  loan  repayment  because  of  the  link  of  revenues  to
international prices.
43.      Mine  Characteristics.   Jerada's  coal  seams  are  generally  heavily
folded and faulted, with folding particularly pronounced in the Southern half
of the oasin, and major faults extending from North to South. Thickness of
the four minable coal seams varies between 0.5 and 0.9 m, and only
occasionally reaches 1 m.  Possibilities for mechanized mining are relatively
limitf.d due to these difficult geological conditions, affecting about 35Z of
coal reserves. The Jerada deposit is currently being mined by three separate
underground mines: the Bassin Nord mine, the Siege IV mine (in the Secteur
Est), and the Siege V mine, located in the main basin. Siege V, the newest
mine, has the largest reserves (10.3 Mt) and will, in the near future, become
the only supplier of coal after depletion of the Bassin Nord and Secteur Est
(Siege IV) reserves.  All mines use the longwall mining technique.  In 1983,
of an average of about 25 longwall faces in operation, only two operating in
Si6ge V were semi-mechanized, and all others were non-mechanized with
relatively  low  productivity.   Coal  is  transported  from  the  faces  with
conveyors through a network of galleries and inclined shafts, to the surface,
covering an average distance of 3km. Since waste rock is mined with the thin
coal seams, the average run-of-mine coal has a waste ballast of about 40Z.
44.      In  the  past,  due  to  inefficient  planning  and   to  financing
constraints,  galleries  and  shafts  were  driven  as  needed  for  immediate
production.   In the case of the Siege V mine,  this  resulted  in an overly
complicated underground network, impeding transportation and ventilation, and
therefore productivity and safety. Without rehabilitation, modernization, and
mechanization of the mine, productivity can be expected to continue to decline
to less than the current rate of 800kg/manshift.  Furthermore, once the Bassin
Nord and Secteur Est (Siege IV) reserves are depleted (by 1986 and 1992
respectively), in the absence of expansion of the production capacity of
Siege V, overall Jerada production will also decrease. Preparation of Siege V
for increased production with simultaneous simplification of its underground
network of  galleries,  improvement  of  working  conditions,  and strengthened
planning  capabilities  are  therefore  the main  objectives  of  the  proposed
project (para. 52).
45.      A central washing plant with a capacity of at least one million tons
of product, is located at the exit of the inclined shaft of Siege V.  Washed
coal leaves the plant by a conveyor linked directly to the Jerada power
plant.    The   plant   employs   about   220 people   and   its   operation   is
well-established and virtually problem-free. The plant layout and most of its
equipment is appropriate for a 20Z-30Z increase in throughput.   However,  to
ensure that with an increased throughput, ash contents of fine coal are
compatible with the receiving power plant's boiler design, relatively minor
investments need be made to the washing plant, including the provision of a
new waste shale dump.



- 14 -
Sector Orxanization.
46.      The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) has overall responsibility for
the planning, coordination and policy-making of Morocco's energy sector.  As
such, MEM also is responsible for supervising most of the energy-related
public enterprises, including: the ONAREP for hydrocarbon and oil shale
exploration and development, the ONE, for electricity generation and CdM for
coal exploration and development.  ONE generates about 901 of the electric
power in the country, transmits it to load centers, and distributes 402 of its
production outside urban areas.   In this  capacity,  it  operates  all  power
plants  in  Morocco.   Distribution  of  power  in  large  urban areas  is  the
responsibility  of  the  water  and  electricity  Regies,  autonomous  public
enterprises  supervised  by  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior.   In  the  coal
subsector, CdM is responsible for coal exploration, development, and
production. While CdM is also directly responsible for export marketing, its
subsidiary,  SOCOCHARBO,  handles domestic coal marketing.   Given the  recent
increased importance of coal imports to the Moroccan economy (para. 37),
SOCOCHARBO's role has grown and it is presently the nation's primary coal
importer.
47.      The Borrower.  Originally a joint French-Moroccan company, CdM is now
991 Government-owned, through the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations
Minieres (BRPM).  CdM is a stock corporation (Soci6te Anonyme), with a Board
of Directors consisting of 14 representatives of public institutions including
the BRPM, the Ministries of Finance, Energy and Mines, Planning, and
Equipment, and the Governor of the Province of Oujda.  It operates as a public
enterprise and is subject to financial controls similar to those applicable to
public enterprises. Its head office, located in Rabat, maintains contact with
the Government and comprises in addition to the chief executive, the functions
of sales, procurement, administration and finance.
48.      At end-1983, of CdM's 6,500 employees, 80 worked in Rabat, and 6,420
were employed at Jerada. The company's staff consists largely of mine workers
(891);   of  the others,  101 are  foremen,  and  only  1X  are  managers  and
engineers.   The company has suffered  in the past from high turnover among
both, workers and managerial staff.   In the first instance,  dependence on
migrant labor contributed to a 20-25S turnover rate.  At the managerial and
engineering level, turnover rates have been high due to the remoteness of the
Jerada  location  and  to  limited  career  development  prospects.   Present
management has recognized these problems and the situation has improved
substantially owing to salary increases and to the provision of new housing
facilities since 1981.   Training programs are maintained for unskilled and
skilled labor, up to the foreman level. Because CdM has had no difficulty in
recruiting a sufficient number of experienced key workers and lower level
supervisors, execution of daily production tasks has not suffered from the
high staff turnover rates.  On the other hand, establishment of a consistent
long-term mine development program has been difficult due to frequent senior
management changes and to the fact that the mine management had functioned in
a highly centralized manner, without sufficient delegation to middle-level
managers.   Organizational  changes  to  remedy  ths  situation  are  underway
(para. 61).



- 15 -
49.      Financial Viability.  As a result of the operating losses experienced
by CdM during the past four years, (para. 41), the company built up arrears on
amounts due to Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale (CNSS), Caisse Centrale de
Garantie  (CCG),  and  BNDE,  and  was  forced  to  reduce  investments  for
rehabilitation and modernization of the Jerada mine, thereby decreasing
productivity.    In  1983,  CdM  started  negotiations  on  rescheduling  its
accumulated  debt  (about  DH 170 million  in  1983).   In  November  1983,  it
concluded an agreement with CNSS to reschedule DH 100 million due over
20 years without interest, but indexed to the price of Jerada coal. This debt
rescheduling,  coupled with higher coal  prices  in 1984, has  improved CdM's
liquidity  position  considerably.   Nevertheless,  CdM's  1984  cash  flow was
insufficient to cover outstanding amounts, making it necessary to reschedule
the remaining DH 70 million debt.  In January 1985, thle Government agreed to
pay CdM debts due to CCC out of unused 1984 budget allocations to CdM (about
DH 25 million).   CdM's  debt  to  BNDE  (DH 45 million) was  rescheduled over
20 years, and it was agreed that CCG would pay BNDE the accumulated interest,
amounting   to  about  DH 10 million.    These  measures  for  the  financial
restructuring of CdM were reviewed during negotiations and found satisfactory
by the Bank.
50.      Government Strategy and Bank Role.  The Government's primary policy
objective in the energy sector is to ensure necessary supplies of energy while
reducing the energy import burden on the balance-of-payments, through
development of viable domestic energy resources, promotion of efficient energy
use,  and  encouragement  of  inter-fuel  substitution.   While  the  increasing
financial strains of the past years have considerably slowed down the pace of
investments in this sector, some priority investments in oil and gas
exploration and inter-fuel substitution are underway and should contribute to
ease the country's balance-of-payments  problems  in the medium term.  These
financial constraints make it more urgent to improve (i) the selection and
coordination   of   energy-related   investments;   (ii) the   management   and
organization of public energy enterprises; and (iii) the efficiency of energy
use, through the energy pricing structure.  The proposed loan fits well into
this strategy and addresses these issues within the context of the coal
subsector.   The  Government's  overall  strategy  for  the  energy  sector  was
discussed during negotiations and was found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
The dialogue between the Bank on the Government on measures to achieve these
objectives,  particularly as regards criteria for energy  pricing,  would  be
pursued through the preparation of future projects in the petroleum and power
subsectors.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
51.      The project was [irst identified in September 1981, and prepared by
Charbonnages du Maroc with the assistance of consultants (Belgian Mining
Engineers - BME),  funded under Loan 2114-MOR  (Oil Shale Engineering).   The
project  was  appraised  in  July  1984.   Negotiations  took  take  place  in
January 1985.   The Moroccan delegation was headed by Mr. Hassan Belkoura of
the Prime Minister's Office.  The main features of the project are outlined in
the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report; a Supplementary



- 16 -
Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and Maps Nos. IBRD 18452R1 and 18453 are also
attached. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5288-MOR, dated February 12, 1985) is
being circulated separately.
Project Obiectives and Description
52.      The long-term goals of the project are:   to reduce  the country's
balance-of-payments deficit by substituting oil imports by a competitive local
energy source through modernizing coal production facilities, increasing their
efficiency and maintaining an appropriate coal pricing policy; and to secure
continued employment in a less developed region by preventing a decline in
Jerada coal production.  The propoced project will: concentrate in one mine
(Si&ge V) the production capacity of two smaller, nearly depleted mines
(Bassin Nord and Siege IV); expand production capacity of Siege V to one
million tpy; simplify the underground network of galleries and shafts; improve
health, safety, and working conditions; and improve CdM's organizational and
mine planning capabilities.
53.      The project consists of the following components:   (a) a drilling
program to prepare underground development work and shaft sinking for the
Siege V mine; (b) underground development work in the Siege V mine to prepare
future mining areas and to simplify existing mining areas; (c) sinking of a
new vertical shaft (Shaft 3) in the west of Siege V to increase production to
offset depletion of CdtM's smaller mines (i.e. to maintain overall production
levels); (d) installation of underground equipment to increase efficiency,
production capacity and to improve safety and health in the Siege V mine;
(e) construction and installation of surface facilities and equipment for
improved coal cleaning, as well as for increased supply of power and
compressed air to the Siege V mine; and (f) technical assistance to CdM.
54.      Drilling Program.  The drilling program consists of about 25 shallow
boreholes and about 15 deep boreholes in the eastern portion of the Jerada
coal basin. The shallow holes will help confirm the correct location of the
planned underground  galleries and future mining areas.  The deep holes are
intended mainly to confirm the reserves and the exact positioning of the new
vertical shaft (para. 5'.
55.      Underground  Development  Work.   The  underground  development  work
consists of the constructing and equipping of about 14 km of galleries and
inclines. The advancing method will be conventional, and roof support will be
by steel arches.
56.      Sinking of New Vertical Shaft (Shaft 3).  A new vertical shaft, 900 m
deep with a usable diameter of 5.5 m, will be sunk in the center of the coal
basin, to the northwest of the present exploitation area of Siege V (map IBRD
18453).   It will be equipped with necessary lining, shaft winders, surface
installations, electricity supply, and railway connections.   The  shaft will
provide additional ventilation (air entry) to the mine, and will shorten
access for material and personnel for future mine workings in the central
section of Siege V.  In the long-run, it may also be used as an additional
outlet for coal production.  Under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
BME is presently completing a study delineating the coal reserves in order to
integrate the shaft's sinking and operation with the near/medium-term mine



- 17 -
workings at Siege V. The exact position of the shaft would be determined by
the  deep  drilling  program  (para. 54).   Assurances  were  obtained  during
negotiations that construction of the shaft would be carried out only if and
to the extent the Bank received the results of the completed drilling progra-
and engineering studies together with a proposed program of works for the
shaft sinking, and approved such program of works (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02 and Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)).
57.      Installation of Underground Equipment.  Undergraund equipment will be
installed  to  mechanize  mining  where  feasible,   increase  efficiency  of
underground transportation, improve ventilation of underground workings, and
improve  safety and health conditions.   Due to the technical and economic
constraints of mechanizing thin seam mining, CdM has restricted the
mechanization program to the winning of coal by plough from only four
additional longwall faces, and to the trial operation of a small tunneling
machine and a coal shearer with mechanized roof support in a suitable seam
section.
58.      Installation of Surface Equipment.  To allow the washing of very fine
coal (3-6 mm size) and to assure that the mine-mouth power plant's ash limits
are not exceeded, a 1,200 ton capacity raw coal bin, an additional fine coal
screening station, and a 2 km conveyor to the waste dump would be installed at
the washing plant.   Improvements of power and compressed air supply for the
mine   would  consist  of   reinforcing  electric   distribution  lines  with
installation of related switches and instrumentation, and addition of a new
1,200kW compressed air station.
59.      Technical  Assistance.   CdM  and  BME  have  signed  a  contract  for
technical assistance to provide CdM with services for follow-up, engineering
and staff training required for project implementation and to strengthen CdM's
organization and planning capabilities.  In particular,  the following areas
will be covered:
-    semi-annual, on-site follow-up of the implementation of the proposed
mine development plan and continuous monitoring of its refinement and
improvement during the project completion period;
-    preparation of detailed studies, implementation plans and engineering
assistance for CdM staff in the execution of project components which
require expertise not available at Jerada, including the sinking of
Shaft 3,  installation  of  the   new   underground   equipment   and
specialized procurement; and
-    on-the-job   training  for  key  underground  managerial  staff,  in
particular in functions such as time analysis and preparation of
underground works.
60.      Safety,  Health,  and  Environment.   Improved  ventilation,  simplifi-
cation of galleries, fire prevention and safer transportation are expected to
contribute significantly to the reduction of occupational diseases, accident
rates and fire risks. No adverse effects on the environment would be incurred
since the increased coal production is expected to be handled satisfactorily



- 18 -
by  existing and  proposed  installations.   Assurances  were  obtained  during
negotiations that CdM would carry out the project, and operate and maintain
its facilities in accordance with health and occupational safety standards
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01 (a)(i) and 4.02).
Project Implementation
61.      The project will be implemented over six years, beginning in 1985,
and is scheduled for completion by December, 1990. Overall responsibility for
project coordination will rest with the Jerada mine's General Manager who will
monitor  the execution  of  specific project  components  by  the  appropriate
departments within the Jerada organization.  While most of the tasks to be
undertaken have been performed well by Cd:l staff in the past, in view of the
increased amount of work and the importance of timely implementation, some
organizational improvements have recently been introduced, which would be
complemented by external technical assistance.  In particular, whereas in the
past the General Manager had direct control over all functions, this role has
been decentralized and functional responsibilities have been delegated to four
second-level managers (Technical, Production, Administrative, and Planning and
Studies) with clearly defined roles, who report directly to the General
Manager.   The Production,  Technical  and  Administrative  Managers  have  been
appointed; a member of the technical assistance team (see below) would assist
the General Manager in the tasks related to planning until the Planning
Manager is trained and appointed.  A Project Coordinator, attached directly to
the  General  Manager,   has  been  appointed  to  ensure   timely   project
implementation,   particularly   the  monitoring  of  procurement.    Technical
assistance and training will be provided to CdM in all areas where experience
of Jerada  staff  is limited,  including planning (para. 59).   CdM's revised
organization chart and staffing were discussed during negotiations and found
satisfactory.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that CdM will
carry out the project in accordance with project implementation arrangements
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (a) (i)).
Cost Estimates
62.      Total project costs, including taxes and contingencies, are estimated
at $71.7 million, of which $47.5 nillion (66S) is in foreign exchange. Taxes
are estimated at about $2.2 million, and total contingencies are about
$20.1 million.  Incremental working capital required for the project would be
$2.3 million.  Total base costs net of contingencies amount to $51.6 million
(in December, 1984 terms), and were estimated by BME and reviewed by the
Bank.   Equipment costs  ($16.2 million) have been adjusted for delivery to
Morocco. All other costs, including those for the new vertical shaft (Shaft
3, $15.4 million), for underground works and exploration ($12.2 million), and
for small surface and auxiliary investments ($6.0 million) have been estimated
on the basis of price quotations (international and local), and comparisons
with  similar  recent  and  current  activities.   The  costs  for  technical
assistance ($1.8 million) are based on the contract signed between CdM and
BME.  Physical contingencies ($5.6 million) have been estimated at:  20% for
the construction of Shaft 3, 10X for other works contracts, and 5% for



- 19 -
equipment.  Price contingencies totalling $14.5 million have been derived on
the following basis:  (i) for foreign costs, 8% in 1985, 9.0Z p.a. in 1986-89,
and 7.5% in 1990; and,  (ii)  for  local  costs,  10   for  1985  and  8X  p.a.
thereafter. Total contingencies represent about 39% of base costs.
Financing Plan
63.      Financing of foreign costs (except as regards working capital) will
be provided on a parallel  co-financing  basis.   Selected  surface works and
underground equipment costing about $7.6 million would be financed under a
mixed export credit from the French Government.  40% of the foreign exchange
cost of contracts thus financed wotuld be covered by a loan from the French
Treasury, with a maturity of 25 years including a 10-year grace period at 3Z
annual  interest.   The  remaining  607  would  be  financed  through guaranteed
suppliers' credits from commercial French banks on consensus terms.  Financing
for   equipment   for   underground   mechanization   and   transport   (about
$12.9 million) would be made available by the Federal Republic of Germany
(KfW) to the Moroccan Government at 2Z p.a. interest and 30-year maturity,
including a 10-year grace period. The proceeds would be on-lent to CdM at 67
p.a. interest, with a 15-year maturity, including a four-year grace period.
Satisfactory arrangements for securing the French financing would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01 (a)).  Failure to sign the KfW loan agreemcnt by December 31, 1985, to
satisfy all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or disbursement by
March 31, 1986, or to satisfy all conditions precedent to effectiveness or
disbursement of the funds provided under the French credit by June 30, 1987,
would be conditions of default under the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01  (b)  and  (c)).   Incremental  working  capital  ($2.3 million)  and  the
$24.2 million in local costs will be financed by CdM itself.  All interest due
for project-related loans will be paid out of cash generated by CdM's expanded
operations.  In addition, CdM would pay a guarantee fee to the Government of
1.07 on the withdrawn and outstanding Bank loan balance (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.03 and Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)).
64       The proposed Bank loan of $27.0 million would be made to CdM, with a
Government guarantee, at the Bank standard variable interest rate and 15-year
maturity,   including  a  four-year  grace   period.    The   15-year  maturity
corresponds  to  the estimated  life  of  the  project  investments.   It would
finance 387 of total project costs, net of taxes.  CdM would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risk on the Bank loan.
CdM's Financial Position
65.      CdM's 1983 debt rescheduling and higher coal prices have already had
a positive impact on the company's financial position with the current ratio
increasing  from 0.5  in 1982,  to  1.7  in 1983.  In 1984,  it is expected to
improve further, and by 1994, due to the expected accumulation of cash
surpluses,  to  reach  3.6.   Assuming  that:   (i) Jerada's  production  remains
constant between 1984 and 1985 (800,000tpy), and builds up gradually to
1,000,000 tpy  by  1988;  (ii) sales  will  equal  to  production;  (iii)  unit



- 20 -
production costs decline in real terms by 9Z between 1984 and 1989 (due mainly
to the expected increase  in productivity from 800 kg/manshift to 1,050 kg/
manshift); and (iv) the average realized price of coal increases by 7.7Z p.a.
in nominal  terms through 1989 and by 6.0% p.a. thereaf'er,  the company's
financial health is expected to improve substantially between 1985 and 1994.
Due to depreciation deferred from 1982 and 1983 (DH 86.2 million), net income
is projected to be zero during 1985 and 1986, becoming positive in 1987, and
increasing rapidly thereafter.  The net income/sales ratio develops favorably,
from 02 to about 91. Debt service coverage remains satisfactory, fluctuating
at  a  ratio  of  around  2.5, dropping to a low of 2.3 by 1989 and rising
thereafter.   Finally,  the long-term  debt/equity  ratio,  after  deteriorating
through the first three years of project implementation to 67:33 in 1987,
improves thereafter to 52:48 in 1990 and to 24:76 in 1994.
66.      Financial viability, creditworthiness and a sufficient cash flow are
essential elements in CdM's future performance and its ability to implement
and manage the Project as scheduled.  Since the major contributory factors to
CdM's past financial problems were inadequate sales revenues and a resultant
accumulation of debt, assurances received from the GCvernment on coal prices
(para. 42) have been complemented by assurances from the Government and CdM on
the following financial performance objectives:  (i) CdM will maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of no lpss than 1.5 (Loan Agreement, Section
5.04 (a)(i)); (ii) CdM will maintain a long-term debt/equity ratio of no more
than 67:33 until January 1, 1991,and 50:50 subsequently (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b) and Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (a)(ii));   (iii) CdM will
maintain  a  current  ratio  of  no  less  than  1.3  (Guarantee  Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b) anl Loan Agreement, Section 5.05); and (iv) CdM would submit
annually its investment program for the Bank's review and approval (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.07).
67.      Based on the same assumptions as those outlined above, the financial
rate of return for the incremental costs and benefits expected under the
proposed  project  is  241 before  taxes,  and  162 after  taxes.   Sensitivity
analysis has indicated that the project's viability would decrease sharply if
there were a 101 drop in revenues, making the maintenance of an adequate coal
pricing policy essential to the project success (para. 42). However, the rate
of  return  (111)  even  at  this  level  of  revenues   would  nevertheless  be
acceptable. An alternative rate of return on this investment has also been
calculated which assumes all existing assets to be sunk costs.  At 341, this
is higher than the incremental rate of return because of the relatively
limited investment required to continue Jerada production and to increase it
from 800,000 tpy to 1,000,000 tpy.
Accounting and Auditing
68.      CdM's Administrative  and  Finance  Department  is subject  to strict
control by the Ministry of Finance, which assigns a financial controller to
the enterprise. CdM accounts are generally well-organized and up-to-date, and
have teen audited regularly by the Ministry of Finance. While an independent



- 21 -
prior audit of accounts is not considered necessary, CdM would in the future
employ independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that CdM would provide the Bank annual audited
financial statements by no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
.,year, with the exception of the first year of project implementation, when
audited financial statements would be submitted by July 31, 1985 for CdM
.FY 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).  CdM would also be required to submit
to the Bank quarterly project progress reports within one month after the
reporting period, and annual project progress reports by February 15 of each
year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b) (iii)).
Procurement and Disbursement
69.      Under the proposed project, about 16 procurement packages would be
financed  by  the  Bank.   Prequalification  will  be  required  for  the  work
contracts  for the construction  of  Shaft  3.   ICB will  be  applied  to  all
Bank-financed contracts exceeding t300.000 (totalling about $23.9 million) and
the corresponding bidding documents will require prior Bank review. All other
Bank-financed contracts, up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 million will be
procured through LIB and would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Foreign Procurement
(US$ million)
----- IBRD -----  --- Bilateral Aid ---
ICB   LIB  Other  Germany (KfW)  France   Total
Works contracts           11.3   -      -          -           1.2      12.5
Equipment supplies        12.7   1.0   -         12.9          6.4      33.0
Technical assistance       -       -    2.0       -             -        2.0
Total                   24.0   1.0   2.0       12.9          7.6      47.5*
* Excluding working capital.
70.      Disbursement of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be made on the
basis of (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for the following components:
equipment for underground works and Shaft 3; underground and surface equipment
($11.8 million);  and  consultants  services  ($1.9 million);  and  (ii) 95%  of
total expenditures for works related to construction of Shaft 3, and drilling
and  construction  of  surface  equipment  ($10.6 million).   Unallocated  funds
amount to $2.7 million.  No special account would be needed for the project.
An amount of $2.5 million would be made available for retroactive financing
from July 31, 1984, for expenditures incurred for technical assistance and for
works   (Loan  Agreement,  Schedule 1,  paragraph 4 (a)).    The  disbursement
schedule differs somewhat from the usual country/industry profile in that the
project implementation period is short.   This  is due  to CdM's familiarity
with similar procurement which should facilitate rapid project start-up.



- 22 -
Proiect Benefits and Risks
71.      Economic Rate of Return.  The iticremental economic rate of return for
the project is estimated at 36S, and is based on production scenarios and
capital and operating costs used in the financial analysis of CdM with the
following exceptionis: import duties and all taxes were not taken into account
and, a conversion, factor of 0.8 was applied to all local labor costs.  This
high rate of return,  due principally  to the rehabilitative nature  of  the
project, has been found also to be most sensitive to a 101 decrease in sales
revenues, whereby'the resultant ERR (242) indicates that the project remains
nevertheless highly attractive.
Benefits
72.      The most immediately obvious and quantifiable benefit to be derived
from the proposed project is the foreign exchange earnings and savings that it
will provide, and the impact of these on the Moroccan balance-of-payments. In
this regard, the incremental annual export earnings would increase from
$0.2 million in 1985  to $3 million by 1990 (in 1984 teLms).  In addition,
foreign exchange savings due to the use of Jerada coal by both cement and
power sectors would amount to $27 million (1984 dollars) by 1990. Combined,
the foreign exchange earnings and savings resulting from this project would by
1990 largely exceed the estimated $6 million (1984 dollars) in foreign debt
service, and after 1990 range around 4S of Morocco's average oil import
expenditures in recent years.
73.      Other, less quantifiable benefits accruing from the project include
the institution-building effect of the project by its contribution to the
improvement in CdM's planning and management and in its general financial
health, thereby preventing dependence on budgetary subsidies.  In the absence
of  the  proposed  project,  employment  at  Jerada would decline.    Expanded
production under the project permits maintenance of current levels of
employment vital to the development of the Oujda region.  The project would
significantly improve health, safety and overall working conditions in the
mine, and would have no adverse effect on the environment.
Risks
74.      The project carries geological, technical and economic risks that are
prevalent in underground thin seam coal mining. The geological risks are of
two kinds:  lower mineable reserves than estimated, and difficult geological
conditions linked with the shaft sinking. As in other mining projects, these
risks cannot be fully eliminated. However, they have been minimized in this
case by the incorporation of a drilling program designed to verify the
continuity  of  geological   conditions  before  major  works  are   started
(para. 54).  In addition,  202 contingency provisions have been made for the
shaft construction.   The technical risaks, relating to the possibility of CdM
not attaining the planned production build-up, have also been minimized by the
planned reinforcement of CdM's organization and staffing and by a well
specified technical assistance program (paras. 59 and 61).  The economic and



- 23 -
financial risks relate to the long-term competitiveness of Jerada coal
vis-&-vis imported coal.  As described earlier the comparative advantage of
Jerada lies in its proximity to its two main consumers (85? of production).
For both the Jerada power plant and the CIOR cement factory, al&ernativp fuels
would be far rostlier than Jerada coal, a trend that is expected to prevail in
the future.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Charbonnages du Maroc and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
76.      Special  conditions  of  the project  are  listed  in Section  III  of
Annex III.   Special  conditions  of  effectiveness  include  the  satisfactory
arrangements for securing the French financing (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01).   A special  condition of  disbursement  for  the construction  of  the
vertical shaft is Bank approval of the proposed work program for the shaft
sinking (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
oE Agreement of the Bank.
PART Vl - RECOMMENDATION
78.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 27, 1984
Washington, D.C.
J



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
T A Z    L X LM                                    PA* I
i.o.u  i,,@Lk    uiyuuspstk   N. AFIC NW    KI  KAT L     RAISC  A &
am  CREW- mq.m) ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m                                  MTRao   ETMB
TOTAL                               46 .6.   446.6  .    4446.1.
AOhICULTURAI.                      192.7 f     200.1 A      206.91
r vu cum  (nun                        190.0       300.0        870.0             141.6                 2106.0
mIO cmisuwni a cAnn
munusm~~~ ~ ~ ~ as nuus uumutn>
(ZILORANSOF CI KWIAUM)    11.         1z7.0  *lS.                     62. I                  " M.5S
POPLATIo,NI-TEA. (TUwANDs)   11026.0         10246.0      20209.0
URA  POLATION C7 OF TOtAL)          29.3        34.6         41.9              46.2                    6.5
POPULATON PROJECTION
POPULATION IN lEAN 2000 CXILL)                             31.2
STATIONARY POPUATXON (CHI)                                 70.4
FOPUIATION NOERIDISt                                        1.9
POPUATION nNSMn
PEN sq. M.                        26.0        33.5         4.2               36.3                    35.7
PEN SQ. N. AGRI. LAND             60.3        74.8         94.5             461.7                    92.4
POPULATION AGe STRUCTURE (S)
0-la 113                         44.8        47.0         45.4               43.6                   39.9
13-64 US                          52.0        48.3         51.4              53.1                    56.0
5 ANA                              L6          4.2          3.1                3.3                    4.1
POPULATIII GROWTH NATE 12)
TOTAL                              2.6          2.5         2.3                2 L                    2.4
05U3                               3.7         4.2          4.1                4.5                    3.6
CIU  BIRTH NATE (PER trEo)          50.3        47.5         60.3              40.4                    51.3
CRUX  DATH RATS (ru T )             21.2        16.9         14.6               11.5                    6.1
GROS REPROOCOTION RATS               3.5         3.5          3.0                2.6                    2.0
FAILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. AIUAL (TNOIS)             ..        23.1        78.0 tj
USERS ( oP  nAiD       N)           ..          ..         19.0               22.2                   40.3
rM A N
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
( 19b9-71-IpO)                      99.0 a      9.0          66.0              97.3                   114.3
PER CAPITA SUPILT OF
CALRIES CS Of EQUIRIET)          102.0       104.0        115.0              110.8                  110.0
PROTEINS (COAS a  MY)             04.0        67.0         73.0              70.1                    17.3
OF VllCK ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.0        13.0        14.0 A             17.8                   34.1
CHILD (ACE  1-A) DEATH RATE         36.3        26.0         22.0              14.6                     5.7
LIFE EVECT. A? SIRTH (TEARS)        46.7        50.6         51.9              57.5                    64.7
INFANT NHUT. NATE (PER TIROUS)     160.1       134.0        125.0             101.5                    00.6
ACCESS TO SE WATER COP)
TOTAL                              MQ.e        51.0        55.01             59.7                   05.4
URIS                              s.7         92.0        100.0              34.5                    73.1
RURCAL                            19.0        2S.0         25.0 dt           38.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO LICRA DISPOAL
(2 OF POPULATON)
TOTAL                               .,        29.0           ,,                 ..                   52.9
URIl                                ..        75.0           ..                ..                    67.0
RUAL                                .,         4.0           ..                 ..                   24.5
POPULATION PM  PlSICIS            9410.0    11790.0       10750.0 Of    4545.1                       1917.7
POP. PER RUNIG PERSON                 .       2740.0       1300  1t 131.1                             525.S
Pop. PR  OSPITAL BZD
TOTAL                            630.0       660.0        750.0 1*          632.9                  367.2
nA                 o                         450.0         1 r              545.5                   41.5
RURAL                               .       510.0        3010.0 f           2513.5                 2036.3
ADtiSsi101 P   OSITAL CSD          .           15.5         17.9.LL           20.2                    27.3
AVERAGE SRE if HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9         5.5           ..                 ..
URN                                4.3         4.9           ..                 **
RURAL                              5.1         5.6
AVnAS N0. 0 PRUOM/NodE
TOTAL                              2.2         2..
URlA                               2.1         2.1
RURAL                              2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. (R Of ONELINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..           ..               4.2
1mm                                 ..        63.4         05.0               77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               16.1



-25 -                                               ANNEX I
T A I L !  3A                                        FACE 2
_HROCCO                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOIOCCO                               UPERENCC GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES) a
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
9IRECENT       MIDDLE INCOMC           RIDDLE NCOIC
196Lb      m97Lb-    ESTIMATCE1b    N. ARiCA a HID EAST        LAT. MRICA A CAR
ADJUSTED EHRLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:  TOTAL                     47.0         52.0         78.0              89.3                     105.4
MALE                     67.0        67.0         97.0               102.5                    106.3
FEMALE                   27.0        36.0         60.0                73.6                   104.5
'1                   SECONDAY: TOTAL                       5.0        13.0         26.0                43.0                    43.2
MRLE                      7.0        16.0         31.0                52.3                     42.3
FERALE                    2.0         7.0         20.0                33.0                     44.5
4                  VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)            30.2         2.3           1.8               10.3                     33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0        34.0          36.0               30.3                     30.1
SECONDARY                            6.0        20.0          20.0               23.1                     16.5
ADULT LITEIACY RATE (C)               13.8        21.4          28.0               43.5                     79.5
PASSENGE  CARS/THOUSAND POP           10.7        14.9          21.5 /             17.8                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVttS/TMOUSAND POP          45.8        62.5         155.9              138.8                    225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.4        11.6          38.9               46.1                    107.2
NEWSPAPER (CDAILY GENERAL
INIZREST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             22.1         16.2         12.3 /f            31.2                     63.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        1.5         1.5 Ih        2.0 7T             1.7                      2.8
LABOR  OC
rOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           3389.0      3939.0        5361.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.0        14.2          16.0               10.8                     23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.0        57.0          52.0               42.4                     31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0        17.0          21.0               27.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               29.1         26.3         26.5               26.2                     32.2
MALE                                52.1        45.2          44.4               46.4                     49.3
FERALE                               5.9         7.5           8.5                5.8                     15.2
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         2.0           1.8                1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRXSUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOQE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.0 It     20.0 I.
HICHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS           43.3 7?     49.0 7i
WWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              7.0 Wt      4.0 71?
LOWEST 4OS OF HOUSEHOLDS             8 .O T     12.0 7?,
PoRVtil TARGET GROUPS
EStIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCORE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              107.0       157.0         389.0 If           274.8                    288.2
RURAL                               66.0       101.0        238.0 7?            177.2                    184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAP1TA)
URIR'                                                        242.0 If           402.6                    522.8
RURAL                                                        157.0 7T           284.9                    372.4
ESTIMTAED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IXCO14E LEVEL (1)
URBAN                               51.0        38.0          28.0 If
RURAL                               49.0        45.0          45.0 7T
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averaGes for each indicator are popaetiu1-ueighted arIthmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unles6  tIher1..t noted. Data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Excludes the ex-SpanLsh Sahara; Id 1976; /e 1977; /f 1979: L  1978; /h 1972; IA Consumption expenditure of
households.
JUNE. 1964



-26 -                                                                          ANNEX I
m.s.inm w nes. emiasespage  3o 
Mmcc   Olte.96iCe  .e. to Jtoe  w~nooie  .e.tileJ.""i am   aS .ehi          md mia.lho. It eh.ld tIes he eMSd  CUele, -, ac *6 leit-namaliso
ee0sl   e.mC  iC  ink  o .1 Oi  dlodoisd     goiies. ae -mIsp        04   , iiB.l.t.l ntIst  me eolLciem  the dome  tim asset on. sh  os  oeit
demerge. en.1 eN 11iMo.  Mimie. sKo".. em  lkeheweletlo  anile isetdajor                 i    is.at
=i tlW2 f ra ean  sic.0   Cii iMtan    omn  e. all       imp meo., -Ntep  talet (a) s 5M       .n .m nUaL. I         l     *almost *% . of  o . n  ene-   t-  .4t
oo,t   mi. Ioeee    fct  as5   d... liii     feoit   gsop.,te  "MB        . nb_al.   A ttI     a  h MAL tm t  soe  hem. .1 oem.             *l-mAie
-po   ft. am.. 4. .   see Ina tet I  lIen 6*6m  cneto .1p psieton nonal she. InMio"".c  5.        e -   tslson  IlWast,of stase nd    eM  nel-..-ten,eee 10*5
*.sqglmd 54 ratlocie  enma.. .tO4     1MC c          -lb..ihe. T..emantedi   o  "lF a9.ee   se  emissionsh  eels -I    '  -   ledlmnceee  . ii .. i-se   sOW  cssp   a
Ails (seneca ....c.i                                                  flaI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mlnntm flfta, Peetela di...oldS  eih . 4. pq.f m
its s.d loll dole.                                                             r.a4aeso Id Woi essel  g P.t.  - Pipe.ehsa  W1as e  tc. .t  tti
1.kll       .,i . iiao tU lIsi   st. o,eed ...e.seoul   cemnormsdBeesadnl  eerM                                      i   neibncoi e-ee., pteiisA.eto   o
.me.iC~5i cd *lOit mice'   " i  Is . li      =9sis    A.              'RoMee  nclot.1e.
ast . weelel.helo1 emrCtlcs. haee-t. gmAsh. lo-It  no
Omege ~WICW?t"  PU CA!iYs -  51501 ow  tots omonis.    eoowdll                     aco    -nest  an  peesscesalelf HOW  hy apeeleSRo  lh.m or . altosI
weiss? *tgt tee.. sA  i~ie5le. teseelo . onc  M.. a1 hem. -Ioie                   Wetee .  .n. elicets. ceo.) Mice0 eel.  Aip.nii.  .ome.mcln  em
ad ce.sImte  eemolIii itti ylewe           el us9 s         P.es ,c pet  nlisi 10.            poateetd  n 41101C   tO    el cedOni Iecm.lO.O.
mOen, aLost dnlC.                                                                                                         ' CI.  et-W  sOodiei. I sO  .  s isod-t.
d".. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ M ~                 ih.
49    Ciso I  esce  em  oeL -1Mess . 6    e 0t..s Inst smleltie                            eee.toefse                    fSItcL6hnLoo                      m
ba! et-                  -re e.goi-  omsesbtlleg .4 in.                      --ieeisent.       es.                   o  s. -P          a   e  eicds  I
eei  smelcec. low. tin.  ae  ink ems..                                                  ihe hosseeld fee issu,.-,dsl meepiect.
- Ceec  Paeloola  ftsjm.baS ms. hwoodntWepton  ec  es, n. 1.11 och.. We   eteolo    .esO
*M*  0096 .qs  o.mp  a  si. a  thAt nweello, a ed            i Ilie61                      isollso. e-Po.pieoes.  ftiliqi onwtssd =as.poccnno, iilOsi.
tocse.  Ptee..Lslo  vesroete fn ntisllsq .'0"  Soonds chIto.-eoP    P5flO
tan.  ti- petls.  to. fscells  em clens   locn shi   aet                                ofmoI  ...             ie     olqicoolc
,.efe an te oelm.n  eslier amTeea   o,  Aes nonI,         a  no-  ISle.F".a                                       .kdetng,Icneta
etleg   Ief1ee    sOoCe   seoo                     Soc            Coastem
otchecIl      1. niselit  a  lliic     losesM In  pejciom   estic
mob a"Pefore"      nt.- cosl, LaM ch-lhme o-piie or          tltpou                                 0     5CI           M Ielaptsae0 .csce
teem  iee olltonili nnli a  ielocom  mcm  Ic                                     peOi, osoologe odeAoCtae  0 _04911   immlm     RaLm...s    01-1
ao eql   n SMiohtt.io no ciihsC  lo   s                        .ase                          cso ot setni  idsl  enlm 1 n  e my  f                     I.ea  MP5.40
his c   sheo p6tceesnd ihts icCi  .6 eMa            to-,ssl   I.eM. .WMearysplsescol-ke,e   as. sacale - ,isS abcld                                     s neh--ewI
2.Pf. acmnic  1. dm115  00 win.1o tC     of. ccl  V." Ls      o inonds.                       -,=eitinn .l. Fes         -onwaft.# oprcaw  e.nasnw  Iesis lce
wee.loo  4944m  - Is i.. t2Mi  toe a belte S.es, coass  oo. tiseCOW                        pOseido            .49.&_e.to       -loaeimw   toelr -ee-do is- Ice
"ach  M6  tie  tUC 1.swccne-eelte9-ICe  ho"  ho  octcee. sees                               sepsI  weal1,1. iEi..  56,  cawer4 adec  eoensL cic1    cictoome  o
ba,.c  cO L  poesIssa          h  e of  I ft noosmi    s.c teAiPon eMeougceqplnCqoc3   .   tUte       sei*i                                              mitloss
..-isl.lO l some.   oneisa-e_tcaaeoJatiIioott                                             -Id"q.. qe   d   a-ooo.. t- tst sI.tds0    Lic  c
jqjft, a   196' de .-LL.                    I           d-Idolds ileio       0  it                                iltC   dsLe t      Il meta..  ose
pipslosina  1100.iOU. a  soil in..c%n  sI..              I                                              ol     Iso.-I - .eais..m -lcc ..PweC a
imliow         L.;m-     A  Mise   inn .0 se&.I  Le-                 otOtlep, mlditia.
"o,   Rocks                                                                                                             r~~~~~~~~~o~et   fc   teifcossc-M   .esc   enien  Ii  al
P"                                                                                      9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sLiidnbt   . icneolon aw t.Pe gices      taoeloetian .1 teL.
fcseeel ton blihM per iRosamond   o                        ego on.a, Is olinoS dsom fcc  mack 7iOtr neorno  he inomgSlO  etc  -ns
MM.a m.M                   no        wo   oho.e ItMtoo  aeon  a  Ic os.    a weheln  es, fntgosee m   5wIf e
he   antWip ssln Pewi"   Iseowetse  pmence  ecop-aLouet.i i U                                             ia      fin i i   -                 5*6 ls onntop
t.ointO pagens, mostly ft-ooect -.am odalq to ton. tell. ae                               "i1iLOPUi1      GOSIiiiockIiUAeeiiesnipnet.  deftlni   .0 pi,"CneA
s["a.                                                                                      p.Ietoot, dno-"   "'L.",LTon,i 1..ncilc  spessoow   -.   t to  nnlhtcadro
-  nii      liii        - ~~~~~~mee  ev of ancin                     m i  dsAAr ,  to  cosi       ad a -  mees  nat meo   s. cn
pintCcl4 my fi. .0 oooe.neta ill fielo    a.   1W. d.il.                                      B.
Myldsee     pollsom i  =e.ot     .,.o L l-On.sei lt
sonilttedcoslgeiitttndLlSiGw.s.seln eshon  Wis.                                Iii            ckis l-, tahe- tan it tnesei   tne.. imole a0    I
i~iton   ntes  ci0060) flM o   Moeto       s.o eneeoo  e..         JluJinSMLm -   t finsr to  leai ngi . oolwesC. oo-eln tsed                 a
dolt.oss L-R." of                                                                                 asn  lam tansiiseoid  - inns  nts.IM  afq l.- PgylieIn  em
Sq. on  tlobl neeti, soplo easoal,ws   pwgsata glipsie ia" edtn                              000. sail  ade1".     m.   l       n a e.Icg               iee       n
gmego         he    Sm           ne.              o e tInt  ist cm .ofI lq                                 ciint   f P*  sceont.    aI  PCI oaltwa.
00061,   alkaM W51Mpmsmn                   .00  lsooa   WnAI.                               le   nmn   ntneoes   no
'a  4.6 as aepi    a 0                    ltnl a Ic                  g,in* ha-im    et nelson  ate  ii a Wm                                                o     ecn..
Pet i,ceare sJairadb nois           Z L -a Pteisdoseen  e In          niL .                 M64tsg         j Mlsg   tt   (5,_tPontrs - ofIII -         0 M lent sac Ien
Nttad   sf0 dL500.9 ci   PPol polt.   eM Sepa   10 pNeon of ahola
.on.weattsnti    f!a                      fssipoie                  lo        ~           A    t     I .no    se            vnis t JUM               etr ti.t.one. a
WhM   tI  PesiW  Mmpe. A ISO. M si-. a  jaeroso.                                                                    a0                             ore- t-   iase     -
Psqe lgwasaw  -.teocly mI.iwssAta           l  e              trb&   rdca,apae,i    of gem    e     ipo4W             -l       5    L      L.-            ice.c
aeon.- tin  nlo    a -  aml" P""   PM5 det Spnd AWM i tiedk of       091?o                  awAil,            ie   t    h  S       o    mld             ia       s
,ma,do, an _    eco_ , __    room_ ._ _  Some__11smal, p___    onandsa- Ic                                        , son _________________________ ,_____some______ -__ ..____ d
orMN I games. cto M  ten p t ItisechearLd.  biy,             M insis.n                      pNotl b  ton  01d ns.,. Me    at00mOn  lnSto
Mod V-" F." nopLri 1"t-4snt0ot Sjenntotewm5oMAt eqfl st  a
LI       utsr lvf I."                                                                  P.M-IM 106~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S=      M        . a;,"                                                ;~~~   ~~~~~~-,Pet -- nA   (g.      tieIMooe
6.09-                                                                                             Ons, -.au&  .-Occall "WA~~~~~~no-
dkkfto
in a ninoe3          - =     tenpl    p   enoses heaIn Pa osede . cM29;m                                                                                      3
tend  Molm   njs he".  food  afs  helesolIND.  male oo ildffc   oemdh.=F  f  obr                                                   MAI-    .dgd  rmo.-
hoe.  10mm    -   anoblo  nan  oh   hole sims mdM the  iset,t-  niod, 08 9  ustg .  old, enle
is~~~~    -1      -     fto-M   .  St 4  ul-  eacks4f-                                               F.L1    .b             F    -)I
~ pos   t-     seo.     oos  m 4o. o  Woods,    ew and
~Syn   016*60 SiO             I p-lain..  tIO   Co -d  sIsI   e  onl
a nitmela0 an Pw.. 0tm a   sanst * ones. ofa  e                       m cano
re,a lmo M oflo- Meongm as onm  of                                   ohbom 
show townlsho



- 27 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                                        ANNFX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 7SO (1983)                                                                                              Page 4 of 6
WIRWQCO -   ONOETC  INOICATDRS
Amount
(million USS at                        Annual Crnwth Rates (S1
current prices)                       Actual                               Pro1rctad
Indicator                    1983          1923   1929   1931   193.1       19M  11   13 A/  1985   la96   19a7
NATIONAL ACMUNTS
t       Gross domestic product a/    13301          2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3    6.8    2.2    1.6         2.7    2.7    2.3
Agriculture                 2247        18.0    1.7    6.1  -22.9   19.9   -4.6   -1.0         2.0    2.0    2.0
Industry                    4247       -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.1    2.2    3.1   -0.5          3.0    3.0    3.0
Services                    5911         4.0    5.1    6.4    6.1    6.4    5.0    4.1         3.0    3.0    3.0
Consumption                   11794         4.2    5.8    2.5    1.9    6.0    0.5    0.7         2.4    1.6    1.7
Gross investment               2737       -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -9.6    7.0  -14.4    6.0        -1.1   -3.4   -1.6
Exports of GNFS                2993         3.3    0.9    3.6    2.2    5.3    7.6    4.8         4.2    8.7    9.2
Imports of GNFS                4222       -17.4    3.3   -9.8    4.1    3.7  -11.0    3.9         0.4   -0.1    2.0
Gross national savings         1863       -15.4    3.2    6.0  -33.4    3.9   21.9    2.3         8.1    8.1    8.5
PRICES
GDP deflator (1980 = 100)         .        85.4   91.7  100.0  110.8  121.8  125.0  139.9
Exchange rate (USS per OH)       .         .240   .256   .254   .193   .166   .141   .114
Share of GDP at Market Prices (S)                             Averame Annual Inerease (S1
tat current prices) c/                (at constant 1469 prices)        (at constant 1980 prices)
i96                                           19fi75 18    l8  22   eO-70   1970-75   1g75-80  tsBe_85  1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                     4.0        4.8        5.3             2.7          2.8
Agriculture             29.1   19.9   17.9   18.1   14.4   14.0         3.5       -1.4        4.4            -0.7          2.3
Industry                23.5   27.0   35.2   32.3   31.0   31.3         4.7        7.1        4.1             1.6         3.0
Services bJ             47.4   53.1   46.9   49.6   54.6   54.7         4.1        5.5        6.2            4.4           2.8
Consumption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   88.1   84.2          4.1       4.8        5.9             2.3          1.9
Gross investe.nt           10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   17.4   14.7          8.0      12.2       -1.1            -2.7         -0.7
Exports GNFS               27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.7   26.3          1.3       0.0        4.8             5.2          7.9
Imorts GNFS                26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   26.2   25.2         3.5        7.9        1.7            -0.7          2.1
Gross national savings    11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   12.2   15.9           3.5      14.2       -4.5            -1.4          8.4
As S of GOP
121k      1970       1975      19930      l9H2      1983
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                16.5       16.1      23.3       21.6       22.7      22.2
Current expenditures                            15.6       14.5      20.2       21.8       Z2.6      22.7
Surplus (m) or deficit C-)                       0.9        1.6       3.1       -0.2        D.1      -0.5
Capital expenditure                              3.8        5.7      12.2       12.2       13.8       8.4
Foreign financing                                 ..        1.3       3.7        5.6        7.2       3.6
l9fi0-72   1927075   1975-80   1480_A 85   l-M
OTHER INOICATORS
GNP growth rate Ct)                              4.0        6.0       4.9        2.3        2.6
GNP per capita growth rate CS)                   1.6        3.1       1.8       -0.2        0.1
Energy consumption growth rate Ct)               3.8        6.7       5.6        3.2        2.8
ICOR                                             3.09       3.0       4.1        8.3       5.7
Marginal savings rate                            0.10       0.38     -0.15       0.13       0.42
Import elasticity                                0.95       1.84      0.13      -0.25      0.75
a/  Components are expressed net of import taxes and will not add to the total due to this exclusion.
l/ Import taxes included in services.
rL Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
p/ Estimate.
February 12. 1985
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0O1sOpi



- 28 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-19)                                                                                      Pag   aof  I
GNP Per Capita:  U$ 756 (10 U32                                                                                              Palm3s of 6
IOElrf -     IIeY AL TOCAE
Amuunt
Indicator                 (milliOn US$ ot aAntul Crawth Retor tS1 tet ennltnnt lean arieogl
current prices)                       -Atusl                                  Prntnmetd
______________ _____________   1 a             ua         .  1        Is        1 5*3       l Ann      1  ns     e  in
U~~~~~~~L ~ ~ ~ ~ IS
Morchandise exports IFOU)             2054              4.0         1.1        10.2        1.4           3.6        3.3        9.4
Primary products                   121             -2.9       -11.8        4.7         8.5           3.6        3.4        2.4
Phosphate roeck                 49              -1.4       -10.1         4.8          .8           4.0        2.0       2.0
Others                          755              -1.0      -12.6         4.5        10.I           3.2        2.7       3.7
Intenmdiets A manufactures           55             25.2        32.0       19.1         3.l           3.6       16.3      17.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)             3626              4.4         6.1        -7.5        7.5          -0.4        0.4        1.9
Food                               524             22.9       -15.3        -6.3        21.9          -9.6       -5.4       0.5
Fuels                              9as,             10.6       -1.6         0.7         9.6           0.0        0.0       0.0
Machinery end equipment            6U2              -2.3 I       0.0      -26.2         4.6           0.0       -4.6       -3.2
Others                             1422             -3.2        131.       -2.3         2.2           3.2        4.9        5.3
ElZc= (1nc * 100)
Export price index                                    119.4       123.1       124.6      159.1         181.3      2032.      221.6
Import prict index                                    121.2       139.0       1491.      117.0         207.0      223.7     211.1
Terms of trade Index                                   93.1         1.0        90.1       51 .1         57.6       89.0       90.1
Co.positlon of Merchandise Trade (X)                      Aera.. Annunl !ner .sa 13
tat eurrant .rie.o1                 tiCogtant 11i  nriemn1            (Constant 1910 Drries1
*inl    1225    129i   JetM    l99i         1470-75        195ZA-5M              129-2s    12"-c
Exports                                                                          -1.3            6.3                  6.3        7.9
Prinury products                39.4    66.9    7515    53.1    47.1          -2.3            5.2                   0.3       .13
Internmdiates & manufactures   10.6    12.9    24.5    41.1    52.9             7.6          12.8                  17.8       12.2
Inswrts                                                                           8.6            0.7                  1.6        2.1
Food                            16.9    21.0    16.5    16.0    14.1           12.1           2.9                  -0.1      -0.2
Petroloe                          1.5    10.5    23.6    21.7    26.0          9.1            5.2                   3.4        1.6
Machinery and equipment         24.1    24.0    18.3    16.6    14.1           12.0           -7.3                 -1.3       -1.2
Others                          512.     40.2    40.9    41.7    46.8           1.2            2.0                  2.5        4.4
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Tnductrial Countries 1S1          pypglfnina rountrirs  12    taital Snr1u. O11  xnprtar  Ill
9m                                                    19ma  inn   a0 ma   ma 12110
O!R1rT2QN OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       72.7       76.5        27.7      25.4       21.6                    0.9           1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9       72.9        23.3      25.1        8.3                                18.
V/ Estimatae
February 12. 1985
EMENA CPIIB
ZOO 1I016p



- 29 -
Population        20.8 million (uid-19633                                                                                UlhX I
UNP Par Capita:  US$ 750 (1983                                                                                     Page 6 of 6
mACCCPe - mALIAIC OF PAWWMXTS OtT8 CWPITAL AllO 313
juillien USS at current prices)
Indicator                                               ctual                                     Projeted
(                                                         1923   1222   1966   1231.  1212   1131   12"u n          1231   1266   1232   1923
EALAMCE OF PAWNITS
Exports of goods and services          295S   3694   4364   4132   3843   3921   4070           4523   5319   6264   9730
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    146    1936   2414   2253   2043   2056   2158              2437   2977   3628   6066
Imports of goods and services          4353   566   5912   609s   1912   4888   S147            5412   5993   6703   9325
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2628   3245   3770   3840   3315   32W   3156               3733   4196   4700   6637
-                   bNt current transfers                  s5       44    126      102    170      94      97         70      74     77      69
Current account balance               -1348  -1530  -1420  -1861  -109    -673   -931           -819   -600   -367    494
Net Direct Foreign Investment            45      37    109      73    102       47      51         S6     62      63      91
Official Grants                         260    420      96    313    204        44      16          -       -       -      -
MLT loans (net)                         690   1017   1036   1103   1354    230    606           1087    997    909   -427
Official                             366    341    722   1033    740    340    389            66I    713    693   -216
Private                              S02    676    314       70    614   -110    217          426    234    216   -211
Other capital (net)                     21S      -4      79    291    323    541    424         -209   -366   -312   -107
Change in reserves                      -63      61    100      61    -84       11   -115        -116    -90   -298    -S5
International reserves                  772    917    614    510    540    376    440            SS6    646    944   1025
Of wiich:  Gold                      154    360    415    260    322    269    217            217    217    217    237
Reserves as inths imports               2.1    2.1    1.7    1.6    1.1    6.9    1.3             1.2    1.3    1.7    1.3
Cress disbarments                      1446   1626   1711    2347   2316        64   1266
Official Grants                      260    420      96    313    204       44      16
Concessional loans                   325    294    761      Be9    557    209    264
SAC                               91      77    100    126    125        49    145
OPEC                             169    16B    S84    746    401    11S          79
IOA                                -       -       1       1       I      1       3
Other                             45      49      76      16      30     43      57
Non-concessional loans               861   1112    354    345   1549    631    903
Official export credits             3      2      12      54    103      50    144
-8R0                              72    137       64      99    134    174    240
Other multilateral                 53      7      13    123      70      23      23
Private                          732    965    765    570   1243    363    502
Suppliers credits              10       6      12      26     52       6      16
Financial credits and bonds 722    957    753    543   1191    375    486
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   5144   6204   7109   7983   90S4   9445  10512
Official                        2476   2853   3496   4373   5004   5894   6596
Private                         2668   3350   3612   3610   4049   3552   3916
Undisbursed debt                    2284   2403   2154   3146   2487   365S8   3310
Debt service
Total service payments               548    BOI   1193   1266   1334   1120   1189
Interest                         253    412    614    634    561   S5o    603
Payments as S exports of G+S        16.5   21.7   27.3   30.6   34.7   28.6   29.2
Average Interest rate on new loans M1)  7.0    8.2    8.2    8.4   10.1    7.4    8.3
Official                                4.9    5.2    3.8    3.7    6.9    S.S    6.8
Private                                 9.7   11.1   13.4   13.7   11.8   I0.S   11.6
Average maturity of new loans (years)  13.2   15.7   13.7    9.S   11.0   1S.9   IS.7
Official                               16.3   23.7   18.6   11.6   19.7   21.1   19.3
Private                                 9.1    9.8    7.9    7.1    6.3    7.6    8.1
As % of Oebt Outstanding at End of Host Recent Year 119831
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                 4868
Maturities due within 10 years                                80.4
lnterest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                 5.9
C  Estimte
February 12. 1985
EMENA CP II-B
10 018OBp4/S



- 30 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STArEMENT Of BANK LOANS AND IDA CREOITS A'
(As of September 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                       Amount (lass cancellations)
Credit                                                                 USS Million
Number   m           Borrmwer              Purpose           kok        la       Und1sburse
Thirty one Loans fully disbursed                            822.14
Four Credits fully disbursed                                           38.62
555     1975    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                      14.0         7.59
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            41.0                  21.47
1528    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  18.0                      10.83
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            65.0                  52.64
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education             113.0                 92.94
1687    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    OFC (SSI)              18.2                   1.14
1695    1979    fingdom of Morocco    Power                  42.0                  27.83
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           49.0                  15.84
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            58.0                  36.02
S 18    1980    ONAREP                   Oil Exploration    SO.0                    0.10
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               62.0                  1S.06
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            34.0                  27.40
1943    1981    CIH                     Tourism             100.0                  45.21
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  36.0                      33.86
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                  74.43
2037    1982    BNDE                     OFC                 70.0                  57.51
2038    1932    Kingdom of Morocco    OFC (SSI)              40.0                  38.89
2082    19B2    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            29.0                  27.87
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                  9.5                   9.02
2110    1982    Kingdon of Morocco    Forestry               27.5                  25.26
2114    1982    ONAREP                   Oil Shale           20.0                  15.19
2149    i982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              50.0                  47.S9
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agrtculture            30.0                  29.35
2245    1983    CXH                      Housing Devt.       60.0                  58.21
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            42.0                  41.62
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               85.0                  84.37
2271    1983    ONAREP                   Oil Exploration    75.2                   S2.93
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                      15.92
2367    1984    CNCA                    Agric. Credit       115.4                  96.23
2377    1984    Kingdom of Morocco    Indust. & Trade
Policy Adjust.   150.4O,
Total                                                 241S.34    52.62    1065.96
of which has been repaid                             361.15      1.98
Total now outstanding                                 2054.19    50.64
Amount Sold                        20.11
of which has been repaid         20.11                 0.0      0.0
Total now held by lank and IDA                        2054.19    50.64
Total undisbursed                                                          1065 q6
NM
A/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in operation. which is updated twice yearly to
provide data as of March 31 and September 30. and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30. 19842
UIS% Million
Fiscal Year                                                    La2n      Eeutty   Total
1963/1978/1984  SNOE                 Development Bank          37.6       2.7       40.3
1966             CIL                 Canning Factory            0.9       O.5        1.4
1976             Marrakech Cement   Ceonent Factory                       1.3        1.3
1977/1980        Temara Cement       Cement Factory             4.7       3.6        8.3
1979             Agadir Cement       Cement Factory             12.S      2.2       14.7
1980             SOIFER             Copper Mining             13.0       2.3       15.3
1981/1983        Casablanca Cement  Ceonent Factory            15.A       Li        17.8
Total Gross Coamitments                                      84.5      14.6       99.1
Less cancellation. terminations. repayments and sales  41.5          -.S5       45.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                            43.0      11.1       54.1
Total Undisbursed                                                       0.3        0.3
* Agadir Cenent has been cancelled.
ID.0479Bp9/10
12/18/f4



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE
(                            MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 About 35 months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:            Charbonnages  du  Maroc  with
the assistance of consultants
(c)  Project first identified by Bank               September 1981
Cd)  Bank appraisal mission                         July 1984
Ce)  Negotiations                                   January 1985
Cf) Board presentation                              March 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
Securing of the French mixed export credit cofinancing (para.63).
(b) Condition of Disbursement
No disbursement would be made for works and equipment for the new
vertical shaft unless the Bank has approved the proposed work program for
sinking of that shaft (para. 56).
(c) Other Conditions:
(i) The Government will review domestic coal prices and consult with the
Bank on their levels, by November 30 of each year, with the
objective of maintaining the price of Jerada fines at between
85-100  of  their  opportunity  cost.   The  prices  would  then  be
adjusted accordingly (based on the price of imported steam coal) by
not later than December 31 of each year (para. 42).



- 32 -
ANNEX I Ir
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Failure to sign the German KfW loan agreement by December 31, 1985,
to satisfy all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or
disbursement by March 31, 1986, or to satisfy all conditions
precedent to effectiveness or disbursement of the funds provided
under the French credit by June 30, 1987, would constitute default
under the Bank loan (para. 63).
(iii) CdM will maintain: (a) a debt service coverage ratio of no less than
1.5 at all times; (b) a long term debt/equity ratio of no more than
67:33 until January 1, 1991; and (c) a current ratio of no less than
1.3.  CdM will also submit annually its investment program for the
Bank's review and approval (para. 66).



PORTUGAL! SPAIN                     ITALY  OGRECE                                            ._                                         *
(                                                                                                              XSPAIN
J f s .01          j TUNISIA                                                                                                               tIDF
MOROCCO                   \ i
ALGLRIA                                                                                                          TA(NOCII
_                       J }      LIIHVA      | t                                                                               A ; ,N[\L1
_ . _ \ I % -- 2-  -  8 ' r .  .    .   !   p   >  .                                                                                              ETOU-
MAU1R1TANIA |j ~ M                                                                                                            LARACHE                .T
-     L      T M   NIOER        CHAD                                                                                                     - t 
ISENEGA                                                                  *                                    $'   ---|OUEZZANF
:-101 KACEM
SALE        t                 -
RABAI
?IH^laEsK 1^1    MEKNEtA+
MAOHAMMEI~~
CASABLANCJ      t '                                  IFF4NE *
' ~~~AZFIOy
EL JADI          SERRECHIG                                       ,
M oROC O  f  e-OUED ZEM
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION                                                                          /                    i  SB_-
AND EXPANSION PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE, POWER AND CEMENT   WI                                                                                          SEMI uELLAL
32*
*    Jerad  coal mine                                                    -                    r
A    Coal fired power plants of ONE                                            *7         .
*    Cement plant of CIOR                             /                    -      RAKECH
Parts equipped for import and               X
exprrt of coal
4 -- Railways
-    Main rowds                                   )
+    Airports
Ports                                                              /ZA
*    National capItal                            -               %,       N     _
*    Provincial cspitals                    AGAIDIR4-o           OT U.A.NT-
o    Towns                                           |
Rivers                                        /
-  -  International boundaries
-  -  International boundarIs (approximate) I
* TfZNfl 
____--  Indicates Ihe territory of the former
Spanish Sahara (Wenote  SharIaJ
l.' 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~I   [   O



IBRD 18452R1
..                          db~~~~~~~~6                                                      2-
SPAIN
GIBRALTAR (U.K.)
1.;1: 11tV ON;A!A.z;V  SEA
TANOrRi.
.TErUAN
AL HOCEIMA             4
LARACHE-              CHECHAOUEN             *         NAPL"IO
fE  4    - LOUEZZANE                                          OiJjUA4,
4/  i       j      * IAtBUUNAtt IAOUNATI                      A
4 tENITRA1       ,jSIlD KACtM                  -i *.
RA EA                                         -                                       1    i  ALGER IA
MOHAMMED~  -'  -'    MEKNE!+          *sri ROU.
tt4CtAMMEO      
IF S6U1
3t4                    I               AZROY.       I.
B-ERRECHIC    -o 
SETTAT7                                /, 
SErT    ~ ~     ---#gOUED ZE-M 
'(KHO RIDGA'   x               -. .  
' KASBA - TADLA                                                                          /
1                     \   oBENI IIELLAL
EAFIACHI DIAO_
-.4 RKSCH 
)                      /' 
10 Fk                         rhis map has been prepared by
ea                                The Warwd Banr s stafl exclusiely
for fthe conver ence of the
rearers and Is excusvely o th
o V                                       internal use of The World Bank
0                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~and ftle AnIernateOnat FinanCe
p     VL                                       Corporation The denrorrunalons
used and the boundaries shown
on this mao do not imply. on the
part of The World Bank and the
InternatiOnal Finance Corporatfon.
le,                                                                                    any judgment on rhe legal status
cl any territOry or any
endorsemen-rt or acceptanice ot
such roondares
6J
JANUARY 1985



r FOFITUGAL.! SPAIN                       ITALY  a1ilrde
A 11 ANI/V.                             |.
0 Cf A N     .....-..^Adol              I  UNI5  4IA,
MOROCCO 
,- >    AI tl (.ilA  (                                                             CROSS SECTION  1                                                   E          c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    *- tj|r 
I IIJYA       a                                                                                                     -       F
I               1~~~0
MAUl1tANIA         MAI I
SENE  ALY---                                       /            1UDAN
Ft. .  I.. - V.._     r. yr.  Im..  fo -t-m.*t* _. ii*     at 
5.. .U5.. W.    .     rtpI~V. .b.5I - aD I5.,h t.y P-    U..P
Cap..yft 41 br             .       P. .W   - WP.. r  _     d t  VJ 1. .W                                                                                             0      5[C
. "-  I. PIf 1I hU.* tlts-        1     Ih      Ct-kt v* l     d IS
t* pF jaf      1   1_ snd t  -.Vb-                                                         S                                                                  _ #Met
CROSS SECTION
CROSS SECTION 1
791 800
Bassin
Nord
0.2 mt.                                                                      Sif 
ONE                                                          d
COal Powr
slogw  V Center                Wasmhng   Planit
P . s.a 6.0 Mt. Reserves                 Pan
Shell I  :                              S
(I  (D        RD  @             S    /_                                                                                                                         - 
Inc]ineV-
: :D1                   \    .
-(    j   ~~Siege V '
j0 1 4.3 Ml. Reservs,          
fj    .1it    * [l1J   T 100    (100  ?.5'00   3.U0                                    CD
Melers



IBRD 18453
~--CTION  1                                             CE   Ovuiitarden                                          CROSS SECTION 2
A
0      .(10    1 O0o
CROSS SECTION 2
- / 13X9@t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slg IVt Ertt
MOROCCO
JERADA COAL MINE MODERNIZATION
AND EXPANSION PROJECT
EXPLOITATION OF JERADA COAL BASIN
IEASTERN PORTION)
v         Mln.ld OW                                              Appmomgmate Imil of coal baSmn
Und-" -*Dpladtabon                                    Roads
r   ~t  ,,lr.* epIo?-lon IaProjrncP ..o.-fl          .      Ra,lfoads
Inlernal.onal boundarres
2.000  2.500    3.000
1       t        |                                       @      Proposed deevp  or-h -les                             Inl.,nal,onal boundarres tapprox.ma2eJ
L..: of cove, of younge, qeoiooqr-l                   Ind-cale. the le-r.lomy of Ihe to-mer
stralt  over coal bern,rg sirala                      Span,sh Sahara lWeslern Saharal
SEPTEMBER 1984






