Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18079
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3099-PH)
June 26, 1998
Health, Nutrition, Population Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1997)
Currency Unit    = Philippine Peso (P)
US $1.00         =  P38.00
P1.00            =  100 Centavos
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CARI                 Control of Acute Respiratory Infection
COA                  Commission on Audit
DBM                  Department of Budget and Management
DOH                  Department of Health
GOP                  Government of the Philippines
HIS                  Health Information System
IEC                  Information, Education and Communication
IMR                  Infant Mortality Rate
MCH                  Maternal and Child Health
MCP                  Malaria Control Program
MIS                  Management Information System
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PHC                  Primary Health Care
POPCOM               Population Commission
RHU                  Rural Health Unit
SCP                  Schistosomiasis Control Program
TCP                  Tuberculosis Control Program
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
WHO                  World Health Organization
Regional Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director     : Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager       : Maureen Law, EASHN
Task Manager         : Jayshree Balachander, EACPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3099-PH)
Table of Contents
Preface..
Evaluation Summary ............................................................                                                         ii
Part I    Implementation  Assessment .............................................................1
A.  Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ............................................................ 1I
B. Achievement of Objectives ............................................................2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................................7
D.  Project Sustainability .............................................................8
E. Bank Performance ..............................................................9
F. Borrower Performance ............................................................                                      10
G. Assessment of  Outcome .............................................................                                   10
H. Key Lessons Leamed .............................................................                                       11
Part II   Statistical Annexes ............................................................                                            12
Table  1:    Summary  of Assessment ............................................................                           12
Table 2:    Related  Bank Loans/Credits ............................................................    13
Table 3:   Project Timetable ............................................................                                 15
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................. 16
Table 5:   Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 17
Table  6:    Studies Included  in Project ............................................................                       23
Table  7:   Project Costs by Category  of  Expenditures ....................................... 28
Table  8:    Project Financing .............................................................                             29
Table 9:    Status o.l7 Legal Covenants ............................................................                       30
Table  10:  Bank Resources - Missions ............................................................                           32
Appendices ............................................................                                                               33
A. ICR  Mission  Aide-Memoire ............................................................                               34
B.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ............................................................  41
C.  Borrower's Comments to the ICR ............................................................                            60
IBRD Map No. 27553
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3099-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Development Project (PHDP)
in the Republic of the Philippines, for which Loan 3099-PH in the amount of US$70 million was
approved on June 22, 1989 and made effective on January 10,1990.
Loan 3099-PH was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place by April 30, 1998. No part of the loan was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Jayshree Balachander, Sr. Human Resources Specialist, Maria Theresa
G. Quinones, Participation Specialist, and Noel M. Sta. Ines, Procurement Specialist with the assistance
of consultants, Drs. Alberto Romualdez and Patrick Lowry. Jonathan Flavier prepared the background
paper for the community development component and Agnes Ferrer prepared the Tables. Cynthia F.
Manalastas was the Task Assistant. The ICR was cleared by Maureen Law, Sector Manager, EASHN.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the ICR mission in November 1997. The ICR benefited
enormously from the end-of-project evaluation prepared by the Upecon Foundation which included five
studies on the various components, and based on a field survey. It also used material in the project file as
well as information provided by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by stating their views as reflected in the Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), by preparing their own evaluation
of the Project's execution (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR (Appendix C).



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3099-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.   The Philippines Health Development Project (PHDP) was the Bank's first comprehensive effort to
support the Department of Health (DOH) in the Philippines, covering the key areas of disease control,
health services delivery at the field level and capacity building of the DOH. After two population
projects that performned poorly, PHDP was designed with full government ownership and a clear mandate
for the DOH.
Project Objectives
ii.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) lists six specific project objectives. The project sought to
achieve improvements in (i) the control of major communicable diseases; (ii) maternal and child health;
(iii) equity, by targeting services to underserved areas and high risk groups; (iv) partnerships among
government, NGOs and communities for health outcomes; (v) institutional capacity of the DOH; and
(vi) DOH capacity for health policy development.
iii. In the context of a logframe, these six objectives would correspond to the following three
outcomes related to the overall goal of improving the health of at-risk and underserved population groups
in the Philippines:
(i)    education in the burden of infectious diseases (41% of project costs);
(ii)   improvements in the delivery of field health services in underserved communities (44% of project
costs);
(iii)  strengthening DOH capacity to plan and manage health policies and programs (15% of project
costs).
These objectives are clear and realistic, and addressed important needs of the sector. However, the
linkages between the objectives were weak, especially during implementation  -  for example,
institutional strengthening did not directly contribute to better implementation of disease control
programs. Moreover, the multiple components to achieve each objective contributed to some complexity
and risk and this was greatly exacerbated by the devolution of health services to local governments.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv. The Disease Control Programs varied in the level of project inputs from substantial in the case of
schistosomiasis (80% of the overall country program) to negligible for the control of acute respiratory
infections (CARI) and nutrition. All components were adversely affected by lack of GOP counterpart
funds for key complementary inputs, and by the devolution of the responsibility for health services
delivery to local governments. However the problems affected some components more than others and
were managed by the components with different degrees of success. Overall, the achievement of the
disease control component was partial.



iii
v.   The project's contribution to the reduction is the incidence of malaria in the Philippines is small
since the projected expansion of vector control was not well managed while the increase in case-finding
accomplishment (from 99% to 111% of target) during the same period was not significant. The
achievement of the schistosomiasis component was substantial. The program was able to decrease the
prevalence rate from 7.5% to 3.9% in 1993. On the process side, the component was run largely as
envisaged at the time of project preparation. The component exceeded its output targets. TheTB Control
component adopted an active case-finding and treatment approach targeting the identification of 250,000
cases, providing 185,000 courses of short course chemotherapy, and achieving 100 % cure rates in the
treated cases. To this end, the component supported 310 case finding packages (CFPs) each consisting of
a medical technologist, sputum canvasser, binocular microscope and laboratory supplies. Many delays
were encountered in the procurement of drugs and microscopes and in paying salaries of the case-finding
teams. As a result, less than 50% of the case-finding target of was attained. Moreover, the lack of
effectiveness of the active case finding approach has been internationally recognized. The strategy is
now one of case-holding to ensure treatment completion. The major contribution of this component is the
excellent national survey supported by the project which will be useful for TB control planning in the
next five years. It is not possible to quantitatively assess PHDP's achievements with respect to the
control of acute respiratory infections (CARI) and malnutrition.  In relation to the rest of the
government's program, which received substantial support from other sources, the project's contribution
was small and the overall impact of these activities on the national situation was probably negligible.
vi.  Delivery of Field Health Services.  The achievement of this component was substantial.
Midwives were hired and placed in appropriate underserved rural and urban locations and were well
utilized by the client population. Although not a recipient of special training as proposed in the SAR, the
midwives performed comparably with non-project health workers. However, despite indications at the
beginning of project implementation that devolution would occur, no contingency plan was prepared to
ensure that the midwives would be absorbed by the Local Government Units (LGUs). Thus, while the
achievement of this component during the project period was substantial, sustainability is uncertain. The
Community Health Development (PCHD) component was intended to develop a partnership between the
government, NGOs and communities to expand primary health care services in remote and underserved
communities through a process approach.  Successful experiences were documented in several
communities. Remote and underserved communities were reached. Overhead costs were relatively low.
The project succeeded in leveraging funds with 50% of sub-project costs being resourced from outside
the project. However, total reach was probably too small to make an impact at the national level.
Implementation problems included delays in the release of funds, onerous accounting requirements for
NGOs from GOP auditors and lack of support from local governments. Sustaining the partnership
beyond PHDP also proved to be more difficult than anticipated.
vii. Institutional Capacity Building was negligible. The IEC and Infocom components succeeded in
installing state of the art technology and in training and familiarizing DOH staff in its use. However, the
sustainability of the facilities, most notably the multimedia center and institutionalization of the use of
information technology for management purposes is uncertain. The achievement of the other sub-
components, including training, planning, policy development and central laboratories was negligible.
Given the economic situation of the region, the election of a new government, and the changing global
health situation, the overall prospect for sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain.
viii. Key factors that affected the project implementation were: 1) the devolution of health services;
2) delays in the release of counterpart funds; and 3) weak institutional capacity. The passage of the Local
Government Code in 1991 and its implementation in 1993 had by far the most serious and lasting effect



iv
on the project.  Although the possibility of devolution was present since project inception, the
implementing agency chose to plan and implement the project as a centralized project rather than
developing a decentralized approach. The project experienced severe cash flow problems in 1991 causing
serious delays and discontinuities for the DOH in conducting activities planned and approved for
financing by the project. The size, duration and scope of the project severely taxed the management
capacity of the DOH. During the period of project implementation, there were six changes in top DOH
management. The individual DOH Secretaries' priorities in turn influenced the department's focus and
level of commitment to different project components.
ix.  Bank Performance was highly satisfactory during the preparation phase.  Appraisal was
satisfactory despite failure to identify some weaknesses in project design and to deal adequately with
concerns raised about project complexity and poor implementation capacity of the DOH.  Bank
performance during supervision was deficient mainly because PHDP supervision missions were
combined with preparation missions for, successively, the Urban Health and Nutrition Project, the
Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project and the Early Childhood Development Project, and two
sector reports. Donor collaboration was poor.
x.   Borrower Performance and participation in project preparation was excellent.  Project
implementation, however, was less satisfactory. The implementing agency largely ignored contingency
planning for devolution, even as it became more imminent. The Government failed to provide counterpart
funds as needed resulting in serious inefficiencies - for example, the lack of drugs during case
identification and insecticides during the appropriate period for vector control. The Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) was unable to enforce performance or reporting compliance from the program units.
Summary Of Findings And Key Lessons Learned
xi.  Assessment of Outcome. Overall outcome of the project may be rated as satisfactory since most
of the objectives were reached at least to some degree. The project had a positive benefit-cost ratio, even
under the most stringent assumptions, primarily as a result of the field health and schistosomiasis
components. Where objectives were not fully attained, the groundwork, in most cases, has been laid for
future planning and management.  For example, with respect to TB control, as a result of project
experiences and with the new information provided by the national survey, the DOH is well prepared to
mount a major control effort that could have substantial impact.
xii. Equity was improved, as project investments were targeted to public health services and to
underserved areas and communities. The inability of the DOH, as an implementing agency, to plan for
and cope with devolution reflects the need for strengthening of institutional capacity that was identified in
the SAR. It can be assumed that much was learned from this lesson, especially with regard to the
planning and management needs of the agency.
xiii. Key Lessons Learned. The major lesson to be learned from this project is the need to be more
aware of the political milieu, including monitoring of possible legislative actions and other developing
scenarios, while planning and implementing projects. Clearly, devolution could have been anticipated and
contingency plans developed that would have eased its impact on both DOH and project activities.
xiv. There should be strong linkages between the various components of projects. For project
management purposes, while it is not necessary (and sometimes counterproductive) to have a dedicated
project implementation staff, coordination should be at a management level and through a mechanism
capable of monitoring the performance of the different components and taking corrective action.



v
xv.  Institutional development components should include a good analysis of existing constraints, well
specified plans to achieve objectives and clear monitoring indicators. In most cases, the goals should be
focused and modest. Typical examples are management and health information systems, which are
complex and difficult to implement and where gains are often slow to be realized. These should at the
start, be simplified and succinct, more complexity can be added as the basics are understood.
xvi. Streamlining of drugs and equipment procurement and distribution, including possible
decentralization of procurement, particularly of drugs and medical supplies, must be assured before any
major public health commitment is made. The need for vehicles should be closely scrutinized during the
project designed phase. Vehicles are often not essential to project success and their purchase should be
minimized in future projects, except where the need can be specifically documented.
xvii. The Bank should budget adequate resources for supervision. While multiple task missions may be
cost-effective, particular care should be taken to ensure that all tasks, in particular, project supervision
tasks, receive due attention. Consistent performance monitoring against indicators, and follow-up and
resolution of earlier mission findings are important.
xviii. Several donors concurrently support governments for activities to achieve certain outcomes. For
example, curricula for midwives and other rural health workers have been developed repeatedly by donor
projects over the past 15 years, but seldom coordinated or even fully utilized. Such efforts in the future
should bring together major stakeholders in the planning and design stage to agree on collaborative
implementation.






I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3099-PH)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.   The Philippines Health Development Project (PHDP) was the Bank's first comprehensive effort to
support the Department of Health (DOH) in the Philippines, covering the key areas of disease control,
health services delivery at the field level and capacity building of the DOH. After two population
projects that performed poorly as a result of weak commitment on the part of government and in-fighting
between agencies dealing with population, PHDP was designed with full government ownership and a
clear mandate for the DOH.
2.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) lists six specific project objectives. The project sought to
achieve improvements in i) the control of major communicable diseases; ii) maternal and child health; iii)
equity, by targeting services to underserved areas and high risk groups; iv) partnerships among
government, NGOs and communities for health outcomes; v) institutional capacity of the DOH; and vi)
DOH capacity for health policy development.
3.  In the context of a logframe, these six objectives would correspond to the following three
outcomes related to the overall goal of improving the health of at-risk and underserved population groups
in the Philippines:
(i)   reduction in the burden of infectious diseases through disease control programs;
(ii)   increased access to health services by expanding delivery of field health services in underserved
communities; and
(ii)   institutional strengthening by improving DOH capacity to plan and manage health policies and
programs.
4.   These objectives are clear and realistic, and addressed important needs of the sector. There are
strong linkages between the objectives. The effective delivery of disease control and MCH programs
requires strong partnership among the various actors and access to services for vulnerable populations.
This in turn is predicated on strong management and planning structures within a well-designed health
policy framework at the level of the national agency. However, some of these linkages were lost sight of
during implementation - for example, capacity development in the DOH was not directed at improving
the management of the disease control programs, nor was the partnership component linked to the
delivery of the core services. Moreover, the multiple components to achieve the objectives contributed to
some complexity and risk and these was greatly exacerbated by the devolution of health services to local
governments.



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Disease Control Objective (41% of project expenditure)
5.   Summary Assessment. The disease control programs varied in the level of project inputs from
substantial in the case of schistosomiasis (80% of the overall country program) to negligible, for CARI
and nutrition (less than 10%). All components were adversely affected by lack of GOP counterpart funds
for key complementary inputs, and by devolution. However, the problems affected the components
differently and were managed with differing degrees of success. Achievement of the schistosomiasis
control program was substantial; CARI and malaria partial; and TB and nutrition, negligible. Overall, the
achievement of the disease control component was partial.
6.   Malaria (6%).    The Philippine Malaria Control Program aimed at reversing the perceived
resurgence of the disease that occurred when the old vertical malaria program was integrated into the
decentralized DOH public health structure in the 1980s. The strategy was to restore a semi-vertical
program, hiring of canvassers for case-finding (about 33% of the component costs) and insecticidal spray
teams for vector control (funded by GOP counterpart funds). The procurement of insecticides was also
supported by the project (44% of component costs), as well as the production of IEC materials.
7.   Project implementation was hindered by a number of factors. The banning of DDT in the
Philippines was an unforeseen circumstance that delayed procurement and increased costs because of the
need for more expensive alternatives. The lack of counterpart funds to hire spray teams resulted in delays
in the spraying schedules, which are crucial for effective vector control. Procurements were delayed (e.g.
insecticides ordered in 1991, arrived a year later) and when split between local and international
procurement, (e.g. the engines and hulls of pump boats), were poorly synchronized.
8.   During the project period, the incidence of malaria dropped from 14.2 per thousand in 1989 to 5.7
in 1993. However, the project's contribution to this reduction is small since, as stated above, the
projected expansion of vector control  was not well managed while the increase in case-finding
accomplishment (from 99% to 111% of target) during the same period was not significant. IEC materials
produced were of good technical quality, but their impact was not directly evaluated. While the
restoration of a semi-vertical malaria program structure was accomplished, the component failed to
achieve its intended impact.
9.   Schistosomiasis (11%).  The Schistosomiasis program was intended to decrease the prevalence
rate from 7.5 % in 1989 to 1% in 1993. The project expected to conduct 4.81 million stool examinations
and provide treatment with parziquantel for 180,000 patients. To achieve these outputs, additional
itinerant teams consisting of microscopists, public health nurses, canvassers and drivers were to be hired,
vehicles and microscopes purchased, health education materials distributed and 9 tons of snail
molluscicides applied.
10.  The achievement of the schistosomiasis component was substantial. The program was able to
decrease the prevalence rate from 7.5% to 3.9% in 1993. The reduction of 58% in 3 years is a significant
achievement even if it falls short of the SAR target. The component achieved its output targets - 5.29M
stools examined against a target of 4.81 M and 263,562 cases of schistosomiasis treated against a target of
180,000.



3
11.  On the process side, the component was run largely as envisaged at the time of project preparation.
Apart from a failure in the procurement of taxicabs and delays in the availability of IEC materials, there
were no implementation problems. The component managers also limited their losses by discontinuing
the purchase of the motorcabs and retraining the drivers as stool collectors.
12.  Tuberculosis (9%).   The National TB Control Program adopted an active case-finding and
treatment approach targeting the identification of 250,000 cases, providing 185,000 courses of short
course chemotherapy, and achieving 100 % cure rates in the treated cases. The bulk (90%) of PHDP
funds were used to support 310 case finding packages (CFPs) consisting of a medical technologist,
sputum canvasser, binocular microscope and laboratory supplies.
13.  There were many difficulties encountered during implementation. Sixty cities and 35 provinces
were eventually supplied with CFPs. However, there were mismatches in timing between hiring and
training of microscopists and the procurement of microscopes, a high turnover rate of these personnel,
adverse effects of devolution on supervision, and delays in drug procurement. As a result, less than 50%
of the case-finding target of 250,000 smear positive cases was attained and, of those treated, 87% were
cured (according to service statistics).
14.  The 1997 National TB Survey, supported by PHDP, showed some small improvements in the TB
situation in comparison to a similar survey conducted in 1988. Even these very modest gains cannot be
attributed to the project. In fact the active case finding approach adopted by the project has now been
replaced by an emphasis on case-holding to ensure treatment completion. It should be noted that this new
strategy, known as the WHO directly observed treatment strategy (DOTS), was adopted globally in 1996
or towards the end of PHDP as a result of difficulties experienced globally with the active case finding
approach.
15.  In sum, the overall contribution of PHDP toward the improvement of the national TB situation is
negligible. Its major contribution will probably be in the development of future TB control programs. In
particular, the national survey supported by the project is an excellent basis for TB control planning in the
next five years.
16.  Maternal and Child Health (5%).   Under this component, PHDP supported activities in the
DOH acute respiratory infection control (CARI) and nutrition programs. CARI aimed at reducing
mortality and morbidity due to pneumonia among children through provision of training and appropriate
antibiotics down to level of barangay health midwives. The nutrition programme's objectives included
the reduction of protein-energy and micronutrient malnutrition among children at high-risk.
17.  It is not possible to quantitatively assess PHDP's achievements with respect to the control of acute
respiratory infections. In relation to the rest of the national program which received substantial support
from other sources, the project's contribution was small. The procurement of drugs (83% of PHDP
funding for ARI) may be assumed to share in the positive effect of the program on ARI mortality. About
6% of PHDP funding for the component went toward the procurement of 80 oxygen concentration for use
at peripheral health facilities to treat serious cases of pneumonia. At the time of the PHDP evaluation
survey, only 30% of these were judged to be operational at the level intended.
18.  The PHDP Nutrition component supported the salaries of 16 nutritionists, some training and IEC,
and the purchase of micronutrients for the national micronutrient control program (ASAP). The 116
mothercraft classes conducted in 35 municipalities is well short of targets implied in the SAR. The
overall impact of these activities on the national nutrition situation was probably negligible.



4
SERVICES DELIVERY OBJECTIVE (44% of project expenditure)
19.  Summary Assessment. The objective of improving the delivery of field health services in
underserved areas was substantially achieved through the provision of midwives in remote areas and
partially achieved by partnerships with communities and NGOs. Overall, the achievement of this
component was substantial.
20.  Midwives.  To achieve project objectives, the project planned to hire midwives, initially using
project funds, and assign them to underserved rural and urban sites. The DOH would later absorb these
health workers after their effectiveness had been demonstrated and they were well established in their
work sites. The project would develop innovative and relevant programs for training of midwives and
other rural health providers. Finally, these workers were to be taught how to better collect and use data
for planning and budgeting purposes and how to motivate their clients through use of information,
education and communication (IEC) techniques and materials.
21.  The implementation of this component was both efficient and effective. Essentially, midwives
were hired and placed in appropriate underserved rural and urban locations and were well utilized by the
client population. The midwives and other health workers, although not recipients of special training as
proposed in the SAR, performed comparably with non-project health workers. However, despite
indications at the beginning of project implementation that devolution would occur, no contingency plan
was prepared to ensure that the midwives would be absorbed by the Local Government Units. At close of
project, some 25% had been absorbed and another 20% had resigned, while the future of those remaining
is in doubt. Thus, while the achievement of this component during the project period was substantial,
sustainability is uncertain.
22.  Community Health Development (PCHD).   PCHD was intended to develop a partnership
between the government, NGOs and communities to expand primary health care services in remote and
underserved communities by "raising community health awareness, and sensitizing the health delivery
system to be more responsive and creative to the delivery of basic health services." (SAR). This objective
was to be achieved through a process approach which involved planning by communities, facilitated by
NGOs, who were themselves oriented by the Department of Health (DOH).
23.  The component was launched in 4 provinces in 1990. Successful experiences were documented in
several communities. In 1992, DOH management decided to extend the component nationwide.
Meanwhile, devolution cut-off direct control of the provincial health offices by central DOH.
Responsibility for PCHD was transferred to the regional offices which lacked capacity to manage what
was essentially a community based effort.
24.  By the end of the project, the component had been implemented in 453 communities involving
304 NGO partners but the total coverage was probably too small to make an impact at the national level.
About 70% of the expenditures went directly as project grants and 78% of grants were spent on sub-
projects benefitting communities. In other words, beneficiaries at the community level received about 55
cents for each dollar spent by the component. The project succeeded in leveraging funds with 50% of
sub-project costs being resourced from outside the project. The component was in fact implemented in
remote barangays. Recipient communities were satisfied with the performance of the component.



5
25.  The main implementation problems encountered had to do with delays in the release of funds,
onerous accounting requirements for NGOs from GOP auditors and lack of support from local
governments. Sustaining the partnership beyond PHDP also proved to be more difficult than anticipated.
The achievement of objectives under the component was partial.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE (15% of project expenditure)
26.  Summary Assessment. Achievement of the institutional strengthening objective was negligible.
The IEC and Infocom components have succeeded in installing state of the art technology and in training
and familiarizing DOH staff in its use. However, the sustainability of the facilities, notably the
sophisticated multimedia center, and capacity to use information technology for management purposes is
still uncertain.  The achievement of the other components including training, planning, policy
development and upgrading of central laboratories was negligible.
27.  Infocom.  Infocom had two main elements: first, to improve communication within the DOH
through acquisition and installation of appropriate communications hardware, including computers,
radios and telephone systems; and second, to use this enhanced communication system to improve
information gathering, analysis, planning and decision making. The heart of this second element was to
establish a computerized health information system (the Field Health Services Information System or
FHSIS) that would permit rapid communication of data between various levels of the DOH throughout
the country, and encourage realistic and timely planning and management. It was also expected that the
computerization would extend to DOH administrative operations such as logistics management,
personnel, procurement and document management.
28.  The component has laid the foundation for an electronic infrastructure for DOH, but the purchase
of the equipment is too recent to institutionalize the use of information for management purposes.
Implementation was delayed as a result of administrative bottlenecks, shifting management priorities and
resistance to information technology.  Most important, use of  FHSIS that was to underpin this
component did not materialize. The FHSIS program promoted by project was complicated. Its real
purpose seemed to be to improve input to central DOH for their planning purposes. After devolution,
FHSIS was assessed by the rural health workers as not particularly useful for their new planning and
information needs. The rather negative effect of devolution on this component could have been prevented
by early contingency planning and strategy modification, indeed, this component could have been
successful if both the information and the planning (see below) elements were made more appropriate
and useful to the rural health user. Thus this achievement of this component is, at best, partial.
29.  Health Planning.   This component was designed before devolution to enhance planning
capabilities at regional, provincial and district levels of the DOH system. To this end, planning tools and
training activities were conducted or planned for all provinces. Almost all participants in these activities
submitted provincial level plans that were deemed satisfactory according to the criteria set at the
workshops. However, only a very small number (less than ten percent) were actually usable.
30.  Devolution interrupted the process of planning capacity development. Provincial level training
was discontinued and planning was limited to the regional level staff. To institutionalize the planning
process, it is in fact necessary to focus on planning capacity at the grass roots and on improving the
quality of health information. The fact that these did not occur has severely limited the impact of PHDP
in improving health planning in the country. Achievement in this component is rated as negligible.



6
31.  Training.  The training programs for midwives and other rural health workers were developed, in
some cases field tested, but largely not implemented, as was the case with curricula developed in earlier
World Bank projects (Population I and II). The curricula developed by the PHDP remains largely unused
even today within the Philippines even though by most opinions they are excellent. Much of the in-
service training for field staff was derived from vertical programs, and as such not the holistic training
which was the project's intention.
32.  The criteria for achievement of this element were not quantified in the SAR. The curricula
development effort had no effect on the project. Again, if devolution was a factor in the implementation
of this element, this could have been mitigated by early contingency planning and appropriate strategy
modification. The impact of this component is considered negligible.
33.  IEC.  The IEC component of the project was to serve both as a resource to the disease control
components and as a means of improving institutional capacity for health promotion. The existing IEC
unit of the DOH provides most of the IEC materials for disease control. The intention of the project was
to upgrade this unit to a multi-media center, capable of a providing more diversified and better quality
IEC through a much broader range of media.
34.The IEC materials developed through this component were assessed as both effective and helpful to
field health services, although sometimes delayed and often not finely tuned to the particular needs of the
province or LGU. Reportedly, there was little input from the periphery into development of such
materials. Motivational and promotional skills seemed however to be successfully taught and utilized by
the field health services staff and the disease control programs were satisfied with the materials produced.
The multi-media center was not effectively functional until the last year of the project, but appeared
poised to provide significant future assistance to DOH programs subject to DOH initiatives to sustaining
it. The impact of this component was partial.
35.  Central Laboratory. This component was part of overall plan to strengthen the DOH science and
technology infrastructure in support of its health service programs. A detailed component plan is not
available, but it appears that a number of DOH facilities were envisioned to have been upgraded
including the central laboratory, the Biologicals Production Service (BPS), the Research Institute for
Tropical Medicine, as well as the four specialized tertiary medical centers (for lung, heart, kidney, and
children's diseases). The main activities were the acquisition of equipment (71% of component costs)
and overseas training in highly sophisticated laboratory methods (e.g., polymerase chain reaction).
Acquisition of the equipment was supposed to coincide with the return of the trained staff, who would
then implement a technology transfer plan.
36.  The equipment procured vary in their degree of appropriateness and almost all are underutilized. In
some cases, they could not be installed owing to lack of appropriate work rooms. There has been
significant attrition of trained staff and there is no evidence of programs or activities to transfer skills
within the DOH system. Overall, the contribution of this project component to upgrading of DOH
laboratory capabilities is probably negligible.
37.  Health Policy. A total of 23 policy studies were carried out under the project. Of these, almost
half were in the area of health care financing. This area was also funded under a much larger grant from
USAID. All studies were carried out by non-DOH contractors and were of good quality.



7
38.  In the case of health care financing, the studies led to the enactment of landmark legislation
creating the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation which is now tasked with expanding health
insurance coverage provided under the old Medicare Law. A Health Policy Council supported under
contract by PHDP deliberated extensively on the study results during the activities leading to the law's
enactment. Unfortunately, the Council ceased to function afterward.
39.  Except for the above, the component did not have any impact on capacity building for health
policy. There is no policy formulation structure at DOH capable of commissioning, receiving, analyzing,
and using materials for designing policy options useful to the DOH management. It may in fact be
reasonable to conjecture that had such capacity been created, the impact of devolution on the role of the
DOH may have been anticipated and addressed. Recently, a new policy development staff was put in
place at DOH. Their effectiveness will depend on the importance the in-coming DOH administration
attaches to policy making. In view of the above, the achievements under this component may be
considered partial.
The Project's Economic Rate of Return
40.  An end-of-project evaluation calculated the benefit-cost for specific project activities and for the
project as a whole. The approach was to use estimates of healthy life years saved for various treatment
and prevention scenarios from earlier studies, and thus to estimate the healthy life years saved generated
by project activities. Money values were imputed for healthy life years saved using GNP per capita for a
high case scenario and income at the poverty line for the low case scenario. Data on treatment provided
for malaria, schistosomiasis, TB, and midwife services were used to calculate the healthy life years saved
as a result of project activities. In each case, benefits were calculated for a range of effectiveness, money
value of the benefits and accrual period of the benefits.
41.  Under the most conservative set of assumptions, the benefit-cost ratio for the project is 2.75, at a
12% discount rate for the total cost of the activities estimated, and 1.08 for total project costs (assuming a
zero rate of return for the remaining activities). From the individual calculations, it appears that the gains
from spending on midwives alone could more than offset the lack of benefits from all other activities.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
42.  A number of factors had significant overall effects on the project. The most significant were the
following:
43. The Devolution of Health Services. The passage of the Local Government Code in 1991 and its
implementation in 1993 had by far the most serious and lasting effect on the project. Devolution of health
services meant that the responsibility for the delivery of primary health care was transferred from DOH to
the local governments (LGUs). This resulted in breaking the direct chain of command, from DOH to the
rural health units, and changed the allocation and flow of funds for health care. Although the possibility
of devolution was present since project inception, the implementing agency chose to plan and implement
the project as a centralized project rather than developing a decentralized approach. In fact, nothing in
the project SAR or objectives would have prevented implementation of the project in such a manner as to
encourage strong but efficient and effective decentralized health services, with the DOH capacity
building oriented to its post devolution advisory and technical assistance role.



8
44.  Delays in Budget Releases and Complex Procurement Procedures. All  project  components
suffered from delays in the release of funds and the procurement of equipment, supplies and services. The
project experienced severe cash flow problems in 1991 as a result of the government's obligations to the
IMF and rigidities with respect to operating special accounts. This caused serious delays and
discontinuities for the DOH in conducting activities planned and approved for financing by the project.
There were delays in procurement and/or delivery of drugs (particularly for TB treatment),
pesticides/insecticides (particularly for malaria spraying), equipment (especially for Central Laboratory
and Infocom), training manuals and guides (for the training component) and IEC materials (for disease
control programs). Significant negative effects were observed on project activities heavily dependent on
sustained expenditures on a continuous basis, including salaries and travel allowance of casual employees
on case-finding and insecticide spraying teams.
45.  Weak Institutional Capacity. The size, duration and scope of the project severely taxed the
management capacity of the DOH. The limited monitoring and review of specific activities and poor
resolution of problems is evidence of this. During the period of project implementation, there were six
changes in top DOH management. The individual DOH Secretaries' priorities in turn influenced the
department's focus and level of commitment to different project components. For example, coordinated
development of the Central Laboratory was abandoned when the emphasis changed from high level
science and technology strengthening to a more grassroots orientation in 1992. The absence of a full-
fledged policy development staff capable of designing policy options based on alternative scenarios is
another example of institutional weakness.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
46.  Given the economic situation of the region, the election of a new government, and the changing
global health situation, the overall prospect for sustainability of the project's achievements are uncertain.
There is however considerable variation among components. The new government's stated pro-poor bias
will likely mean focused attention on problems that are perceived as strongly related to poverty.
47.  The National Tuberculosis Program is likely to receive continuing support. However, it remains to
be seen, in the light of the government's financial situation, whether the magnitude of such support will
enable the program to achieve the ambitious target of substantially controlling the problem by the start of
the 21 st century.
48.  The significant gains of the Schistosomiasis Program can be sustained if continued support for its
vertical structure is maintained. Further gains will require more attention to environmental approaches.
In this connection, the program should consider coordinating with the agricultural sector in treating the
infection in domestic animals which contribute to the survival of the parasite in the environment.
49.  Malaria control activities may benefit from the planned global effort to roll back malaria
announced by WHO in May 1998. The effect on malaria morbidity of shifting from environmental
methods such as residual spraying to individual protection such as permethrin treated bed nets needs to be
closely monitored.
50.  The MCH programs, not having received significant support from the project, are likely to be
unaffected. Nevertheless, gains achieved in immunization may be threatened by unavailability of
vaccines secondary to funding difficulties.



9
51.  It has been clearly shown in the Philippines context that midwives and other rural health workers
can be effective in providing rural health services, and that they are acceptable to those living in
underserved areas. In the long run, as LGUs consolidate their experiences and access their constituencies
needs, it is likely that they will increasingly fall back on the use of such health workers. The exposure of
so many health and other govemment workers to training in information systems and planning will likely
be the foundation for future gains in this area. However, near-term prospects are uncertain as more than
50% of midwives supported by the project had not been absorbed by local governments when the project
closed in December 1997.
52.  IEC use is likely to continue to rise. The multimedia center is now very well equipped and staffed.
The center has prepared a business plan that anticipates it will initially focus exclusively on the needs of
DOH, while exploring opportunities in other government departments or the private sector. However, the
center may not be able to sustain itself if it is subject to the same resource constraints and bureaucratic
procedures as other units of the DOH. Several options were suggested for DOH consideration to ensure
the sustainability of the center, including autonomous operation or leasing out of the facility to the private
sector including guaranteed production for the DOH.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
53.  The project was managed by a single task team from preparation till most project activities had
been fully implemented. A new project team took over in November 1994 and continued till the end of
the project. The Implementation Completion Mission and ICR were handled by a new task manager
based in the Resident Mission after decentralization of EAP.
54.  The preparation phase was characterized by close collaboration between the Bank mission and the
DOH and considerable client ownership. Bank performance was highly satisfactory during this phase.
Appraisal was satisfactory despite failure to identify some weaknesses in project design such as weak
links between the various components and to deal adequately with issues of project complexity and poor
implementation capacity (identified as major risks by the FEPS review).
55.  Even before the approval of the PHDP, the task team began focusing on building a pipeline of
health projects. Given the long period betveen the approval of the Second Population Project and PHDP
(10 years) during which in the Bank had no further involvement in the health sector, this was
understandable. However, this had the unintended result of minimizing supervision inputs for PHDP.
PHDP supervision missions were combined with preparation and then supervision mission for
successively, UHNP, WHSMP and ECD. Missions also participated in the preparation of two sector
reports - one on Family Planning and another on Devolution of Health Services. The additional tasks
were not offset to any significant degree by increasing the duration or frequency of missions.
56.  Bank performance during supervision was deficient. Supervision reports tended to not discuss all
the project components, or review design and implementation issues in any detail. Missions failed to
follow-up recommendations from one mission to the next so that a number of issues identified fell
between the cracks. Missions provided very little support, in particular, for the institutional development
component where the Borrower needed the most support. Missions also failed to collaborate effectively
with donors. USAID funded a Child Survival Project (which was managed by the PHDP PMO) and a
parallel health policy development initiative which are barely mentioned in the supervision reports. The
Italians co-financed a TB component which likewise gets no mention during supervision.



10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
57.  Borrower performance with respect to project preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. The
project addressed some of the most relevant health problems of the country and identified appropriate
structures that had to be strengthened in order to resolve them. Borrower ownership and participation in
the process was excellent.
58.  Project implementation, however, was less satisfactory. The implementing agency largely ignored
contingency planning for devolution, even as it became more imminent. For example, there was no plan
for devolution as to the future role of project midwives. It was uncertain who was to assume support of
them and after the fact agreement was hard to reach. Subsequently, training of the midwives was
discontinued and the funds used simply to provide salaries while a solution was sought. Likewise, while
FHSIS and the area-based planning effort could have been implemented in a manner to build up and
strengthen decentralized health service capability, they were really implemented as an adjunct to
centralized DOH planning and information needs. The Government also failed to provide counterpart
funds as needed resulting in serious inefficiencies - for example, the lack of drugs during case
identification and insecticides during the appropriate period for vector control.
59.  The DOH consciously chose to leave the management of the components to existing service units,
rather than direct implementation by a dedicated project staff. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was
intended to act as a service unit to meet the Bank's procurement, financial and monitoring requirements.
However, the PCU was unable to enforce performance or reporting compliance from the program units.
This was probably a result of inadequate support to the PCU from the top DOH management. In the end,
the arrangements were not enough to ensure sound project management.
60.  All legal covenants were complied with by government. However, sonie of the agreements
reached as per the SAR were inadequately pursued. One of the most significant of these is establishment
of the National Council for Health Policy Development. The Council was short-lived and focused mainly
on the issue of national health insurance. Had this Council been given a wider mandate and its
operational secretariat fully integrated within the DOH, major issues such as devolution may have been at
least deliberated upon and policy guidance more firmly given to DOH management.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
61.  Overall outcome of the project may be rated as satisfactory since most of the objectives were
reached at least to some degree. The project had a positive benefit-cost ratio, even under the most
stringent assumptions, primarily as a result of the field health and schistosomiasis components. Where
objectives were not fully attained, the groundwork in most cases has been laid for future planning and
management. For example, with respect to TB control, as a result of project experiences and with the
new information provided by the national survey, the DOH is well prepared to mount a major control
effort that could have substantial impact.
62.  Equity was improved, as project investments were targeted to public health services and to
underserved areas and communities. The inability of the DOH, as an implementing agency, to plan for
and cope with devolution reflects the need for strengthening of institutional capacity that was identified in
the SAR. It can be assumed that much was leamed from this lesson, especially with regard to the
planning and management needs of the agency.



11
H. LESSONS LEARNED
63. The major lesson to be learned from this project is the need to be aware of the political milieu,
including monitoring of possible legislative actions and other developing scenarios, while planning and
implementing projects. Clearly, devolution could have been anticipated and contingency plans developed
that would have eased its impact on both DOH and project activities. The sector work prepared by the
Bank on the subject came relatively late in the project life and was not used by the DOH for devolution
planning.
64.  There should be strong linkages between the various components of projects.  In particular,
institutional capacity building and community involvement are likely to be more successful if they are
directly linked to service delivery. For project management purposes, while it is not necessary (and
sometimes counterproductive) to have a dedicated project implementation staff, coordination should be at
a management level and through a mechanism capable of monitoring the performance of the different
components and taking corrective action.
65.  Institutional development components should include a good analysis of existing constraints, well
specified plans to achieve objectives and clear monitoring indicators. In most cases, the goals should be
focused and modest. Typical examples of such constraints are management and health information
systems, which are complex and difficult to implement and where gains are often slow to be realized.
Improvements in information collection and planning will be achieved by developing a simple product
that is immediately useful to the user, mostly health workers at the rural health units. More complexity
can be added as the basics are understood.
66.  Successful NGO and community participation requires a change in the standard bureaucratic
processes and approaches of government.
67.  Streamlining of drugs and equipment procurement and distribution, including  possible
decentralization of procurement, particularly of drugs and medical supplies, must be assured before any
major public health commitment is made. The need for vehicles should be closely scrutinized during the
project designed phase. Vehicles are often not essential to project success and their purchase should be
minimized in future projects, except where the need can be specifically documented.
68.  The Bank should budget adequate resources for supervision. While task missions which supervise
more than one project may be cost-effective, particular care should be taken to ensure that all tasks, in
particular, project supervision tasks, receive due attention. Consistent performance monitoring against
indicators and follow-up and resolution of earlier mission findings are important.
69.  Several donors concurrently support governments for activities to achieve certain outcomes. For
example, curricula for midwives and other rural health workers have been developed repeatedly by donor
projects over the past 15 years, but seldom coordinated or even fully utilized. Such efforts in the future
should bring together major stakeholders in the planning and design stage to agree on collaborative
implementation.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT (PHD) PROJECT (Ln. 3099-PH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                           Substantial                      Partial                    Negligible
Disease Contrrol (4 1%)                                                                0                              18l                          O
Malaria Control (6%)                                                                                            [ 3                          I0
Tuberculosis Control (27%)                                                                                       3                           MI
Schistosomiasis Control (22%)                                                    8                              o                            O
Mlatemal and Child Health
CARI (7%/.)                                                                O                                                            0 O
Nutrition (5%)                                                             O                               0                            Ec1
Field Srrvices Defivery (44%)                                                          181                            0                            0
Field Health Services (84%)                                                      cm                              0                            0
Community Health Deveiopment (16%)                                               0                              1i1                           0
hIstismunioal Streng1hening (15.2%)                                                    0                              0                            ER
Information System (30%/6)                                                       0                                                           0 0
Information Education and Communication (30%)                                    0                              I1                            0
Planning (13%)                                                                   0                               0                           I1
Central Laboratory (13%)                                                         0                                                          cm
Training (201%)                                                                  0                               0                            81
Health Policy Development (1.3%)                                                 0                              0                            1
B    Proiect Sustainabilitv                                                               Likely                        Unlikel[                     Uncertain
Q                              0                            cm]
C    Bank Performance                                                               Highly Satisfactory                SatisfactoN                   Deficient
Assessment                                                                                                            0                            0
Preparation Assistance                                                                                                0                            0
Appraisal                                                                              O0                                                          0
Supervision                                                                            0                              0                            Ell
D.  Borrower Performance                                                            Highly Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  Deficient
Preparation                                                                                                           03 O
Implementation                                                                         0                              O
Covenant Compliance                                                                    0                                                           0 3
E.  Asaeasment of Outcome                                                        Highly              Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory         Highly Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
D                    liD                  0                         0



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Tide                                   Purpose                          Year of Approval              Status
Major Related Projects
First Population Project    To support population and health programs in the country.      1974        Credit closed in 1982.
Ln 1035 -PH
PPAR No. 5544
3/19/85
Second Population Project   To support population and health programs in the country.      1979        Credit closed in December 31,
Cr. 0923 -PH                                                                                            1988.
PPAR No. 9380
2/15/91
Urban Health and Nutrition   To improve the health and nutrition of slum-dwellers in three  1993       Credit is scheduled
Project                     major urban areas of the country, and to build the capacity of             to close in December 31, 2001.
Cr. 2506 - PH               city and municipal govemment in these areas to plan, finance,
and implement slum health and nutrition programs.
Women's Health and Safe     To support strengthening of women's health care services       1995        Credit is scheduled to close in
Motherhood Project          (including is level referral for complicated pregnancies and               June 31, 2000.
Ln 3852 - PH                deliveries, reproductive health care and cervical cancer
screening) related institutional development of DOH, policy
research, and a fund for related community micro-projects.
Other Bank Finanlced
Projecas Supporting
Health Programs
A. Malaria Control
Medium Scale Irrigation Project To support a six year (1980-1985) development programme in              Loan closed in May 18,1981
Ln 1809 - PH                the 3 least developed provinces of Mindoro Oriental, Mindoro
Occidental, and Palawan.
***One of the components of the project is the strengthening of
the malaria control unit of the Ministry of Health in Palawan.
B. Sanitation
Rural Water Supply and      To effect full utilization of resources-money and manpower -   1982        Credit closed in July 11, 1990
Sanitation                  in the development of rural water supply and sanitation through            PCR 12/1/1991
LN 2206 - PH                institutional community development t reforms.
***The Department of Health implemented the sanitation
component of the project.
First Water Supply,         To finance rural water supply and sanitation investments       1989             Credit closed in February
Sewerage                    included in the Govemment's Water Supply Sewerage and                      1997
and Sanitation Project      Sanitation Master Plan 1998-2000.
Ln 3242-PH
***The Department of Health has the main responsibility to
carry out the project for rural sanitation development throughout
the country, including the provision of sanitary excreta disposal
facilities to some I million households.
C.  Schistosomn as lrr
| Ln. 1414 - PH                treatmnent of human cases, health education campaigns,l
l                       ~~~~~~~~~environmental sanitation drive and snail control in 19|
|                       ~~~~~~~~~municipalities in Leyte. 



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Continued)
Credit Title                                    Purpose                             Year of Approval                 Status
National Irrigation II         The project involves irrigation, rehabilitation, development and  1979          Credit closed in 1986
Ln. 1526 - PH                  schistosomiasis control through the four-pronged approach
(case-finding, and treatment, snail control, environmental
sanitation and health education
Samar Island Rural             To support large-scale mass chemotherapy, intensified             1980          Closed in 1987.
Development                    malacological surveys, health education campaign, construction
of office/laboratory buildings and provision of equipment,
vehicles, supplies/materials, drugs and consultancy studies.
Water Resources                To support the development of appropriate policy and              1996          Credit is scheduled to close in
Development Project           institutional framework to improve water resources planning                      December 31. 2002.
development and management in the country; initiating and
integrated and comprehensive approach to watershed
management; raising water use efficiency in irrigation;
improving irrigation services and improving the environment in
irrigated areas mainly by controlling schistosomiasis.
D.  Nsirilioni                     To support a part of Govermment overall ECD program and             1997        Credit is expected to close in
would consist of the service delivery, institutional                            December 31.
Early Childhood                strengthening, community partnership and research and                           2004.
Development Project            extension.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             October 5, 1988
Appraisal                                              November 7, 1988
Negotiations                                           May 17, 1989
Board presentation                                     June 22, 1989
Signing                                                November 9, 1989
Effectiveness                                          January 10, 1990
Original closing date                                  December 31, 1996
Revised closing date                                   December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97*
Appraisal Estimate       5.00    12.00   21.40   37.60   50.00   62.00   70.10   70.10
Revised                  4.00    5.92    14.15   34.79   52.26   58.17   65.51   68.27
Actual                   4.00    5.92    14.15   34.79   52.26   58.17   65.51   68.27
Actual as % of Estimate    80.00   49.33   66.12   92.53    104.52 93.82   93.45   97.38
Date of Latest           May 11, 1998
Disbursement:
*Until May 11, 1998 (Date of latest disbursement).



16
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project limplementation
Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                                           Actiual as % of
SAR/President's Report                     (SAR Target)                   Actaal                   Estimated                                          Remarks
Malaria Control Prograin
Impact indicators
Reduce malaria incidence by                        25% to 30% or 14.2/1000    5.68/1000 (1993)
(1988)to 1.5/1000(1994)
Prevenlion in dlie re-em.abli.lnieni pf enile,mciiv in
previously inaloirit-firee aIreas.
Process indicators
Case finding                                       114.5%                     156.5% (1996)
House Sprayed                                       58.2%                     70+%
Undertake annual stratification of areas                                                                                           iifonnationi inot available.
according endemicity to target areas
for the following year.
Organizalion of commuanily brigtides to                                                                                            No explicit plani to inclide social mobilization in malaria control.
eli,intaie breedinlg siles
(ourses ?f mitalairia irealmnenl                   380000                     not available
7rainng of Jalairia persminnel
Basic Malariology                                                        7                                                    The SAR specified training for the spraymzeni and suipervisors but did not specify
Malaria Microscopy                                                       4                                                    the miimber anid type of training.
Malaria Entomology                                                       2
Malaria Control Program under devolutionI
Development of IEC materials under the            niimber iot specified       110000 posters
IEC component                                                            400000 leaflets
M colics
2000 flipcharts
Operations research                                5                         0
Other Indicators (as of 12/31/96)
Purchase of Pesticides
DDT(kg)                                       650 tons                   99995                                                DDI was baninled starting 1992.
Bendiocarb (kg)                                                          18362
Deltamethrin 2.5 WP (kg)                                                 13751
Fenitrothion (kg)                                                        62957
Cyfluthrin (kg)                                                          7193                                                 Funds prograninied for procuiremeint of pennethrin
Lambdacyhaiotlhrin (kg)                                                  1571
Etofenprox 20 WP (kg                                                     23183
Pernnethrin (liters)                                                     2731
Deltainethin EC (liters)                                                 3530
Spray cans (pcs)                              1100                       800                         78
Pumpboat engines and hilils                   15                         15                           100
Utility Vehicles                              90                         90                           100
Hiring of casuials
Field Casuals                             no. not specified         548
Central Office casuals                    specified                 4



17
Table 5: Key Ildicators for Project iipicipictation (Continied)
Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                                           Actial as % of
SAR/President's Report                     (SAR Target)                   Achtal                   Estimated                                          Remarks
Schistosoiniasis Control Prograin
Impact Indicator
Reduce prevalence rate                             Froin 7.5% (1989) to 1%    3.3% (1996)
Eradication of Schistosomiasis in Bohol by 1994    100%                       100% (1994)                                          By 1996-1997, there were reports of two sniail colonies in Bohol. SCP target
4.8 1In .
Process /Idicafor
Stool Examination Done                             no. not specified          5.29 mfillion                110
Schistosomiasis cases treated                      180000                     263562                       146                     The SCP targets 112500 cases.
Itinerant teamns                                   167                        167                          100
Research                                           3                          2                           67
Oliter Indicators (as of 12/31/96)
Procurement (niclosamide)                          9 tonls                    3150 kg                     35                       The SCP targets 4300 kg.
Drugs and Medicines                                no. not specified
Praziqutantel (tins)                                                     616
Ferrous Sulfate (btls)                                                   46783
Acetainenophen (btls)                                                    6328
Dicyclomine (btis)                                                       4728
Promethazine (btls)                                                       1884
Albendazole (btis)                                                       954970
Binocular microscopes                              200                        200                          100
Motorcabs                                          167                        77                          46
Tuberculosis Control Program
lmpact Indicators
Reduction in the TB Prevalence rate of spitim (+)  50% or from 6.6/1000        2.8/1000 (1995)
cases by                                           (1983) to 2.7/1000 (1993)
Reduction in TB mortality rate by                  40 % from 54.6/100000       36.7/ 100000 (1993)
(1986)to 32.2/100000
Reduction in the anniual risk of infection         2.4 % to 1.8 %.             Not available
Proce.ss ondicalors
Casefinding (Sputum + discovered)                  635681                      424000                     67
Establish microscopy centers                       500                         0
Binocular microscopes                              800                         310                        39                       There is a total of 875. PHDP fuinided 3 10. The rest camne from Italian grant and
WHO



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Iniplemiieitationi (Cojittilled)
Key Implementation Indicators in                  Estimated                                             Acttal as % of
SAR/President's Report                      (SAR Target)                    Actiual                   Estii ated                                         Remarks
Case finding packages                               no. inot specified           3 10
Other lidicators (as of 12/31/96)                                                                                                     Additional quiatity proctired
Dnig for Sbort Course Cheinothierapy                185000 cotirses              196800                                               in 1997
Type I                                         of short-couir se            575600                                                Repirograiimmed for putirchase of other equtipment.
Type 11                                        chetinotilerapy
Workshops/training
TB Coordinators                                  6                                                         t o00
Microscopy                                       1                           6                            100
Intemnational Training                                                                                                                CotidLcted in 1997.
Printing of IEC materials                           4
National Prevalence Stirvey                         I                            I                            100
Malernal Atid (Clild Healtlt
Establishment of classification systetn
to identify higli-risk chitldren and barangay
Monthly growth and healthi monitoring of identified
high risk groups
Simplified procedure in detectiig and inanagimtg ARI   no. iot specified       16
Etnployment of Nutritionist-dieticians
For CARI
Other Indicators (as of 12/31/96)                   no. 'iot specified         0                                                      Not proctired dtue to bid failire.
Procurement of Drugs                                                           0
Benzyl Penecillin (Btls)                                                   264983                                                 Ftiunds were reprogratinted to other activities.
Chloramphenicol (Btis)                                                     264965
Benzyl Penecillin (vials)                                                  75
Chloramphenicol (Btls)                                                     14112
Cotrimnoxazole (Btis)                                                      80
Ferrous Sulfate drops (Btis)                   not specified              --                            --
Oxygen Concentrators                                not specified
I Minute Thner                                                                 3                             100
Training                                            3                          16                             100
Conduct of Suipervisory Skills Courses         16                          7                             100
Pnuemnonia Management Course                   7                           5000                          100
Refresher Course for Midwives                  not specified               750                           100
Reprodtiction of IEC Materials                                                 2                             100
Treatment Chart                                                            10                            100
Video tapes                                                                2000                          100
Video Guide materials                                                      14                            100
Lecture slides Prescription Kits               tiot specified
Conduct of Pnuemonia Awareness with promotion



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Contitiiied)
Key Implementation Indicators in                  Estinated                                           Actial as % of
SAR/President's Report                     (SAR Target)                    Acttial                  Estimated                                         Remarks
For Nutrition
Other Indicators (as of 12/31/96)
Mothercraft classes conducted                      no. not specified          116
Mothercraft Nutrition Centers                      no not specified           32
Micronutrient Supplemientatiom
Iron (Btis)                                   no. not specified          222000
Vit A. (Btis)                                                             11310
Iodine (cans)                                                            898
Weighing scales
Technical Assistance
Development of Comprehensive Nutrition
program
Packaging of CNP to Local Government
Development of prototype weighing Scales                                 3
CBMP training                                                                 39
ASAP Orientation training                                                     127
Sets of IEC Materials printed                                                 2                                                     Coniceintrated oni printing RHU Trainers Guide and RHU Guidebook
Studies                                                                       2
Field HealtIh Serices
Hiring and deploymnent of midwives in hard to reach  2000                     2475 (1991)                                           In the SAR, this was also mentioned uinder MCH.
areas                                                                         1353 (1997)
Upgrading of RHUs and additional yearly allocation  300 (starting nimber)     No infonnation
Infor,ual ion, Eiducation, (C'onwnunicalion
Development of an integrated IEC capability
Increase availability of IEC materials                                                                                              There was delayed receipt of IEC materials among the various health service or
Uiniits.
Establishment of Multi-Media Center                                                                                                 Delayed establishiment and completion (1995-1997).
Information and (Comn,n,uicalion, System
Expansion and comptiterization of FHIS                                                                                              Onice initiated, failed to take off siuccessfilly due to delays in computerization
etfort. With (levolitioni, suistainiability of FHSIS is dotibtfil.
Development of DOH MIS                                                        280 inits                                             Comiiplied. Iiipact iiot yet kinowni.
Provision of packet radio stations                 686                        32                                                    Stopped. Encouinitered atmospheric interferenice.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project limplemilenitationi (Conitinied)
Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                                            Actuial as % of
SAR/President's Report                     (SAR Target)                    Actual                   Estimated                                         Remarks
Establishment of GIS
Establishment of PABX System at the Central office                                                                                  Complied biut stistainable dtie to lack of trained staff.
Acquisition and distribution of computer equipment                                                                                  Comiiplied
and software at various DOH units
Internet Connection at the Central                                                                                                  Complied
Office
Acquisition and distribution of single scale baud,                                                                                  Comilplied
cellular phones, and fax machines at variois D01H
units
l'la,m,mi,,g
Development of organizational and coordination skills
for health planning and programming.
Planning seminars                                                                                                                   Complied.
Establishment of Area-Program Based Health                                                                                          Madc iicffcctive by devolitioii.
Planning
(entral laboratory
Provision of modem equipmcnt                                                                                                        EqLipmellt puirchased were appropriate but used only to 20 % to 30 % of
capacity.
Staffing of competent technologist                                                                                                  Comiiplementary staff found inadeqLiate; tranisfcr of knowledge from foreign
traininig was not comnplete
Foreign fellowships                                39                        complied buit actuial uimiuiber
niot available
7riaining
Reorientation of DOH training
Naumiber of PHO staff trained declined from  1993 to 1996.
Development of basic, advanced and specialized
courses for key DOH staff
Provision of basic training equipment
Support technical assistance to develop new                                                                                         Complied.
curriculum for new training scheme



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project himplemiientationt (Continued)
Key Implementation Indicators in              Estimated                                          Actual as % of
SARlPresident's Report                   (SAR Target)                  Actual                  Estimated                                       Remarks
Conmmunity Health D)erehippmenl                                                                                               Local Govemcment uiiiits were in general not active partners.
Grants awarded                                                           453 (worth PI I 8 million
Worth P85 million
Attracted counterpart contributions from community
members and NGO/PO partners.
Families reached                                                         37000
Health Policy
Establishment of National Council for Health Policy  I                    I                           100                     No sustainiability; short-lived.
Development
Conduct of studies                                                        23



22
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose/Objective               Status                Impact of Study
A. Studies on Tuberculosis
National Tuberculosis            To estimate the magnitude of the  Completed         Used as guide in planning for
Prevalence Survey                TB problem in the urban poor                        Tuberculosis Control Program.
settlements in Metro Manila,
Metro Cebu. and Metro Cagayan
de Oro and to determine whether
residents of urban poor settlements
constitute a more vulnerable
segment of the urban population.
B. Studies on Schistosomiasis
Evaluation of Schistosomiasis    To determine the status and the  Completed          Used as guide in planning for the
Control Program                  impact of Schistosomiasis Control                   schistosomiasis control program.
Program brought about by the
changes in policies, strategies,
financial and logistic support.
management and other factors
affecting the program.
Focus Group Discussion (FGD)     To assess the KAP on schisto-    Completed          Findings serve as inputs to the design
and Knowledge. Attitudes and     somiasis control program of the                     and development of implementation
Practices (KAP) in the Island of  population in the target endemic                   strategies for the eradication project.
Siargao on Schistosomiasis       areas, other psychological factors
Control Program                 that are ingrained among the
people, and some socio-cultural
determinants existing in the area.
C. Studies on Malaria
Testing of New Anti- Malaria Drugs                                Not Conducted
Screening an testing of
Alternative Insecticides                                          Not Conducted
Vector Control and                                                Funded by another
Surveillance Activity                                             Institution.
Altemative Malaria Control                                        Not Conducted
Measure
Community Based Approaches to                                     Not Conducted
the Control of Malaria
D. Maternal and Child Care
Studies (Nutrition)
Design and Installation of Reliable   To provide an assessment of the  Completed     A software on the prevalence of
and Accurate Monitoring of       current activities undertaken by the                nutrition deficiency disorders have
Micronutrient Malnutrition       Nutrition Service with regard to its                been developed and planned to be pilo
Food and Micronutrient program as                  tested in LGUs who can provide
well as its Food Fortification Program              hardware counterpart.



23
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (Continued)
Study                        Purpose/Objective               Status                Impact of Study
Effect of Nutrition Classes in the  To determine the efficacy of nutrition Completed  Production of IEC materials as one of
Nutritional Status of Malnourished   classes in increasing the knowledge             outputs the study is underway.
Pre-schoolers in Bukidnon        and modifying behavior of
households (specifically cares of pre-
schoolers) to improve the nutritional
status of malnourished pre-schoolers.
Community Health Development
Studies
Partnership Building and Planning    To assess the accomplishment of    Completed    Input to future plans.
for Community Health             performance of areas under PCHD.
Development: PCHD Experiences
A State of the Art Review of     To draw generalizations on the   Completed
Primary Health Care in the       performance and implications of the
Philippines                      Primary Health Care.
PCHD Appraisal Report - Part III   To summarize data from the semi-
annual reports on the PCHD activities
in Camarines Sur and Agusan del
Norte
F. Health Policy Studies
Beneficiaries
A Demographic, Epidemiologic     To provide information on health    Completed       Provides a background for realistic
and Socioeconomic Profile of     care beneficiaries.                                 health care policies
Health Care Beneficiaries in the
Philippines
Epidemiologic Trends of Selected    To study the trends of the     Completed         An input in identifying the most cost-
Diseases in the Philippines, 1965-    epidemiologic profile of the                   effective health programs.
1990                             population.
Pattems of Health Care           To study the health seeking      Completed          An input in health care financing
Expenditures, Utilization        behavior of sample Philippine                       policy reforms.
and Demand for Medical           households.
Care in Sample Philippine
Households: Evidence
from Primary Data
Health Care Financing for the    To compare eight different       Completed          An input in identifying health care
Rural Poor: Findings from a      residential/occupational                            needs, attitudes and financing
Survey Study                     "communities," all of which can be                  strategies of the rural poor.
classified as falling within the
general category of the rural poor.
Special Beneficiary Groups: The  To determine the socio-economic    Completed        Provides baseline information as
Urban Poor                       condition in relation to health care                regards two communities and presents
of the urban poor communities of                    various factors that have to be
Apelo Cruz, Pasay and Bagbag,                       considered in coming up with a more
Novaliches.                                         viable and substantial health care
financing scheme.
Health Manpower                  To provide an inventory of existing  Completed      To aid policy makers in planning and
manpower personnel and an analysis                  providing market incentives to correct
Health Manpower: Profile and     of the factors affecting health                     manpower imbalances.
Market Analysis                  manpower supply and demand.



24
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (Continued)
Study                         Purpose/Objective                Status                 Impact of Study
To provide analyses of the factors
Analysis of Health Manpower       affecting physician productivity  Completed           An input to reform proposals.
Behavior: Physicians and Dentists   and prices of their services at the
clinic. their willingness to
participate in financing schemes
and their career decisions.
Health Facilities and
Pharmaceuticals
Anaiysis of Supply and Market for   To analyze supply and market for    Completed       An input to reform proposals.
Health Care Facilities            hospital services.
Estimating a Translog Variable    To estimate a structural cost     Completed           [nitial step at redressing both a
Cost function for Sixty-Five      function for Philippine hospitals.                    research and policy gap in the health
Hospitals in the Philippines                                                            sector of a developing country.
A Study of Philippine Hospital    To understand better the nature of    Completed       Input to planning and financing
and Manaaement and                management of Philippine Hospitals                    services within the hospital sector.
Administrative Systems            under different ownership. economic
environment. size and capability
and the role of management in the
success or failure of hospitals in
providing services of acceptable
standard quality .
Costs of In-patient Hospital Care  To examine cost of hospital illness   Completed      Input to planning and financing
for Bronchopnueumonia             on individuals and the impact of                      services within the hospital sector.
and Acute Myocardial Infraction   hospital on the patient's health
in Manila                         status.
A study of Primary Health Care   To review researches on the cost of  Completed        Input into reform proposals.
Services In the Philippines       providing health services.
l Mledicare I
The Performance of Medicare 1:    To answer: Who benefits from      Completed           Input in designing new policy and
An Economic Evaluation            Medicare and who pays for these                       program options for Medicare program
services?
Evaluation of Medicare 1:         To generate information needed in   Completed         Input in designing new policy and
Administrative Issues             developing altemative strategies in                   program options for Medicare program
coverage pricing, in the context of
organizational reform.
Medicare 1:                       To provide the Philippine Medicare  Completed         Input in designing new policy and
Evaluation of Aitemative Reform   Commission with short run and long                    program options for Medicare program
Measures                          run altematives aimed at improving
the performance of medicare in terms
of efficiency and equity.



25
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (Continued)
Study                         Purpose/Objective                Status                 Impact of Study
Health Care Financial System
Assessment of Public Health
Spending                                                            Completed
Analysis of the Sources and Uses    Concemed with tracing out the   Completed           Inform government policy directions
of Local Health Expenditures      pattern of sources of and uses of                     under devolution.
primary health care expenditures
of the local government units and
analyzing the efficiency and equity
implications of the established trends
of local health care expenditures.
An Analysis of the Sources and    Concerned with tracing out the    Completed           Inform government policy directions
Uses of Local Health              pattem of sources of and uses of                      under devolution.
Expenditures In the Philippines*  primary health care expenditures
of the local government units and
analyzing the efficiency and equity
implications of the established trends
of local health care expenditures
Health Care Financing
Environment
Evaluation of the Potentials of   To determine whether and how      Completed           Input into health care financing reform
Private Insurance Industry as a   private health insurance can be a
Source of Health Care Funds in    significant source of health care
the Philippines.                  financier in the Philippines and to
determine how private health
insurance can be regulated and
promoted as an industry.
Case Study of Community           To look into the existing financing   Completed       Provides baseline data on the factors
Health Financing in Region Xl     schemes of communities in the                         and process that enabled the setting up
region, particularly on the factors                   of community financing schemes that
that enable them to set up a                          serves as input to health care financing
sustainable self-managed system                       planning and reforms.
whereby they can generate
resources to finance the health
services needed by the members.
Aspects of Medical Instruments,   To construct a profile of the     Completed
Equipment and Technology in the    medical instruments and equipment
Philippines                       sector and to identify policy issues
related to the acquisition, diffusion
and the use of medical instruments
and equipment in the Philippines.



26
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (Continued)
Study                        Purpose/Objective               Status                Impact of Study
An Analysis of the Effect of     To provide an analysis of how the    Completed      Provide baseline information on the
Regulatory Environment on the    current legal and regulatory                        legal and regulatory environment
Health Sector                    environment affects incentives, the                 affecting the health sector.
supply of health care products,
facilities and manpower, the
efficiency of resources as well as
the distribution of financing costs
and benefits.
Planning Model
Planning Model for Health Care   To provide an analytical and     Completed          Provide a planning model that aid
Services and Financial Resources:   empirical model on health care                   analyst and policy makers in
A Health Care Simulation Model    services and financial resources.                  addressing issues involving substitutio
between different health care services.
public sector services, and provision o
health care services.
G. End-of-Project Evaluation
Studies
Project Effects on  Household    To determine how PHDP affected    Completed         An input to the ICR.
and Communities                  accessibility, coverage, and
utilization of health care services
covered.
Project Effects on Field Health  To examine effects of PHDP on the  Completed        An input to the ICR.
Services Delivery Outlets        performance of BHSs. RHUs, and
PHOs.
Project Effects on the Central and    To determine PHDP 's effects on  Completed     An input to the ICR.
Regional Offices of the DOH      selected central and regional offices.
Economic Analysis of PHDP        To determine how well PHDP       Completed          An input to the ICR.
helped sourced funding for public
health programs.
Public Health Impact of the      To analyze public health impact  Completed          An input to the ICR.
Project's Disease Control        of PHDP.
Interventions
Organizational Impact of Project's  To evaluate the observed contri-  Completed      An input to the ICR.
Institutional Development        bution of interventions on the
Intervention                     administration and direction of the
now devolved public health network.



27
Table 7: Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Appraisal Estimate                              Actual/Latest Estimate
GOP      IBRD      Italian    Japan    Total     GOP       IBRD     Italian    Japan     Total
Strengthening DOH Impact
Programs
Malaria Control Program       5.97     13.82     0         0.0047    19.7947             10.21              0.0047     10.2147
TB Control Program            2.05     4.75      8.1       0.0021    14.9021              6.09    8.1       0.0021     14.1921
Scistosomiasis control program  2.5077   5.79    0         0.0023     8.3                6.46               0.0023      6.4623
Matemal & Child health.       0.8969   2.1       0         0.0031     3                   3.42              0.0031      3.4231
Strengthening DOH Inst. Capacity
DOH Information System        0.57     2.65      0         0.58       3.8                2.21               0.54        2.75
Regional/ Prov. Health Planning  0.449    1.1    0         0.051      1.6                 0.17              0.057       0.227
Field Services                5.07     11.73     0         0         16.8      22.5      25.84                         48.34
Central Laboratory            0.69     1.6       0         0.00002    2.29002             1.8               0.0002      1.8002
Project Management            0        0         0         0.84       0.84                0                 1.468       1.468
Info. Educ. & Communication   0.63     1.47      0         0.0033     2.1033              2.7               0.0032      2.7032
Training of DOH Staff         1.75     4.75      0         0.302      6.802               2.15              0.333       2.483
Evaluation                    0.96     0.34      0         0          1.3                 0.13                          0.13
Project Preparation / Start up  1.75   0         0         1.134      2.884               0                 1.144       1.144
Community Health Development
Community Health Development    1      5.89      0         0.455      7.345               5.63              0.407       6.037
Fund
Community Health Systems Support 1.5   0         0         0          1.5                 0                             0
Policy Development            0.17     0.42      0         0.005      0.595               1.4               0.005       1.405
Price Contingencies           0        13.69     0         0.9       14.59                0            _                0
Total                        25.9636   70.1      8.1       4.28252  108.4461   22.5      68.21    8.1       3.9696    102.7796



28
Table 8: Project Financinig
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
Local     Foreign    Total       Local     Foreign       Total
IBRD                     39.2       30.9         70.1     42.83       25.38        68.21
Japanese Grant             2.5        1.8         4.3      0.26        3.71         3.97
Italian Grant             0.2         7.9         8.1      0.2         7.9          8.1
Government of the Philippines 25.9               25.9     22.5                     22.5
TOTAL                   67.8       40.6        108.4     65.79       36.99       102.78



29
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present   Original    Revised               Description of            Comments
type     Status  Fulfilment Fulfilment                Covenant
Date       Date
LOAN        Sch.    10, 05     C                               The Borrower shall take necessary steps  Complied
5, I(a)                                            to establish and adequately staff a Project
Co-ordinating Unit in DOH, appoint a
Project Coordinator with qualifications
and terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, and designate officials responsible
for Project implementation in each
implementing DOH division.
LOAN        Sch.    10, 05     C                               The Borrower shall, during the Project   Complied
5, 1 (b)                                           implementation period, maintain the
Project Coordinating Unit referred to n
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph with
appropriate powers, staff and resources.
LOAN        Sch.    10, 05     C                               The Borrower shall establish a community Complied
5.2                                                health development fund by January 1,
1990, in accordance with procedures and
operating guidelines agree with the Bank.
LOAN        Sch.    10, 03     C                               The Borrower shall issue regulations,    Complied
5.3                                                agreed with the Bank and endorsed by
such departments and agencies of the
Borrower as shall be appropriate, setting
out conditions for distribution of funds for
the Project, including the approval and
distribution of grants under the Part C of
the Project.
LOAN        Sch.    10,03                                      The Borrower shall enter into agreements Complied
5.4                C                               with selected non-governmental and other
community-level organizations, selected
in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision
of services by such organization in
carrying out Part C of the Project.
LOAN        Sch.    10, 05     C                               DOH shall, by March 1, 1990, issue a    Complied
5.5                                                directive agreed with the Bank to
designated provinces requiring such
provinces to develop a provincial health
plan to be submitted to DOH by October
30, 1990.



30
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Comments
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                      Description of
type      Status   Fulfilment  Fulfilment                  Covenant
Date        Date
LOAN         Sch.     10, 05      C                                  The Borrower shall, by January I , 1990, Complied
5.6                                                    establish and adequately staff, and
thereafter maintain, a committee for
Community Health policy with terms of
reference agree with the Bank.
LOAN         Sch.     10. 05      C                                  The Borrower shall, by March 1, 1990,    Complied
5.7                                                    establish, and thereafter maintain, a
National Council for Health Policy
Development with terms of reference
agreed with the Bank.
LOAN         Sch.     10, 09      C                                  The Borrower shall review with the bank, Complied
5.8                                                     not later than October of each year of
project implementation, the health
programs and activities supported by the
Project.
Covenant types:
Accounts/audit
Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
Flow utilization of project funds
Counterpart Funding
Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
Environmental covenants
Involuntary resettlement
Indigenous people
Monitoring, review and reporting
implementation
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
Other
Status:
C      - Complied With
CD    - Complied after delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON  - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD   - Not Yet Due



31
Table 10: Bank Resotirces: Missions
Perfonstatice Rating /2
Stage of Project                 MontiuI                Number of               Total                   Specialized                                                                                  Types of
Cycle                         year                   persois              Days in                   Staff Skills               Ilmplemelitatiois              Development                      Problems/3
Field                Represented /I                    Results                     Objectives
|Supervision I               Oct/Nov 1989                 3                    17                    TM, PH, FMP, MIS                I
(Launching)
Supervision 2                Nov/Dec 1990                 3                    19                    TM, PH, MIS                     I                            I                            S, TR, CL
Procurement                  May 1991                     I                    II                    FMP                             Not Applicable              Not Applicable
Supervision 3                Jun/July 1991                2                   29                     TM, PH                          I                           I                             S, TR, FP, AF
Supervision 4                Nov/Dec 1991                 4                    17                    TM, PH, MIS, CPS                I                            I                            S, TR, FP, AF
Supervision 5                July 1992                    2                    19                    TM, PH                          2                            I                            AF, TR, PR, FP
Supervision 6                Jun/Jul 1993                 3                    20                    TM, PH, FMP                     2                            I                            AF, PR, TR, S, FP
Supervision 7                September 1994               i                    16                    FMP                             S                           HS                            AF, PR, TR, S, FP
Supervision 8                Nov/Dec 1994                 3                    16                    TM, PH, M                       HS                          HS                            TR
Supervision 9                Jlme 1995                    3                    17                    TM. PH, M                       HS                          HS                            TR
Supervision 10               Febniary 1996                4                    18                    TM, TS, IEC, M                  S/4                         S/4                           TR
Supervision II               July 1996                    4                    13                    TM, TS, IEC, M                  S                           S                             TR
Supervision 12               Nov/Dec 1996                 4                    I I                   TM, TS, IEC, M                  S                           S _
Procurement                  December 1996                2                    10                    FMP                             Not applicable              Not applicable
Supervision II               July 1997                    5                    17                    TM, M&E, TS,                    S                           S
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   IE C ,  M
Completion                   December 1997                5                    15                    TM, PH, CPS, FMP                S                           S                                                  .
/t  CPS = Community Participation Specialist, FMP  Finance/manageinvnt/procurement, IEC  Information, Education. Communic;tios Specialist. M= Mantagemitenti MIS  Maniagemiient Inforimiationt Specialist, PH = Public Health Specialist. TM   Task Manager
/2   1 =No significant problems, HS = Highly Satisfactory. S = Satisfactory Please Note tiat the HS/S ramiking codes were utitlized starting witlh Stpervisiolt 7.
/3 AF = Avaitability of Funds, CL = Compliance with Legal Covenants. FP= Financial Perfornance,
PR = Prouremmnt Process, S = Studies Proress. TA = technical Asistance progress, TR Training Progrss. Pmbletn areas indicated are based oni a raiing olter thait I froitt the respective Fortn 590s; Except for "AF" whiich was rated 3 during Supervision 5, all the
rest were rated 2.
/4  Ratings w   changed from previous 590's"US" following clarification from EAIDR thatan "S" rating was tobeconsidered the norm, with "HS" reserved for proiects that were outstiding itt every way. An "S rating is therefore appropriate forthis project.






32
APPENDICES






Annex A                              33
THE PHILIPPINES HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW MISSION
November 24-December 5,1997
Aide-Memoire
I.   INTRODUCTION
A World Bank Implementation Completion Review (ICR) Mission for the Philippines Health
Development Project took place from November 25-December 5, 1997. The mission comprised the
following: Messrs./Mmes: Jayshree Balachander (Task Team Leader), Noel Sta. Ines (Procurement
Specialist), Tere Quinones (Participation Specialist) - (from the World Bank Resident Mission, Manila);
Drs: Self (Communicable Diseases Specialist) and Dongil Ahn (TB Specialist) - Regional World Health
Organization Office, Manila.
The mission held discussions with the Project Coordinator and (current and some former) staff of
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and the following DOH programs: TB, Malaria; Schistosomiasis;
Nutrition; Maternal and Child Health; Training; IEC; Area-based Planning; Management Advisory
Service; and Central Labs. The mission also participated in a workshop to discuss the preliminary end-
of-project evaluation prepared by UPECON. The mission would like to record its appreciation for the
cordial cooperation extended by the PCU in facilitating the work of the mission.
lI. OVERALL ASSESSMENT
The previous mission had pointed out certain constraints in evaluating project outcomes, most
notably the absence of baseline data, the difficulty in identifying inputs at the field level as PHDP-
financed, and the lack of a household/beneficiary survey. However, the UPECON end-of-project
evaluation was well conceptualized and provides considerable insights into the processes and likely
outcomes of the project. The first draft of five separate studies were available to the mission. The
mission concluded that the project had a satisfactory outcome overall, with a better implementation
record than the two previous population projects financed by the Bank, and a positive rate of retum, as a
result, in particular, of the Field Health Services and Schistosomiasis components. There were, however,
several inefficiencies in the use of inputs, particularly as a result of delays in the release of counterpart
funds. The sustainability of the project is also uncertain, particularly with respect to its most successful
component - the recruitment of midwives for underserved areas.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The PHDP SAR lists six specific project objectives, which for the purposes of evaluation, could be
more appropriately grouped into the following three categories:
(i)  reduction in the burden of infectious diseases;
(ii) improvements in the delivery of field health services in underserved communities; and
(iii) strengthening DOH capacity to plan and manage health policies and programs.
The project was largely intended to finance DOH-led responses to an increase in the incidence of
communicable diseases, limited reach of health services to poor communities and institutional
weaknesses. The objectives were appropriate at the time of project preparation. The devolution of the



34                                 Annex A
responsibility for health services to local governments in 1991, however, affected project strategies for
achieving these objectives, particularly with reference to the role of local governments, which did not
have significant responsibility for health services at the time of project preparation. The design of the
institutional strengthening component was weak in identifying existing constraints in the DOH.
IV. PROJECT EXPENDITURES
The project did not encounter any problems with the absorption of funds and is expected to be
almost fully disbursed by December 1997. More than 86% of project funds were disbursed between 1992
and 1994. The one year extension period was mainly intended to enable the completion of the Multi
media Center. Annex I shows the final allocation of resources for the various project components
compared with the SAR projections.
About 40% of project funds were spent as planned, on the disease control programs. Field health
services more than doubled its intended allocation from 15% to 37%. The components that did not spend
the original allocations were malaria (mainly as a result of the banning of DDT in 1992), training (several
activities were not undertaken), Infocom and planning. Principal gainers were schistosomiasis and field
health services. Expenditures by category were mainly devoted to DOH field personnel (47%), technical
consultancy (9%), vehicles (8%), pesticides (8%), drugs and medicines (7%), equipment (6%).
V. COMPONENT WISE PERFORMANCE
Disease Control Programs
Malaria
The Malaria component was intended to reverse the resurgence in the disease by revitalizing the
malaria control program and reducing the Annual Parasite Incidence from 14.2/1000 in 1988 to 1.5/1000
in 1994 and to prevent the re-establishment of endemicity in malaria-freed areas. Project strategies
included site-specific measures, mainly vector control and case-finding, and health education.
Morbidity and mortality from malaria have shown a decreasing trend through the project period,
but it is difficult to ascribe causality to PHDP. The expected target of an API of 1.5 could not be
achieved.
The component encountered a number of administrative problems in implementation. These
included: delays in the crucial spraying schedule as a result of delays in the purchase of insecticide
(primarily as a result of the banning of DDT in 1992); and delays in the release of funds to the spraying.
For the purchase of boats, engines were procured about two years before funds could be released for the
purchase of hulls. The hiring of canvassers did not result in a substantial increase in case-finding,
probably because of the lack of microscopes and microscopists.
The achievement of objectives under this sub-component was negligible. Towards the end of the
project, GOP shifted to a more cost-effective strategy emphasizing personal protection and bednets. With
local government and NGO cooperation there have been some successes with community vector control.



Annex A                               35
Schistosomiasis
The Schistosomiasis program was intended to decrease the prevalence rate from 7.5 % in 1989 to
1% in 1993. The project expected to conduct 4.81 million stool examinations and provide treatment with
parziquantel for 180,000 patients. To achieve these outputs, additional itinerant teams consisting of
microscopists, public health nurses, canvassers and drivers would be hired, vehicles and microscopes
purchased, health education materials distributed and 9 tons of snail molluscicides applied.
The program was able to decrease the prevalence rate from 7.5% to 3.9% in 1993. The reduction
of 58% in 3 years is a significant achievement even if it falls short of the SAR target. The component
achieved its output targets - 5.29M stools examined against a target of 4.81M and 263,562 cases of
schistosomiasis treated against a target of 180,000.
On the process side, the component was run largely as envisaged at the time of project preparation.
Apart from a failure in the procurement of taxicabs and delays in the availability of IEC materials, there
were no implementation problems. Even in these cases, the component managers limited their losses by
discontinuing the purchase of the motorcabs and retraining the drivers as stool collectors.
PHDP provided about 80% of the total funding for the component and sustainability is an issue.
Involving the local governments in IEC and stool collection, and massive treatment in endemic areas are
approaches that could help sustain the achievements of this component.
Tuberculosis
The national TB program overall was expected to reduce the prevalence of sputum positive cases
by 50%; reduce TB mortality by 40% and reduce the annual risk of infection from 2.4 to 1.8%. Towards
this goal, the PHDP TB component targeted an increase in the identification of TB positive cases from
160,000 to 250,000 and an increase in the cure rate from 36% to 100%. The project would provide funds
for: a) microscopy centers; b) recruit and train 310 microscopists and sputum canvassers; c) provide
drugs (185,000 courses of short-course chemotherapy); and d) selected staff travel and supervision costs.
These inputs were appropriate given the identified weaknesses of the existing program including lack of
skilled personnel, microscopes and drugs.
A National TB survey conducted towards the end of the project showed that (after adjusting for
methodological differences) there was a reduction of 37% (or 25%?) in the sputum positive cases and
there was practically no change in the annual risk of infection.
According to service statistics of the TB program, about 110,000 smear positive cases were
identified each year between 1990 and 1992 or less than 50% of the target. Treated cases were reported
to be 87% on average from 1990-95.
In terms of inputs, almost 90% of PHDP funding for the component went to the 310 case-finding
packages (CFPs) consisting of a medical technologist, sputum canvasser, a binocular microscope and
laboratory supplies. Sixty (60) cities and 35 provinces received CFPs. (The Italian Government co-
financed the TB program in Regions V, VIII and X in 9 provinces and 13 cities from 1990-92).
A number of difficulties were encountered during implementation: medical technologists rather
than graduates had to be hired as microscopists to meet civil service requirements delaying their initial
recruitment; the microscopes themselves arrived only 6-9 months after the microscopists were in place;



36                                 Annex A
delays in the release of salaries resulted in a large turnover in the medical technologists (30%) which
necessitated retraining; there was a serious shortage of drugs needed to achieve case holding; IEC and
community participation inputs were weak. Finally, after devolution, CFPs largely functioned without
the support of health centers and supervision and monitoring at the field level deteriorated. The
performance of the CFPs in the main metro areas (NCR and Cebu) was better than the provincial teams,
but still fell short of the target. The TB prevalence survey has been completed although the final report is
still under review by DOH.
Maternal and Chiild Healthl
The component was only intended to fund inputs to control acute respiratory infection (ARI) and
malnutrition, rather than broad MCH inputs, as the latter were covered under a Child Survival program
support by USAID. Specific objectives are to reduce mortality and morbidity due to pneumonia, and
protein-energy and micronutrient malnutrition in children 0-5 years of age. The strategy for ARI control
was to train staff in the detection and management of ARI in a phased way up to two provinces per
region. For nutrition the intention was to identify certain high risk areas and provide monthly growth
monitoring, micronutrients and nutrition education to at-risk families.
The ARI program was extended nationwide within 3 years. The project funded training, IEC,
drugs and equipment. There is no way to assess the impact of the inputs provided unlder the project. Of
the equipment supplied, only 30% of the oxygen concentrators ($2,000 a piece) were being used. Many
had been supplied without manuals and no training had been provided in their use.
The nutrition component funded the salaries of 16 nutritionists, some training and IEC, and a
significant proportion from 1993 onwards went towards the purchase of micronutrients for the national
micronutrient program (ASAP). About 116 mothercraft classes were conducted in 35 municipalities,
which is well short of the targets implied in the SAR, although no detailed targets were provided. The
effectiveness of these classes cannot be determined from the records, but the impact on national nutrition
status is negligible.
VI. HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY
Field Health Services
The project proposed to hire about 2,000 midwives to serve in high-risk underserved barangays.
The midwives had to be hired on a contractual basis but were meant to be absorbed into the DOH system.
The evaluation confirmed that the midwives were recruited to serve the most hard-to-reach areas
where the availability of other health care providers was the least. The participation of the PHDP
midwives in the disease control programs was on par with the older departmental midwives. For most
municipalities, the midwives were a net addition to the pool of rural health midwives. Vehicles were
provided to areas that were most difficult to reach, although they mostly served for general purposes
within the municipality rather than exclusively for health use.
The midwives had the highest economic rate of return of all project inputs, and were evaluated to
have more than offset the losses or poor returns from other activities. Unfortunately, it is not clear that
this component will be sustained as a result of the devolution of health personnel to local governments.
Only 25% of the midwives have been absorbed so far by the local governments and about 20% have



Annex A                             37
resigned. When the project ends in December, the midwives will no longer be funded by DOH. It
remains to be seen what proportion will be retained by the local governments.
Community Health Development (PCHD)
PCHD was intended to expand primary health care services in remote and underserved
communities through developing a partnership between the government, NGOs and communities. This
component enjoyed early success and DOH decided to expand it nationwide. The evaluation however
raises questions about the cost-effectiveness of this approach and its impact at the national level, given
the required intensity of inputs. Implementation problems included delays in the release of funds,
onerous accounting requirements for NGOs from GOP auditors and lack of support from local
governments. Sustaining the partnership beyond PHDP also proved to be more difficult than anticipated.
VII. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Infocom and Health Planning
Infocom was designed to improve communication within the DOH through acquisition and
installation of appropriate communications hardware, and to use this enhanced communication system to
improve information gathering, analysis, planning, discussion and decision making. The heart of this
second element was to establish a computerized health and management information system (the Field
Health Services Information System or FHSIS) that would permit rapid communication of data between
various levels of the DOH throughout the country, and encourage realistic and timely planning and
management.
The project has laid the foundation for an electronic infrastructure for DOH, but the purchase of
the equipment is too recent to see the impact of improved access to information for management
purposes. Implementation was delayed as a result of administrative bottlenecks, shifting management
priorities and resistance to information technology. Most important, use of the information system
(FHSIS) that was to underpin this component and form the basis for planning did not materialize. The
FHSIS and area-based planning programs promoted by project were complicated and were assessed by
the rural health worker as not particularly useful for their new planning and information needs.
Devolution had a negative impact on both components, which could have been prevented by early
contingency planning and strategy modification, particularly by being accessible to the front-line
workers.
Training and IEC
The training programs for midwives and other rural health workers were developed, in some cases
field tested, but largely not implemented. The curricula developed by the PHDP remains largely unused
even today within the Philippines even though they appear to be excellent. Much of the in-service
training for field staff was derived from vertical programs, and as such not the holistic training which was
the project's intention.
The IEC materials developed through this component were assessed as both effective and helpful
to field health services, although sometimes delayed and often not finely tuned to the particular needs of
the province or LGU. Motivational and promotional skills seemed however to be successfully taught and
utilized by the field health services staff and the disease control programs were satisfied with the
materials produced. The multi-media center is now effectively functional and appears to be poised to



38                                 Annex A
provide significant future assistance to DOH programs subject to DOH initiatives to sustaining it. A
revised business plan, taking into account comments of previous Bank missions has been prepared.
However, it is uncertain whether the center can retain trained staff and maintain equipment while
remaining a unit of the DOH and subject to the same bureaucratic and funding limitations.
Central Laboratory
This component was part of overall plan to strengthen the DOH science and technology
infrastructure in support of its health service programs. A detailed component plan is not available, but it
appears that a number of DOH facilities were envisioned to have been upgraded including the central
laboratory, the Biological Production Service (BPS), the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, as well
as the four specialized tertiary medical centers (for lung, heart, kidney, and children's diseases). The
main activities were the acquisition of equipment and overseas training in highly sophisticated laboratory
methods. Acquisition of the equipment was supposed to coincide with the return of the trained staff, who
would then implement a technology transfer plan.
The equipment procured vary in their degree of appropriateness and almost all are underutilized. In
some cases they could not be installed owing to lack of appropriate work rooms. There has been
significant attrition of trained staff and there is no evidence of programs or activities to transfer skills
within the DOH system.
Health Policy
A total of 23 policy studies were carried out under the project. Of these almost half were in the
area of health care financing. This area was also studied under a much larger grant from USAID. All
studies were carried out by non-DOH contractors and were of good quality.
However, the project did not succeed in creating a policy formulation structure at DOH capable of
commissioning, receiving, analyzing, and using materials for designing policy options useful to the DOH
management. Recently a new policy development staff was put in place. Their effectiveness will depend
on the importance the DOH administration attaches to policy making.
Bank Performance
The clients were generally satisfied with Bank performance although they mentioned the absence
of a useful mid-term review that may have helped the DOH to review project strategies and address
shortcomings.
Borrower Performance
The DOH was satisfied with its own performance, especially as it compared with the earlier two
Bank population projects that suffered considerable delays and implementation difficulties. Frequent
changes in top DOH management was cited as a problem, especially as it resulted in changing priorities.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was also unable to enforce performance or reporting compliance
from the program units, which were responsible for implementing the different components.



Annex A                              39
Agreements/Recommendations
(1)  The mission discussed the preparation of the ICR, in particular the Borrower's contribution, and
shared documents with the PCU. In view of the preparation of the detailed end-of-project evaluation, and
the involvement of the PCU the borrower sees no difficulty in meeting Bank requirements in this regard.
The mission recommended that DOH management discuss the findings and lessons from the
implementation of PHDP.
(2)  The mission recommends that DOH focus on the sustainability of the multimedia center, and in
particular the options proposed by earlier Bank missions to ensure adequate financing and management
flexibility for the center.
(3)  The mission recommends that DOH re-evaluate its approach to TB control in view of the findings
of the TB survey, particularly with reference to case-holding and participation of the private sector.
(4)  DOH to continue to lobby LGUs through its regional offices to absorb PHDP midwives.






40                 Annex B
BORROWER' S
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
FOR
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 3099 - PH
PHILIPPINE HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Health






Annex B                                 41
PHILIPPINE HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PHDP)
GOVERNMENT'S FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
Part A: The Project
1. Assessment of project objectives
Specification of Project Objectives
Paraphrasing from the information contained in the World Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
PHDP intended to support the Government's priorities in achieving the following:
General Objective 1: expand and improve publicly provided primary health care, especially for high-risk
groups, in particular:
Specific Objective 1: achieve improvements in the control of major communicable and endemic diseases.
Specific Objective 2: reduce infant and child deaths as well as maternal mortality and fertility.
General Objective 2: promote collaboration among Government, local communities and non-government
organizations or NGOs in meeting community health needs, in particular:
Specific Objective 3: promote health equity by targeting services to presently under-served areas and
high-risk groups according to degrees of risk and/or disease prevalence.
Specific Objective 4: strengthen partnership among the Department of Health (DOH), local government
units (LGUs) and NGOs to improve health conditions of local residents while at the same time
developing local capabilities for participatory planning and self reliance in undertaking community health
projects.
General Objective 3: strengthen efficiency and effectiveness of DOH, including establishment of
improved mechanisms for future health sector policy development, in particular:
Specific Objective 5: upgrade institutional capacities of the DOH at all levels to improve program
effectiveness and managerial efficiency.
Specific Objective 6: establish improved planning and consultation mechanisms for longer term
improvements in health policies and programs
Appropriateness of Project Objectives
The project was appropriately positioned as an effort "to support the Government's priorities", since
project objectives dovetailed with Government's established directions. Specifying project objectives as
supporting Government's initiatives, rather than as separate and independent initiatives, is also consistent
with the project's resources, activities and outputs supplementing Government's own similar efforts.
General Objective I as well as Specific Objectives 1 and 2 may be regarded as focused on reducing the
burden of communicable and infectious diseases. General Objective 2 as well as Specific Objectives 4
and 5 may be regarded as directed towards improving access to primary health care, especially among



42                                 Annex B
under-served and high risk groups. General Objective 3 as well Specific Objectives 5 and 6 may be
regarded as contributing to upgrading capacity of the DOH to manage the public health sector.
Reducing the burden of communicable and infectious diseases is an appropriate objective. The nation's
burden from health problems like malaria, TB, schistosomiasis, acute respiratory infection and
malnutrition among children are high. Much of this burden is borne by the poor, particularly by the large
rural population. Important public good is associated with addressing these types of diseases. Cost-
effective interventions to reduce or prevent health problems from these causes are available. Large scale
efforts to deploy these interventions in well targeted ways via the existing national public health delivery
network are feasible The private sector is not in a position to adequately address these problems at the
adequate scale and in the long-term.
Improving access to primary health care among under-served communities is another appropriate
objective, although this eventually required substantial adjustment with the devolution of public health
service delivery after 1992. Primary health care is an efficient and equitable response to basic health
needs of communities. People in remote and hard-to-reach communities are among those in greatest need
for such services. Under the Local Government Code of 1991, however, financing and provision of
primary health care services became primarily a local government obligation. Since PHDP is a project
financed by a loan of national government, its support for provision and delivery of public primary health
care services which have become the responsibility of local government needed adjustments to ensure
more substantial local government participation.
It also makes good sense to upgrade capacity of the DOH as the central government's public health
service agency which performs an important national mandate whiclh, at the project's start, included
operation of an extensive network of health service delivery outlets and administration of a large and
growing annual expenditure budget. When PHDP was prepared, devolution was not yet in the horizon. It
was clear then that DOH's management capacities, systems and facilities were inadequate for running
and supporting an extensive nationwide network of public sector service providers. This objective,
however, needed radical revision as devolution fundamentally altered the function of the DOH in relation
to health service delivery in the public sector.
Yet even for institutional conditions prior to devolution, the project's institutional capacity upgrading
objectives were not sufficiently well-defined to ensure that project activities and their intended impact
would have been more easily monitored and evaluated. To begin with, the project lacked a properly
articulated logical framework for its institutional capacity building components, a pre-existing
shortcoming which devolution emphasized. When devolution fundamentally altered the institutional
context under which DOH managed the public health sector, it further obscured the specific directions
and concrete content of the project's institutional upgrading efforts which were already vague from the
start. Since the project's institutional objectives were not properly specified, devolution worsened this
lack of specification by further changing the fundamental conditions.
2. Assessment of project design
Summary of Project Design Choices
The project supported activities and inputs in four components which may be grouped in relation to the
three general objectives as follows:



Annex B                                    43
To attain the first set of objectives on reducing the burden of diseases, Component 1 supported four
impact programs, namely malaria, TB, schistosomiasis and matemal and child health;
To attain the second set of objectives on improving access to primary health care, the largest part of
Component 2 on field health services and Component 3 on community partnerships both supported
grassroots service delivery to targeted communities; and
To attain the last set of objectives on upgrading DOH capacity, the rest of Component 2 supported
improvements in DOH capacity to perform MIS, planning and budgeting, central lab, communications,
training and evaluation functions while Component 4 supported research and consultations for developing
health policy.
From the SAR, project resources were allocated to various objectives as follows:
Intended Allocation of PHD)P Resources
Objective 1. Reduce disease burden                 4 impact programs (Com 1)    $46.0 million
Objective 2. Improve Access                        Field Health Services (Com 2)   $16.8 million
Com. Health Dev (Com 3)      $ 8.9 million
Sutb Total                   $25.7 million
Objective 3. Upgrade Capacity                      DOH Inst. Capacity (Com 2)   $21.6 million
Policy Development (Com 4)    S 0.6 million
Sub-Total                    $22.6 million
Unallocated
$108.4 million
Total project costs (GO), WB, Japan Grant, Italian Grant                        SI108.4 million
Excluding unallocated resources, the project intended to spend 49% of its resources to reducing the
burden of infectious diseases and another 27% to improving access to primary health care services, or a
total of 76% of project resources for direct health benefits to the population. The remaining 24% was
intended to improve DOH institutional capacity to manage the health sector.
From what the DOH knew at the start of the project, the support for four impact programs and for field
health services (which together accounted for an intended allocation of $62.8 million or 67% of the total
resources net of unallocated funds) were considered as financing the execution of activities which were
already well defined and technically decided.  In contrast, the DOH  expected that financing for
community health partnerships, capacity building and policy development (accounting for intended
spending of $31.1 million or close to 33% of the total net of unallocated funds) would be funding
activities yet to be further refined and specified only during the course of implementation.
The project eventually supported 21 "intervention packages", which are distinctly recognizable
collections of activities to produce a common output related to various project objectives. These
"intervention packages" are listed in the following table:



44                                    Annex B
Specific Intervention Packages Undertaken by PHDP
Objective 1 (6 packages)
1. Malaria Control (including training & IEC)
2. TB Control (including training & IEC)
3. Schistosomiasis Control (with training and IEC)
4. MCH: Control of ARI (with training and IEC)
5. MCH: Nutrition Services (with training and IEC)
6. MCH: EPI
Objective 2 (3 Packages)
7. Field Health Services: incremental staff
8. Field Health Services: vehicles & equipment
9. Partnership for Community Health & Development
Objective 3 (12 Packages)
10. Area/program-based health planning
1. Central Laboratory
12. INFOCOM: Communications facilities
13. INFOCOM: Information Technologies
14. INFOCOM: FHSIS
15. IEC: Production Capacity
16. IEC: Actual Production
17. Training: Training Capacity
18. Training: Actual Training
19. Baseline Studies for Policy Development
20. Project Management
21. Evaluation
Assessment of Project-Financed Intervention Packages
Selection of Intervention Packages in Relation to Project Objectives
Were the intervention packages the right ones? Should other interventions have been included? A
review of activities in relation to project objectives yielded these observations:
1. In addressing causes of infectious and communicable diseases, malaria, TB and Schistosomiasis
Control respond to the most important causes of infectious disease morbidity and mortality. TB should
have been given highest importance considering its far greater impact on health status, and control of
water-borne diseases could have been included considering their potential for explosive disease
outbreaks, but attention to the three disease problems was proper.
2. In terms of reducing maternal and child mortality, the project did not intend to cover the most
important service needs such as safe delivery, family planning, and maternal care and nutrition. The
project's effort on ARI and EPI were really minor involvements. These choices were made because
government was implementing, concurrently with PHDP, a large and extensive portfolio of projects and
programs in maternal health, family planning and child survival. In fact, a large USAID-funded grant
project, the Child Survival Program, was managed in parallel with PHDP by the project's Project



Annex B                                  45
Coordinating Unit (or PCU). PHDP's activities in this area were deliberately intended to be peripheral
and supplementary to the larger MCH program.
3. In improving access to primary health care, PHDP's interventions of contracting additional midwives,
providing vehicles and equipment, and mobilizing communities through partnerships all successfully
extended coverage of the public health network. These interventions may thus be regarded as entirely
appropriate for an era of national govemment management of public health service delivery. The only
missing element in this effort, which would become more important later, is the prominent involvement
of LGUs.
4. In terms of upgrading capacity of DOH, the items included could be considered appropriate for the
information available at that time. There were, however, a number of key items not included in the
project, the importance of which became clearer in due time. The project should have addressed the
following key issues of DOH management capacity: field supervision of health service delivery; epidemic
surveillance and monitoring; logistics management and distribution, management of patient referrals to
hospitals.
5. Some items included in various intervention packages were eventually found unnecessary. These
items should not have been included as these did not significantly contribute to the project's impact.
Motorcabs in the schistosomiasis control program were found unnecessary as provision of traveling
expense allowances sufficiently assured the physical mobility of control teams. Oxygen concentrators
were also found unnecessary. More than 40% of these remained unused by recipient field units and even
the units which used them clearly had other more cost-effective options for their emergency oxygen
needs.
Utilization of Project Resources in Relation to Eventual Impact
From the total of $70,100,000, the project actually spent $69,028,157, leaving unspent only about 1.5%
of total project cost. Actual utilization in relation to intended allocation among various intervention
packages is shown in the following table:
surces  lcted for Specific Intervention Pkges Undertaken tby PHDP:
Intervention Packages               Intended Allocation   Actual Allocation   Gainer/Loser
OBJECTIVE 1 (6 packages)
1. Malaria                          13,820,000         11,143,998       (Loser)
2. TB                               4,750,000          6,204,257         Gainer
3. Schisto                          5,790,000                            Gainer
4. MCH: CARI                        550,000                              Gainer
5. MCH Nutri                        1,550,000                            Even
6. MCH EPI                          0                                    Gainer
Sub-total                           26,460,0000                          Gainer
OBJECTIVE 2 (3 packages)
7. FHS: Staff                       11,730,000         25,879,962        Gainer
8. FHS: Vehicles
9. PCHD                             5,890,000          4,656,044         (Loser)
Sub-total                           17,620,000         30,536,006        Gainer



46                                   Annex B
OBJECTIVE 3 (12 packages)
10. APBHP                             1,100,000           147,744           (Loser)
11. Central Lab                       1,600,000           1,623,887         Even
12. INFOCOM: com                     2,650,000            2,727,984         Gainer
13. INFOCOM:: info
14. INFOCOM: FHSIS
15. IEC: capacity                     1,470,000          2,751,324          Gainer
16. IEC: production
17. Training: capacity               4,750,000            1,789,192         (Loser)
18. Training: activity
19. Baseline Studies                 420,000              1,164,780         Gainer
20. Project management                0                   25,817             Gainer
21. Evaluation                        340,000             284,165           (Loser)
Sub-total                             12.330,000          10,514,893        (Loser)
Intervention packages labeled as "gainers" used up more resources than originally intended, while the
"losers" used less. Various explanations may be made for this: "gainers" were under-budgeted in the first
place while "losers" were over-budgeted so implementation merely adjusted expenditures to actual needs;
"ainers" vwere better implemented because they used resources faster although "losers" could also have
been better managed because they achieved their goals with less resources; and "gainers" became more
important and "losers" less important mainly because new information gathered in the course of
implementation or major changes of conditions affecting the project like devolution. It is difficult to
determine which of these reasons can specifically explain which items.
Comparisons between intended and actual expenditure patterns led to these observations:
1. As much as 98.5% of the project's funds were utilized in project activities. Even considering the one
year extension, the project amply demonstrated the considerable absorptive capacity of the DOH
organization to efficiently and effectively utilize large scale project investments. This efficiency in
spending resources to accomplish objectives is considered even more remarkable because the project did
not include traditionally quick disbursing civil works sub-projects, largely relied on numerous small
procurement and disbursement transactions, and mostly undertook field level activities dependent on
project expenditures made by many small provincial units. This ability to fully utilize project funding is
specially significant since PHDP had been the first IBRD project following the dismal performance of the
DOH with the immediately preceding IDA operation on the Philippine Population Project II or POP II
where a sizable portion of the IDA credit was left unutilized at project end despite several extensions.
2. In the course of implementation, more than the originally intended portion of the project resources
went to direct health services (objective I and 2 on disease control and improving access, respectively)
and less to Objective 3 on capacity building of DOH. This implied that the project which was originally
designed to address health service delivery improvements on the ground became even more so in the
course of its implementation.
3. The top 5 intervention packages in terms of their shares in total project expenditures are, in
descending order: field health services; malaria; schistosomiasis; TB and; partnerships for community
health development. These interventions had the most direct and explicit impact on poor communities
and households. Due to their disproportionate share of the project spending (accounting for almost 80%



Annex B                                   47
of total project expenditures), performance of these activities and their corresponding impact would
overwhelmingly define the overall performance and impact of the whole project.
4. In the course of implementation, the biggest "gainer" among all 21 intervention packages is field
health services, for which actual expenditures ended up at more than twice the original intended
allocation. This intervention package was also the most spectacularly successful element of the project in
terms of reaching the poor, raising utilization of primary health care services, and expanding services
available to the most needy communities. The evaluation, in fact, estimates that at the worst assumptions,
field health expenditures for contracted midwives returned in benefits more than 3 times their costs.
5. Among the three main disease control interventions where cost-benefit calculations were made, the
two "gainers", namely TB and schistosomiasis control, were also the two programs with the better cost-
benefit ratios, while the only "loser", i.e., malaria, had the worst cost-benefit ratio among the group.
Furthermore, in the assessment of public health impact, the project's malaria efforts had significant
shortfalls in its spraying and case management targets as the general malaria prevalence declined, while
the project's TB and schistosomiasis control activities were found consistent with significant overall
declines in the severity of these disease problems. While project design was fundamentally sound in
terms of choosing the right areas in which to invest, the project's implementation made further
improvements because adjustments in actual spending allowed the most beneficial elements to utilize
more resources at the cost of the other comparatively less beneficial, yet nonetheless useful, elements of
the project.
Positioning of the Project Relative to the Government's Program
In almost all areas of project intervention, PHDP supported interventions related to existing service
delivery programs (like malaria, TB, schistosomiasis, maternal and child care, operation of barangay
health stations by midwives) or existing organizational functions (like IEC, information management,
laboratory support, communications, training, planning and evaluation). In all these areas, the project's
activities were not isolated and independent but operated in the context of larger corresponding national
programs or functions.  There were two exceptions, namely the partnership for community health
development and policy development components, which initially did not connect with existing formal
programs or functions but rather with intermittent activities and informal efforts. By the time PHDP
ended, however, these two components had become the foundations of respective formal programs and
functions of the DOH.
PHDP-assisted interventions were designed to be linked with corresponding programs or functions. In
fact, PHDP activities in one program or function had stronger conceptual and operational links with the
program or function to which it relates than with other PHDP activities. For example, PHDP's malaria
control activities were more closely related with the larger national malaria control program, than with
other PHDP activities like TB or schistosomiasis control. Each PHDP component was also managed by
the same official that managed the larger national program or function that the project assists. The
deliberate link between project component on one hand and program or function on the other hand was
adopted by DOH in order to improve coordination of related activities funded by different project as well
as by regular sources. It was also expected that this arrangement would maximize the probability that
project activities and outputs will be integrated into an institutional framework.
Subordinating project activities to decision-making in corresponding programs, however, risked slower
implementation as program management is usually more complex than implementation of specific project



48                                    Annex B
activities. The approach could also constrain the project's ability to innovate or raise the level of quality
of its work as program decisions tend to be conservatively based on averages, rarely opting for cutting
edge choices. The arrangement could also expose the project to risks of losing focus and visibility as its
distinct contribution becomes indistinguishable among other inputs from other sources.
The DOH, however, opted to trade-off speed and focus in project implementation in favor of integration
and institutionalization of project activities within the organic and program structure of the agency. To
reduce the risks of delays and poor quality work, the DOH deliberately deployed its best people to head
programs and functions rather than have them dedicated to individual projects. This allowed more
efficient utilization of scarce DOH managerial resources because staff are deployed in positions making
key long term program decisions governing several related projects, rather than in assignments handling
only one specific short term project or another. This approach also insured that project activities and
inputs are effectively coordinated with all other resources available to the program or function being
supported.
This project-to-program/function design positioned various PHDP intervention packages in various
relations with other PHDP activities as well as with the DOH program or function being assisted, as the
following tables shows:
Positioning of Specific Intervention Packages Undertaken by PHDP 
Intervention Packages                 Share in PHDP Resources        Contribution to
Program Resources
OBJECTIVE 1 (6 packages)
1. Malaria                            Large                          Medium
2. TB                                  Large                         Small
3. Schisto                            Large                          Large
4. MCH: CARI                           Small                         Small
5. MCH Nutri                          Small                          Medium
6. MCH EPI                             Small                         Small
OBJECTIVE 2 (3 packages)
7. FHS: Staff                          Large                         Small
8. FHS: Vehicles                      Large                          Large
9. PCHD                               Large                          Large
OBJECTIVE 3 (12 packages)
10. APBHP                             Small                          Small
11. Central Lab                       Medium                         Large
12. INFOCOM: com                      Medium                         Large
13. INFOCOM:: info                    Medium                         Large
14. INFOCOM: FHSIS                    Small                          Small
15. IEC: capacity                     Small                          Large
16. IEC: production                   Small                          Small
17. Training: capacity                Small                          Large
18. Training: activity                Small                          Small
19. Baseline Studies                  Small                          Large
20. Project management                 Large                         Small
21. Evaluation                         Small                         Large



Annex B                                    49
Interventions like TB control or additional midwives account for large shares of project resources but
represent relatively small contributions to the national programs (Large Share of Project-Small
Contribution to DOH program). In these cases, PHDP interventions provided an important incremental
or enhancing influence. In contrast, interventions like schistosomiasis, partnerships for community health
development and vehicles account for big portions of project expenditures and also dominate the
government's effort in these areas (Large Share in Project-Large Contribution to DOH Program). In
these cases, PHDP activities effectively defined the general practice and official policy.
Other cases, like in building production capacity for IEC and training, baseline studies and evaluation,
these efforts account for relatively small shares of PHDP spending but represent practically the main
source of government spending for that category of intervention (Small Share of Project-Large
Contribution to DOH Program). In these cases, PHDP activities were in the position to greatly influence
the institutional effort with fairly modest investments.
In still other cases, PHDP activities are modest and they also represented minor additions to the
government's larger effort, as in CARI, APBHP, FHSIS, IEC production, and training activities (Small
Share of Project-Small Contribution to DOH Program). In th{ese cases, PHDP may not have had the
motivation, opportunity or leverage to significantly influence the general effort.
3. Assessment of the implementation and operation experience
Overview of Implementation
During its 8-year duration (original 7 years plus 1-year extension), PHDP has had 5 project directors and
4 project coordinators. Regular DOH personnel drawn from selected program managers or service chiefs
served as project-designated component managers or sub-component managers. Personnel changes at
this level occurred but less frequently than changes in project directors. The project, however, had only
one PCU which operated as the project staff throughout the project life.
Actual project expenditures in 8 years according to objectives are summarized as follows:
Au    pect Loan Proceeds
Objective 1. Reduce disease burden                 4 impact programs            $28.07 million
Objective 2. Improve Access                        Field Health Services        $25.79 million
Com. Health Dev              $ 4.66 million
Sub Total                    $30.45 million
Objective 3. Upgrade Capacity                      DOH Inst. Capacity (Com 2)   $ 9.35 million
Policy Development (Com 4)    $ 1.16 million
Sub-Total                    $10.51 million
Total project expenditures                                                      $69.03million



50                                 Annex B
While the project almost fully utilized its resources in 8 years, total expenditures was incurred according
to the following pattern of annual spending during each project year.
attern of Aual ProjecSpe
Year                           Annual % Spent                 Cumulative % Spent
1990                           4                               4
1991                           12                              27
1992                           19                              46
1993                          23                               69
1994                           16                              85
1995                            5                              90
1996                           3                               93
1997                           7                              100
ALL                            100
Notes on Implementation Experience
Quality of Project Management
The project's management implemented the project design and pursued its objectives with considerable
general consistency through several changes in project leadership and management. There were some
major revisions.
The project spent much more than it originally intended for field health services mainly because financing
the salaries of contracted midwives had to be extended for a longer period than originally planned due to
uncertainties attendant to devolution. Another revision entailed the smaller than intended spending for
upgrading DOH capacity because repeated changes in institutional assumptions due to devolution
prevented some plans from  eventually being implemented.  These revisions, however, could be
considered indicators of responsive project management making decisions in response to changing
conditions.
Prior to project start, both the Bank, in its SAR, and NEDA, in its pre-investment evaluation of the
project, raised certain issues concerning the project which could be regarded as challenges to project
management. It would be instructive to review how these issues played out during implementation. The
SAR identified 3 risks, namely: political instability in some target communities; delays in counterpart
funding; and weak administrative capacity in the DOH.
Similarly, NEDA was concerned about absorptive capacity of the DOH given the poor experience in POP
II project, weaknesses in funds flow management, and the uncertain prospects of reaching under-served
communities. In addition, NEDA was also concerned about inappropriately using loan funds for
consultants, contractual personnel, vehicles, and research, and about the sustainability of the project
activities.
As it turned out, the project succeeded in effectively reaching under-served communities. The PHDP
midwives were assigned to and served at posts in remote communities not previously reached regularly
by the existing public health network. Political instability did not become a barrier to this effort.



Annex B                                51
Except for a small portion of the loan proceeds left unspent and the extension of I year in project
duration, the project effectively implemented activities which disbursed resources made available
contrary, to the experience in POP II. The project had initial difficulties and serious delays attended a
number of key activities. The delayed implementation of the multi-media center sub-project was the
primary cause for the one year extension. There were also mismatches in the execution of some activities
which caused waste and poor performance. Several instances of seasonal spraying to control malaria
were missed when PHDP-provided chemicals would be available but GOP-contracted spraymen could
not be hired due to funding delays; TB cases found and diagnosed by PHDP-funded casefinding teams
would be lost when GOP-provided drugs to initiate their treatment were not immediately available.
Yet these problems did not overwhelm the overall achievement of project objectives. The project was
complex since it included a wide variety of different combinations of goods and services for different
applications from casefinding packages for TB, to a multi-media center, to baseline research studies, to
community mobilization for health projects. Yet project management managed this complexity. The
project management achievements is even more remarkable considering that DOH largely executed
project activities without relying on an outside entity or contractor, nor excessively using external
consultants.
In the use of consultants, PHDP was appropriately restrained as most technical preparations were
undertaken by regular DOH staff or project - contracted staff in the PCU. Whatever consultant services
used were sourced from local organizations or involved use of individual local experts. Use of foreign
contractors was limited to technology transfer activities like those for multi-media development and
specialized laboratory training.
With regard to sustainability, the disease control and maternal care programs which were supported by
the project are currently being carried on with GOP funding. Some of the contracted midwives were
absorbed by LGUs, but many were not absorbed because the bulk of the midwives were allocated to some
of the poorest LGUs. This was a problem which was not anticipated as the PHDP design did not expect
devolution to occur. Had devolution not occurred, the PHDP midwives would have been progressively
absorbed by expanding the DOH plantilla to regularize the employment of these contractual personnel.
With devolution, however, absorption of the midwives depended on LGUs expanding their RHiU plantilla
which to the poorest LGUs already claimed a disproportionate share of local government spending.
The institutionalization of most organizational improvements such as training, information processing,
communications and planning are currently being addressed by designated DOH units, many of which are
familiar with the issues having actively managed the implementation of these same activities throughout
the project life.
Despite these generally positive indicators of effective project management, the long project
implementation duration deserves some critical remarks. After a typically slow start in 1990 when only
4% of eventual total project expenditures was spent, the DOH project management immediately reached
what would be the annual peak of project expenditures (23%) in 1991. It then managed to maintain a
reasonably high level of implementation for 4 years until 1994 at which point the project had already
disbursed a cumulative total of 85% of its eventual project expenditures. The project, however, went into
a long phase down when it took 3 years, or more than a third of the project duration, to spend just 15% of
project expenditures. Had DOH maintained its high pace of implementation, it could easily have
completed the project by 1995 or at latest early 1996.



52                                  Annex B
Except for this loss of focus in the project's final 2 or 3 years, project management would have had a far
more excellent performance than it eventually showed.
Effectiveness of Targeting in Project Activities
The evaluation provided ample evidence of the largely effective targeting of project inputs and outputs
towards the strengthening of particular priority services, reaching specific under-served communities and
serving the most needy beneficiaries. Among the key findings that should be cited are the following:
1. The PHDP midwives contributed to the significantly increased utilization of priority primary health
care services in the communities that they served. These communities served by the PHDP midwives
were also shown to be the ones which are more remote, harder to reach, and with fewer alternative
providers most of whom are informally trained or untrained such as traditional birth attendants and
"albularyo". Much of the increased utilization generated by the PHDP midwives represented unmet
demand for basic health services not previously satisfied adequately by other sources.
2. Municipalities with PCHD projects most of which involved improvements of water supply and
provision of sanitary toilets, were shown to have significantly lower incidence of diarrhea cases than
whose without PCHD projects. This indicates that in the category of health action taken by most
community partnership there is some evidence of improved health conditions.
3. RHUs with a PHDP nutrition program  had higher levels of nutrition supplementation activities
indicating that the PHDP inputs were translated into improved nutrition services reaching their intended
beneficiaries.
4. There is evidence that devolution has had diverse effects on various health services. Devolution
adversely affected programs that are dependent on central support such as the control of TB control and
acute respiratory infection. Devolution, however, is associated with improved programs which have
relied heavily on local support such as nutrition, and has no significant effect on other nationally-
supported programs with strong local demand such as MCH, EPI and family planning. This indicates that
while PHDP inputs improved delivery of some programs prior to devolution, the project's support have
not successfully adjusted to the conditions of devolution.
Coordination of Project Activities
Project activities were undertaken through 3 main types of spending mechanisms, namely: procurement
contracts with commercial suppliers; grants to NGOs and POs; and sub-allotments to implementing units
which spend these funds for numerous small transactions like travel, salaries, training, meetings, and
supplies.
Based on the pattem of expenditures by types of inputs, it is estimated that the total project expenditure
was made according to the following forms of spending:
S1ia~ _~i~r~jed Ef enditure by TypXo Spendin                ____M__ 0_ _,_ W. _ _ L
Sub-allotments to implementing units                      53%
Procurement contracts with suppliers                      42%
Grants to NGOs and Pos                                     5%
All forms                                                 100%



Annex B                                  53
The ability of project management to coordinate project activities, largely manifested through the work of
PCU, is demonstrated by the fact that the whole pre-devolution organization of the DOH, including
central, regional, provincial and municipal units, participated in PHDP activities. All these DOH units
successfully planned activities, budgeted for their expenses, obtained releases of funds, spent funds for
project activities, accounted for their spending and submitted statements of expenditures to support
disbursement claims within the time frames necessary to be eligible as project expenditures, all according
to the rules of both GOP and WB.
Unfortunately, this nationally organized administrative system of service delivery and project
implementation no longer exists after devolution.
Technical Quality of Project Outputs
The largely successful implementation of PHDP demonstrated DOH capacity to carry out many complex
combinations of activities which are national in scope, multi-year in duration, explicit in their targeting,
and financed by multiple sources.  The technical quality of the project outputs, however, varied
considerably. Fortunately the largest components had some of the highest quality.  Consider the
following:
I. Examples of high quality project outputs:
(a)   The field health services component assigned more than 2,000 midwives in the most remote
CommLinities and distributed 416 vehicles to the municipalities and provinces in most need of transport
and 709 microscopes to various recipients nationwide determined to be appropriately in need. These
project-supported inputs significantly contributed to health service improvements which were well-
utilized to benefit those with greatest needs.
(b)  The schistosomiasis control component deployed teams of stool collectors following strict
casefinding protocols and providing drug treatment to infected patients. The project examined 5.3
million stool samples exceeding the 4.8 million target and treated 263,000 patients or more than twice the
112,500 target. PHDP contributed to a 6-fold increase in access to services, a doubling of service
coverage, more than a third in the increase in total treatment and almost a third in the decline in
prevalence.
(c)  The project mounted a technology assessment mission which reviewed technology options for
multi-media tools in health worker training and IEC, rendered a report and made recommendations.
From these findings, terms of reference for a turnkey contract to establish and run a multi-media
materials development center was formulated; an international competitive bidding was conducted; a
contractor was selected; and a contract awarded. The contractor successfully performed the contract and
a multi-media production capability was established which is being sustained. The effort was pursued
with consistency of purpose over a period of more than 4 years.
(d)  The project carried out an ambitious baseline policy research effort that produced 23 important
studies, established an integrated database that remains useful to health policy formulation and created a
large pool of health policy researchers, analysts and consultants that continue to provide services to DOH.



54                                 Annex B
2. Examples of project outputs with mixed results:
(a)   The project's training component successfully developed good quality prototype manuals for
midwives, rural health physician, public health nurses and rural sanitary inspectors. Implementation of
training programs based on these manuals were, however, limited.
(b)  The project's support for malaria and TB provided key inputs essential to disease control activities
(mosquito control chemicals for malaria and casefinding packages for TB). But the effectiveness of these
inputs were limited by the lack of complementary requirements such as hiring of malaria control
spraymen and provision of TB treatment drugs.
(c)   The project's support for Area/Program-Based Health Planning led to the development of sound
methodology for decentralized operational planning which was practiced widely and effectively before
devolution. The method, however, did not transition effectively under the devolved set-up and has ceased
to become an important tool in the field.
(d)  The project's support to central lab enabled the purchase of key equipment and the training of
laboratory professionals. But the central lab has not been realized as conceived, is not operating as
desired, and does not yet function to fully justify the investmenits made.
(e)  The project's support for the Field Health Services Information System  has enabled the
development of a comprehensive reporting system with an accompanying computerized data entry and
processing system. The system, however, has never been fully operational, has ceased to justify the
continued data recording efforts of now devolved field personnel, and has not yielded the full
informational usefulness expected from it.
3. Examples of project outputs whose quality is difficult to ascertain:
(a)   The quality of the project's efforts towards partnership for community health development is
difficult to determine primarily because the available evolution tools do not adequately measure the
health benefits from community participation, organization and cooperation. Poor documentation of
some of the projects and some of the participating NGOs raise some concern about the soundness of
some activities supported. There are some doubts about the continued ability of DOH to sustain this type
of effort.
(b)  The quality of the project's information and communications (INFOCOM) output is also difficult to
determine because much of the outputs became available in the last two years of the project and their
effects on DOH operations have not been fully manifested.
(c)   The quality of the project's output related to MCH and nutrition programs are difficult to ascertain
because the project's effort were minor contributions to the larger programs.



Annex B                                   55
Part B: The Government's Performance
The Government's performance in relation to the project may be considered in two phases, namely, first
for the period from 1990 to 1993 prior to devolution and second for the period 1994 to 1997 after
devolution.
1. Prior to Devolution, 1990-1993
Before devolution, the DOH implemented the project through a nationwide organization which carried
out project activities through a system of decentralized implementation based on central instructions.
This effort was largely successful in undertaking activities according to project design. The necessary
project staff was promptly employed, designated or assigned and the project was rapidly organized and
launched nationwide.  Once the system  for sub-allotment, grant release and procurement were
established, the project was efficiently implemented and project funds were disbursed to attain project
objectives.
During this period, project organization was clear; roles were well-defined; and the mix of focus and
coordination was appropriate. The project component were well-integrated as a whole, and the project
also related well with other parallel activities in the DOH larger portfolio of projects and programs.
During this period, the PCU provided the necessary staff services for the coordinated planning,
budgeting, funds releasing, monitoring, reporting and procurement of all activities under the project,
leaving the technical decisions to be made by the relevant DOH unit serving as a component manager.
The PCU performed these tasks not only for PHDP but also for the USAID-assisted Child Survival
Program, apart from  supporting the preparation of the Urban Health and Nutrition project.  The
Department of Budget and Management facilitated the advanced funding of the project's spending
pipeline to enable DOH to finance decentralized project activities and generate disbursement claims to be
eventually charged against project funds.
The main difficulties during this period were: delays in processing procurement actions due to varying
interpretations of the rules; mismatches in availability of funding for the PHDP-assisted activities and the
complementary GOP-financed items; and lack of explicit and clear strategies driving the implementation
of the institutional capacity building components.
2. After Devolution, 1994-1997
As far as the project implementation was concerned, there was no fundamental changes in the structure or
processes of carrying out project activities after devolution. While the provincial health offices and
provincial health offices have been devolved to their respective local governments, they continued to
carry out the project activities. The sudden loss of DOH administrative authority over the field units was
mitigated by the momentum of habit, the distraction and inexperience of local government officials, and
the continued technical influence of DOH policies and guidelines.
The major impact of devolution on the project was indirect in that the DOH management, including the
managers of programs supported by PHDP, became diverted by the transitional problems of devolution,
confused by the unclear implications of devolution on program implementation, and distracted by the
debates and dislocations created by the massive transfer of personnel and assets to local govemments. As
a result, focus and attention to project implementation weakened.



56                                 Annex B
Another development which had nothing to do with devolution but occurred around this time was the
weakening of DOH management's commitment to unified project management structures. Each new
project spawned its own PCU-type arrangements and scarce DOH managers became distracted by
increasingly fragmented project management assignments. Program management thus weakened thereby
increasing the demand for more self-sufficient project management. As management attention became
drawn more towards specific projects instead of the DOH's organic programs and functions supposedly
being assisted by these projects, the process accelerated the loss of integration and coordination along
programmatic or functional lines.
Meanwhile, local governments largely failed to adequately assume and sustain the activities supported by
PHDP. Many contracted midwives were not absorbed. A few vehicles were diverted to non-health uses.
Provincial coordination of public health services weakened. Some disease control programs like TB and
ART suffered. Planning, reporting and monitoring procedures became less standardized. Much of this
was due to the absence of institutional mechanisms to better coordinate public health work under a
devolved set-up but some of this is due to the internal weaknesses of many local governments to manage
devolved health services.
Part C: World Bank's Performance
1. From the standpoint of the government, the following key items were considered as significant
contributions of the World Bank to efficient and effective project implementation:
(a)   The WB facilitated the early involvement of procurement specialists in project preparation. This
enabled the project to prepare procuremenit packages well which in turn allowed the project to carry out
several large procurement staring the second year of the project.
(b)  In the early supervision missions, the WB staff focused repeatedly on the issue of making adequate
government funds available to front-end project expenses incurred by numerous implementing units all
over the country. This focus helped raise the matter to the attention of government, particularly DBM,
which was essential to solving the problem.
(c)  In general, project matters requiring WB concurrence were acted promptly and consistently. This
allowed project management to operate with reasonable predictability and regularity.
(d)  The WB provided considerable technical advise related to many aspects of the project. The WB
was particularly helpful in technical decisions involving the disease control programs, the operations of
the PCHD component, and the selection of inputs for INFOCOM and the multi-media center components.
2. Also from the standpoint of the government, however, the WB failed to adequately respond to the
following situations during project implementation:
(a)  In only 4 out of the 8 years of project duration did the WB mount at least 2, supervision missions
per year. In the other 3 years, only I mission per year was made, and there was one year (1994) when
there was no supervision mission at all. It might be noted that in 1995, the year after this no-mission
year, project expenditures fell to only 5% of total beginning the long phase down of the project. Most
supervision missions were piggy-backed with longer and more intensive project preparation missions. In
most of theses cases, project supervision was clearly secondary to preparing another project. The level of
engagement of the WB in project supervision could have been much improved.



Annex B                                  57
(b)  One casualty of inadequate supervision was the cursory conduct of the mid-term review. The mid-
term review was not thorough, detailed and comprehensive. It did not undertake a real review of the
status of implementation and did not develop well articulated responses to the changing conditions faced
by the project.
(c)   The WB expended considerable effort to assist DOH in confronting the challenges of devolution.
In several supervision missions during 1991 and 1992, the WB raised the issue of devolution and called
for detailed planning to sustain project implementation under devolution. The WB also produced a sector
report on managing the risks of devolution which identified possible initiatives for DOH to pursue on its
own as well as through PHDP, among other projects. Despite all these, there seemed to have been no
major impact on the visible DOH policies, practices and operations under devolution. This might be a
case of abundant technical assistance failing to make a substantial difference.
(d)  The WB largely failed to help the DOH develop and articulate a clear and explicit strategy for
institutional development. While the project provided significant amounts of inputs, a clear and explicit
framework for utilizing these inputs to create specific institutional capabilities was largely absent. This
made the institutional development components vulnerable to uncertainty, confusion and change.
Part D: Lessons Learned
Based on the experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of PHDP, the government has
derived a number of key lessons as follows:
1. Investment funds for health projects which have a special purpose, operate for several years and
finance attainment of public health goals remain relevant and necessary. The general strategic purpose of
these funds should, however, be clarified so that the financing and management design of projects are
made consistent with the purpose.
If the investment project intends to address an area where government does not have an existing program,
it is reasonable to design the project financing and management as separate, relatively independent, and
self contained. If the project, however, intends to augment, assist, or enhance existing government efforts,
then the project financing and management need to be integrated within the current financing and
management framework of the government.
For the latter case, it would be useful to consider the experience of PHDP.
a) Projects that provide an important contribution to the program they assist would have greater
opportunity and leverage to influence program directions and decisions.
b) Project-specific staff should be limited to administrative support and, if necessary should provide
assistance to the organic program unit to adequately address the technical issues. Projects should avoid
creating their own alternative and separate technical capabilities that might compete and eventually
conflict with the program's management.
c) Project staff should focus on planning budgeting, monitoring, procurement, and funds flow
management in support of program management.
d) Program managers should be authorized and enabled to make decisions governing those projects
involved in the program



58                                   Annex B
e) Management structures, provisions and processes should be consistent with the basic character of
projects as mainly short-term partial donor financing of specific elements of a larger, longer-term and
more comprehensive government program or function.
Consideration might be given to exploring alternative ways to structure project financing of programs.
Current practices center on project financing by category of inputs (e.g., goods, drugs, chemicals,
equipment, salaries, training, IEC and others). Alternatives could include project financing by category
of output (e.g., number of TB patients found, treated and cured; number of BHS fully staffed and
operating; number of health workers trained); or by geographic slice of the program (e.g., the full TB or
malaria control program in the whole Negros Island or the whole of Mindanao); or by program share over
time (e.g., the full national program for nutrition for two years at 80% then declining to 60% in next two
years then phasing down to 20%  the next two years).  These alternatives could increase project
integration with the program, reduce complexity, and improve coordination of activities.
2. In making investments to improve field level capacity, the successful experience with the PHDP
midwives need to be adapted for the conditions of devolution.  In making investments to improve
institutional capacities in the operations of public healtlh network, the PHDP offers many cautionary
lessons.
The PHDP investments in field health services show how large are the benefit pay-offs of expenditures to
expand and upgrade health worker capacity to serve targeted communities. It is possible to undertake a
well-targeted effort on a nation-wide scale, to attain high levels of technical quality despite decentralized
implementation, to achieve specific  improvements in specific services for specific  groups of
beneficiaries. All these, however, were achieved under a pre-devolution set-up wlichl no longer exists.
Future operations that focus on improving field level capacity whether in BHS, RHU, district hospitals or
provincial hospitals will need to develop new  technical, administrative, financial and operational
mechanisms to achieving the same levels of quality, targeting and scale as those attained by the PHDP
field health services component.
The PHDP experience with its institutional capacity building components demonstrate the difficulty of
introducing new large scale organizational systems like APBHP or FHSIS, The duration tends to be long,
the activities complex, development highly sensitive to organizational changes, the demands on
management high yet the benefits are difficult to assess. Furthermore, the effort would not take hold if
the organization does not own the process yet it would be difficult to carry out efficiently if done
completely from within the organization.
3. Project management needs to focus on a few key items. These include: procurement; funds flow;
coordination of planning, budgeting, and monitoring; linking project activities with program directions;
and generating current updated information for project decision-making.
PHDP's experience underline these areas of concern. It is important that the Project Director and the
project staff develop a shared evaluation framework concerning how the project is supposed to work to
attain its objectives. Around this framework, activities can then be prioritized, tasks assigned and work
monitored. A project coordinating unit performing staff functions for implementing entities is clearly
needed, but the DOH needs to professionalize these functions. Establishing a common support staff for
various projects helps to build a stable corps of experienced project support personnel who are able to
work well with organic DOH staff.



Annex B                                    59
4. Bank supervision needs to be regular, focused and consistent. It needs to support project management
when necessary and to challenge it when appropriate. The Bank, however, needs to provide adequate
resources to perform this important task.
Based on PHDP's experience, the mid-term review is an important exercise deserving of dedicated effort.
Missions dedicated to supervision should be the rule rather than combining such missions with project
preparation activities. The Bank's constant attention on procurement and funds flow issues is appropriate
as these matters tend to be the causes of recurrent bottleneck in project implementation. The Bank's
support is often needed to help government clarify its strategic directions and make institutional
assumptions. The lack of impact of the Bank's technical assistance on managing devolution deserves
attention. The Bank might need a facility within projects or through grant resources that could be put in
place to intensively assist government in grappling with large impact issues like devolution. Had such a
facility existed, it could have complemented the Bank's large techlnical effort on devolution by supportilg
the provision of more focused and consistent follow-up on the ground to efficiently translate its policy
advice into operational actions.



60                             Annex C
,       ~~~~~'.epubi.c M she PhNhopi;nes
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
17 June 1997
MR. VINAY BHARGAVA
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
World Bank
23/F Taipan Place, Emerald Ave.
Ortigas Center, Pasig City
Dear Mr. Bhargava:
This has reference to your letter of 15 June 1998 on the draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Philippine Health Development Project (PHDP).
We are pleased to inform that the Department of Health has no further comments
and find the report acceptable.
Very truly yours,



IBRD 27553
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVWNCF
BY ADMINSTRATVEAEG~ONS
I  Lcos:             VI "WESTEm VIS4YAS                                      ,,  LeoPH1LUPPINES'
floc00So,  ~     39.Caplz-
aL Ounion,"              40 AMn                                      DTAE
:4 Parogsinon            41 Iloilo                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
CORDLLeMA0WN$TRAj~E4~ Negroo 0o;idenfe(
Abo    VIl` CENTRALY"       .:S                                 ~VNC   ONDRE
65 Keing-Apayoo:         4A CabuREONOUDRS
7 Mbueftoitproinoce      45 NjgrooOrqdoiw&R IO'U1DJE
`9 Ifgugo t              47 bO                                                                     ___       NENTOAL. BOUNDARIES
fI CAGAYAN VALtEY   :VIII  EASTERN VISAYAS
Li Coagoyr               4  W9 t0saorn                                                                we~    0h ffi O ~o    ~o~A8ts
13   eVocyoe 
III  OF'NTRALWEZON             5   Biliron                      -
5 NoevoEd~o   X   WIESTERN MINDANAO,
TloAc                      Zormboongo delt,oftt8
18 7Zarriwie's         -         ZoCmboongo del Sur
XI NORTIiRN INDAN.O                                                           t    0Jort E        10         20         300
20 Eto00                   7 mno                                                                   
NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION {NCR)      -Ziro                                       4MIL J1~$                                               o       10       1        20
SOUTHERN0   OUThRNGAIOANA
26 Beloogas  DoOriestosl                      C~~~~~~~~~t:U  t6    r
27 Morlr&qoe6  odeNrt7
V  6 BoCtorlgov
3257MaodoriesNr             07100 r5 
36 Snoro egnio
PANAY ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     UAE
X1  PTAM4ANAWA
TheOoedereCalo, einilsS7!Siton,Ka"
ThsWsM OnoOGroArTrO1 6U9  EGIONeOf
onEs 1~~10ol.MUfMM MDANAOKRMM
oOnrto   setoroortoogotn jrLo6deS
SOUH H1N4AA            
\~~  SEAEA
~~~RMM ~    ~        ~       ~       M
1                                    suw-                 Ceiebes Set                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5" Q   
Ox
MOLAYI                                                                                               42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
IN   0  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~6
:A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2                                                     A28
':A 9StI3Ev2  40x                       5 



