Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lteport No. 7665-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 25, 1989
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
2  A -, I   P   It. .                       .      a      .         .   .          I 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00 - P21
(November 1988)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
API    -  Annual Parasite Incidence
ARI    -  Acute Respiratory Infection
CBR    =  Crude Birth Rate
CDR    -  Crude Death Rate
BHS    -  Barangay Health Station
CHS    =  Community Health Service
COA    =  Commission on Audit
DBM    =  Department of Budget and Management
DOH    =  Department of Health
GIS    =  Geographic Information System
GOP    =  Government of the Philippines
HIS    -  Health Information System
IEC    =  Information, Education and Communication
IMR    =  Infant Mortality Rate
MCH    =  Maternal and Child Health
MCP    =  Malaria Control Program
MIS    -  Management Information System
MMR    -  Maternal Mortality Rate
NEDA   =  National Economic Development Authority
NGO    m Non-governmental Organization
NNC    -  National Nutrition Council
PHC    -  Primary Health Care
POPCOM =  Population Commission
RHU    =  Rural Health Unit
SCP    =  Schistosomiasis Control Program
TCP    =  Tuberculosis Control Program
TFR    =  Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA  =  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF -  United Nations Children's Fund
USATD  =  United States Agency for International Development
WHO    =  World Health Organization



VO OUVIIAL UK ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SUZLTE DEVELOEPINT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                        ....               .            iv
DEFINITIONS ................................................                    vii
I.     INTRODUCTION .........................................                      1
11.  HEALTH, NUTRITION AND POPULATION SECTOR                   .      .           2
A. Pro£ile ...........................................                     2
B. Health Sector Organization, Services,
Expenditures and Financing ......................                    5
C. Sectoral Issues ...................................                     9
D. Government Policies and Strategies  ....             ...........       12
E. Bank Group Role and Strategy ......................                    12
III.  THE PROJECT ..........................................                     14
A. Project Objectives ................................                    14
B. Project Description .....................                              14
C. Detailed Project Description ......................                    16
Strengthening Health Impact Programs ..............                   16
Institutional Strengthening of DOH ................                   21
Community Health Development ......................                   25
Policy Development ................................                   27
IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ...........................                    27
A. Costs .............................................                    27
B. Financing ..........                                                   27
C. Procurement .......................................                    29
D. Disbursement ......................................                    31
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting .....................                    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited the Philippines ir, November 1988. Mission members were:
S. Scheyer (Mission Leader), B. Liese, C. Fogle, L. Salmen and D. Conrad.
The report was prepared by S. Scheyer and C. Fogle.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancee
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckoso without World Bankc authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMTATION ...............................                32
A. Status of Project Preparation                ...                  32
b. Organization and MHanag_nt                  .        .            32
C. louitoring and lvaluation                   .        .            33
VI.  PROJECT UUEITS AND RISKS                .......           ...    34
. Benefits...                                                      35
S. Risks .............................................             35
C. Impact on Women ...................................             35
D. Environmental Aspects .............................             35
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................              36
TABLES IN THE TEXT
1.  Project Costs ..........................................              28
2.  Procurement Arrangements ...............................3 0
ANNEXS
1.  Comparative Socio-Economic Indicators .................              38
2.  Total Population Size, Crude Birth and Death Rates
and Total Fertility Rates for Selected Years ........             39
3.  Trends in Infant, Child arnd Maternal Mortality
and Life Expectancy, 1930-1985 ......................             40
4.  Trends in Causes of Mortality, 1946-1984 ..............              41
5.  Trends in Leading Causes of Morbidity, 1978-1984 ......              42
6.  Trends in Malnutrition, by Region and Targeted
Areas, 1976 and 1979 ................................             43
7.  Projections for Budgetary Allocations for the
Sector, 1988-1992 ...................................             44
8.  Targets as Outlined in Midterm Development Plan,
1988-1992 ...........................................             45
9.  Project Costs by Year ........................                       46
10.  Project Cost Sunumary ..................................             47
11.  Summary Account by Project Component ..................              48
12.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ...................              49
13.  Implementation Schedule ...............................              50
14.  Implementation Responsibilities .......................              57
15.  Evaluation Tasks ......................................              65
16.  Proposed Project Monitoring Schedule ..................              67
17.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ........................................             68



_ iii -
Pazn No.
CHARTS
1.  MWlaria Morbidity and Mortality Trends ................               69
2.  Organization Structure of the Department of Health                    70
3.  DOd Regional and Provincial Structure.                                71
4. DON lnfornatio Comunication Sytm..                                    72
5.   DOE Packet Radio Diagram ...... .....................                7'
6. DOB Desktop Publishing Diagram    .                 .74
7. DOE Data File Managemnt Diagram             .        .                 75
S.  DOB Information, Sducation and Communication Diagram                  76
9. DOH Audio-Visual Diagram    ..77
10. DOH Training Diagram    ..78
11.  Organization Structure of the Community Health
Development Component    ..79
MAPS
IBRD  21389   Philippines - Distribution of Malaria
IBRD  21388   Philippines - Known Endemic Areas for Schistosomiasis



- iv -
PHILIPINES
HEALTH DKZVLOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Sainary
Borrowers              Republic of the Philippines
Amounts                US$70.1 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Cofinancing:           Government of Italy, US$8.1 million equivalent
Government of Japan, US$4.3 million equivalent
Proiect Description:  The project would help the Goverrment to meet
its objectives to expand and improve public and
primary health care, especially for high-risk
groups; strengthen the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Department of Health (DOH);
promote collabcration among the Government,
local communities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in meeting community health
needs; and establish improved mechanisms for
future policy development. Specifically, the
project would support: (a) four priority
prog,-ams for improvements in the control of
major communicable diseases (malaria,
tuberculosis and schistosomiasis) and in
maternal and child health; (b) institutional
strengthening of DOH through improvements in
managcment information systems, planning and
budgeting procedures, central laboratory
support, service delivery capability,
communications, training and evaluation
mechanisms; (c) establishment of a program for
provision of grants for organizing and
implementing provincial-level partnerships among
DOH, local governments and NGOs for community
health projects; and (d) establishment of &
national health policy committee and a
secretariat within DOH and provision for
studies. To carry out these activities, drugs,
pesticides, equipment, vehicles, materials,
community health grants, training, and technical
assistance would be financed under the project.



Benefits and Rikes:  The project would: (a) reduce the prevalence of
*alaria, tuberculosis and schistosomiasis in
high-risk areas; (b) reduce the mortality risk
to womn and children in high-risk communities
and encourage the lowering of fertilityl (c)
improve DOS'. capacity to identify and monitor
high-risk households vithin comunities which
would increase equity and efficiency of
services; (d) mobilize counity resources
through partnerships of local governments and
NGOO with DOH to meet critical comunity health
needs; (e) improve the in3titutional capacity of
DOH in planning, management, communication,
support and evaluation, leading to more
effective and efficient delivery of services;
and (f) enhance future sector policy analysis.
One major risk is that communities with a high
prevalence of malaria, tuberculosis and
schistosomiasis as well as high maternal and
infant mortality levels may be in areas of
potential instability, and efforts to reach
these communities could be affected by future
political developments. Sufficient flexibility
exists in DOH's selection of communities to be
supported by the project to overcome the risk
that such developments might affect project
scope, although some deserving communities might
not receive support under these circumstances.
There is also a risk of slow Implementation due
to delays in counterpart funding and weak
administrative capacity. These risks would be
minimized through an annual review with the Bank
of project performance and financial
requirements and through the establishment of a
Project Coordinating Unit (see pp. 24 and 32)
and the designation of individuals responsible
for monitoring and problem-solving in each of
the implementing units of DOH.



- vi -
Estimated Costs La                         Local    Foreign    Total
(USS million)
Strematheni&E DON Isect Program
Malaria Control Program                      9.2       10.6      19.8
Tuberculosis Control Program                7.6         7.3      14.9
Schistosomiasis Control Program              4.8        3.5       8.3
Maternal and Child Health                    0.7        2.3       3.0
Subtotal                   22.3       23.7      46.0
Strengthening DOH Institutional CaRacity
DOH Information Systems                    1.7         2.1       3.8
Regional/Provincial Health Planning        1.6          -        1.6
Field Services                             9.5         7.3      16.8
Central Laboratory                         0.6         1.7       2.3
Project Management                         0.7         0.1       0.8
Informatior. Education & Communication     1.8         0.3       2.1
Training of DOH Staff                      6.7         0.1       6.8
Evaluation                                 1.3          -        1.3
Project Preparation/Start-up               1.7         1.2       2.9
Subtotal               25.6        12.8      38.4
Comnunity Health Development
Community Health Development Fund           7.4          -        7.4
Community Health Systems Support            1.2         0.3       1.5
Subtotal                8.6         0.3       8.9
Policy Development   Subtotal                 0.6         -         0.6
Total Base Costs                 57.1       36.8       93.9
Price Contingencies                         10.7         3.8      14.5
Total Project Costs la           67.8       40.6      108.4
Financing Plan
Government of the Philippines           25.9          --      25.9
Goverrnent of Japan                      2.5         1.8       4.3
Government of Italy                      0.2         7.9       8.1
World Bank                              39.2        30.9      70.1
Total                            67.8       40.6      108.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY     1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
Annual       5.0   7.0   9.4  16.2  12.4  12.0   8.1
Cumulative   5.0  12.0  21.4  37.6  50.0  62.0  70.1
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable



- vii -
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Definitions
Annual Parasite              Number of people with positive blood
Incidence (API):             slides collected over a one-year period per
1,000 population.
Barangay:                    The smallest political division in the
Philippines, usually consisting of one or
more villages for an average population of
about 5,000 persons.
Crude Birth Rate:            Number of live births per year per 1,000
population.
Crude Death Rate:            Number of deaths per year per 1,000
population.
Infant Mortality             Annual number of deaths of infants under
Rate:                      1 year per 1,000 live births during the
same year.
*           .Life Expectancy:           Average number of years childre:, born in
the same year can expect to live if
mortality rates for each age/sex group
remain the same in the future.
Maternal                     The number of deaths to women who die
*          Mortality Rate:              due to pregnancy and child bearing
complications in a given year per 1,000
live births in that year.
Morbidity:                   The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Prevalence Rate:             The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1,000 persons per year.
Rate of Population           Rate of natural increase adjusted for
Growth:                   (net) migration expressed as a percentage
of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility              The average number of children that would
Rate:                    be born alive to a woman during her
lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbearing years conforming to the age-
specific fertility rates of a given year.



PHILIPPINES
MEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
l. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government of the Philippines (GOP) achieved an
impressive performance in the 1970s in improving the health and
nutrition status of its people. During the same period, it also
achieved some success, although more limited, in reducing population
growth. The progress in both areas began to slow down in the early
1980s, however, as a result of the economic crisis and consequent
severe reductions in public expenditures (see Annex 1). The
continuation of the economic crisis into the mid-1980s, combined with
the change in administration in early 1986 and subsequent governmental
reorganization, further weakened the Government's ability to reverse
these negative trends. The World Bank report, The Poverty Challenge
in the Philippines (Report No. 7144-PH, October 1988) notes that, as
total expenditures declined, a larger share of the declining public
health resources have been devoted to urban-based curative services,
and rural preventive services have suffered in the process.
1.2      As the economy moves toward recovery, the new administration
has taken important steps to improve resource allocations to the
health sector. In 1987 and 1988, an increased share of total
government resources in nominal terms were allocated to health (from
3.72 in 1986, to 5.4Z in 1987, 5.72 in 1988 and 5.82 for 1989). In
addition, the Government has moved to extend the effect of its limited
resources available for health through a revised community health
str&tegy designed to minimize regional disparities and to focus
priority preventive and prima:y health services on the groups and
geographic areas of greatest need. As part of that strategy, the
Targeted Area Development Programs of the Department of Health (DOH)
provide for additional resource allocations to areas where the health
and nutrition status of the population is nelow the national average.
In addition, the DOH Impact Programs focus resources on priority
health problems. Besides targeting services to groups and areas of
greater need, both of these programs seek more effective health
outcomes and sustainability through greater community self-reliance in
undertaking projects to reduce health risk to their own people. An
essential part of this process is the effort being made to facilitate
partnerships between the DOH and provincial-based non-governmental
organizatinns (NGOs) to initiate and support the implementation of
community health development projects.



II. HEALTH. NUTRITION AND POPULATION STATUS
A. Profile
2.1      Health.  Although the health of the Philippine population
improved significantly during the 1970s, progress towards mortality
reduction in the 1980s has slowed. The crude death rate leclinod from
12 per 1,000 in 1970 to 7.9 per 1,000 in 1985. Life expoctancy at
birth increased from 58 years in 1970 to 63.1 years in 1985; and the
infant mortality rate declined from 75 per 1.000 live births in 1975
to 52.9 per 1,000 live births in 1988. (UNICEF's State of the World's
Children 1988, however, shows the IMR for the Philippines as 76.)
(See Annexes 2 to 6.) Infant mortality, however, still represents
over 20Z of the crude death rate. Forty-one percent of infant deaths
occur during the first 27 days of life. Maternal mortality and
morbidity, while poorly recorded, have been on the increase in the
Philippines since ;980. DOH reports that for every 10,000 births
reported, nine mothers die of pregnancy-related causes, mainly due to
hemorrhage and hypertensive complications.   The leading causes of
death for all ages are still infectious and communicable diseases,
although degenerative diseases are slowly gaining prominence. Health
statistics for 1978-85 indicate that acute respiratory infections and
diarrhea continue to be the major causes of death among infants and
preschool-aged children, with pneumonia the leading cause of infant
deaths.
2.2      There have also been major increases in the incidence of
communicable diseases in the past several years, and especially in the
number of cases of malaria and tuberculosis. Malaria is the most
important tropical parasitic disease in the Philippines and now ranks
as the sixth cause of morbidity and tenth as a cause of mortality. In
the period since 1959, there have twice been attempts to decentralize
the malaria control program; in both cases there was a strong
resurgence of the disease. The second attempt coincided with the
integration and decentralization of DOH services in 1983. During that
period, the country wide prevalence of malaria tripled and the total
number of reported cases rose from about 70,000 to about 180,000.
Chart 1 provides malaria morbidity and mortality trends over time, and
Map 21389 identifies the incidence levels of malaria across the
country.
2.3      Tuberculosis also continues to be a major public health
problem, affecting an estimated 82 of the Philippine population. Over
the past decade, tuberculosis has become one of the ten leading causes
of morbidity and mortality and has caused ten percent of the total
deaths due to infectious diseases over the past five years. With the
Philippines among the five countries with the highest tuberculosis
prevalence for which reliable data exist, tuberculosis in the
Philippines in 1984 ranked fifth as a cause of morbidity and third as
a cause of mortality with an overall prevalence of about 6.6 persons
per 1,000 population. A national tuberculosis survey conducted in
1983 shows that prevalence rates vary by region, with the Western
Visayas, all of Mindanao and the National Capital Region/Manila
showing higher rates than the national average. Highly urbanized
areas and cities exhibit higher prevalence rates than rural areas.



Shortagps of tuberculosis drugs and trained personnel have limited the
number of cases under treatment to 602 of those diagnosed positive for
tuberculosis.
2.4      For schistosomiasis, prevalence surveys show that about
500,000 persons in 150 municipalities and 22 provinces are infected
and about 4 million persons are at risk of the disease. Data for this
and other infoctious diseases indicate that morbidity an0 mortality
rates from preventable causes have stabilised at high levels or are
even increasing. Map IBRD 21388 indicates the known prevalence areas
for schistosomiasis.
2.5      Children aged 0-6 years comprise 201 of the Philippine
population, or about 11.7 million persons in )988. Deaths to children
under 5 years accounted for over 30Z of all reported deaths in 1985,
with infant deaths accounting for over 202 of total deaths. The
infant mortality rate (IDR) was estimated at 56.6 deaths per 1,000
live births in 1985 and 52.9 in 1988; the rates vary greatly, with
depressed areas such as Sulu and Tawi-Tawi registering levels of 133
per 1,000. Child mortality rates are also high, with acute
respiratory infections (ARIs) and diarrhea as the major causes of
death among infants and children. ARIs have overtaken diarrhea as the
major cause of childhood death and illness. Fifty-five percent of the
total under-five mortality is now due to the six ARI-related diseases
of pneumonia, measles, bronchitis, influenza, pertussis and
diphtheria. The 1981-85 average incidence of ARI-related diseases
among the 0-4 year age group was 59 cases per 1000 population, while
the mortality rate was about 5 per 1,000 population. There are
greater numbers of ARI cases in remote areas such as Mindanao and in
crowded urban poor communities. High levels of malnutrition compound
the problem of preventing ARI, as the relationship between infection
and malnutrition is a synergistic one in which malnutrition reduces
resistance to infection and infection, in turn, worsens nutritional
status. This relationship is demonstrated in the greater frequency and
severity of ARI cases among undernourished children and low birth-
weight infants. Pneumonia persists as the single most impcrtant cause
of infant death, with 27Z of infant deaths and 452 of child deaths due
to pneumonia in 1985, or 35Z of total under-five mortality.
2.6      The provision of maternal and child health (MCH) services has
been on the decline throughout the 1980s. Annually, approximately two
million women in the Philippines become pregnant; 9 out of every
10.000 women die each year of pregnancy-related causes. Deaths are
maiiLly due to hemorrhage (37Z) and hypertensive complications of
pregnancy (282). Over the 1981-83 period, survey data indicated that
provision of prenatal care declined by about 38Z, childbirth
attendance by around 292 and post-natal care by 852. Although DOH
reports show that around 702 of pregnant women are seen at least once
in a prenatal clinic, hospital and city-based data indicate that of
the urban women delivered in hospitals, around 652 are admitted as
emergencies with no proper antenatal care. Maternal illnesses such as
anemia and undernutrition affect almost half of all pregnant women.
These conditions have been correlated with high fetal loss. The
foregoing conditions of high maternal mortality and morbidity are
closely associated with multiparity and infrequent and low quality of
antenatal care.



2.7      Nutrition.  Nutritional problems in the Philippines are
primarily those of dietary/nutrient inadequacies among preschool
children and pregnant and nursing mothers. Despite survey data
indicating improvements in the early 1980s, the nutrition situation
appears to have worsened steadily since the late 1970s when the
economic downturn began to accelerate. Preschool children constitute
about 201 of the population and have been identified as the population
group most likely to be affected by malnutrition and most likely to
suffer from its consequences. A 1988 UNICEF Report states that the
Philippires is among those Asian countries with the highest percentage
of infants with low birth weight and the highest percentage of
children under five suffering from malnutrition. In 1978, the
proportion of children below weight-for-height standards was 14Z; this
number declined to around 1OZ in 1982, but rose again to 14Z in 1985.
2.8      Population.  There has been a major increase in the
population of the Philippines over the past two decades. The
population grew from 27 million in 1960 to 55 million in 1985,
representing an average growth rate of 3.02 in the 1960s and 2.7Z in
the 1970s. Between 1960 and 1975, the crude birth rate has actually
risen slightly, reflecting an increase in the number of women in
childbearing years, earlier age of marriage, adoption by the family
planning program of less effective contraceptive methods (such as
rhythm) and a slow decline in female fertility. The total fertility
rate declined from about 7.0 in the 1960s to around 4.96 in 1980, and
has declined slightly more to 4.84 in 1984. Based on the 1983 and
1986 demographic surveys, the current population growth rate is
estimated to be 2.4Z, one of the highest in Asia. The 1988 World
Development Report estimates that for the period 1986-2000 the average
growth rate will decline only 0.1 Z, to 2.3Z.   If present trends
continue, and only a slight decline in fertility takes place during
the next 20 years, the population will almost double during this
period. A recent review of family planning statistics condtucted by
the National Census Office indicates that from an all-time high of
417,971 family planning acceptors in FY1975-76, the count had dwindled
to 144,658 by 1985. Most available projections for the Philippines
indicate a substantial increase in its population for the rest of the
century.
2.9      Family planning services were first offered in the
Philippines in the 1950s by NGOs, and their activities expanded in the
1960s with external assistance. The national ftmily planning program
began in 1970 with the Population Commission (POPCOM) as coordinating
body for agencies engaged in population and family planning
activities.  Since the 1986 change in Government, there has been a
Dignificant national debate about the Government's population policy
and family planning program. In 1987, the Government adopted a new
population policy that endorses family planning for family welfare.
While ruling out abortion, the policy endorses the right of women to
choose for themselves the means to control their fertility among
medically safe methods. A five-year population program has since been
developed for 1989-1993 that sets overall objectives and scope of
activities but is deficient in not specifying agency-specific programs
or resource requirements.



-5-
2.10     Recently, it was decided to make DOE the lead agency for
family planning service delivery and to remove operational
responsibility from the Population Commission. The Commission will in
the future function as a policy coordination and monitoring and
evaluation agency. The DOH has adopted a set uf guidelines to
implement this transfer of operational responsibility and is
finalizing an intersectoral plan for the national family planning
program. Substantial assistance on grant terms for the five-year
family plannlng program is expected to be provided by the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). NGOs are expected to
play significant roles in service delivery supported by the Department
of Health. The proposed Bank-assisted project would support the
program through its support for a substantial increase in the number
of midwives, who are the major suppliers of community-level family
planning services.
B. Health Sector Organization, Services, Exyenditures and Financing
2.11     Organization.  The DOH is the principal health policy-making
and implementing agency of the Government. It has five organizational
levels: (a) the central level, comprising DOH headquarters; (b) the
regional level, including offices of the regional directors of health
and general and special hospitals; (c) the provincial level, including
offices of the provincial health officers and provincial and district
hospitals; (d) the level which includes the municipal health officer;
and (e) Rural Health Units, (RHUs) including midwives and Barangay
(village) Health Stations (BHSs). At DOH are five major offices
headed by Undersecretaries of Health, with an Executive Committee to
decide program policies and priorities. A reorganization in 1988
streamlined DOH management in order to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of health service delivery. The 1988 reorganization
transferred responsibility for the operational budget to the
provincial level, expanded the physical coverage of the public health
care system, particularly to the barangay level, and helped clarify
responsibilities at each level of the health-care delivery system (see
Charts 2 and 3 on DOH's organization).
2.12     Services.  Health services are provided by DOH and by other
government and non-government agencies. In 1986, there were 1,949
hospitals, about 702 private and 302 public. Of the total number of
hospitals, half were for primary care and were mostly owned by the
private sector.  Most of the private facilities are relatively small
hospitais, located mainly in urban areas, with limited diagnostic and
treatment capabilities. Their rapid growth in the 19709 was partially
erncouraged by a government policy that provided credits for their
finaicing. The public and for-profit private health-care facilities
are supplemented by various NGOs, which provide mainly primary care
services, including maternal and child health, family planning and
nutrition services. Most NGOs focus on the depressed areas of the
country and their services represent only a small part of the total
Philippine service capacity. A majority of the rural population
continues to rely upon the services of traditional health
practitioners, especially for pregnancy and childbirth care.



2.13     Realizing that it had no effective strategy for reaching
families in their communities and households, the Government in the
early 1980s adopted a national comunity-bas3d Primary Health Care
(PHC) program, with support from the Bank-assisted Second Population
Project (Cr. 923-PH). The PHC system was adopted as the framework for
servLce delivery to the rural poor in their communities and by 1985
had been introduced in most of the country. The program drew on the
experience of many large-and small-scale PHC experiments which had
been underway in the Philippines for years. The strategy expanded
services by making use of voluntary community and barangay-level
workers, decentralized program management and budgeting and encouraged
the integration of preventive and curative services at the provincial
level and below. Local government involvement and pL ticipation were
expanded. Evaluations of program effectiveness are mixed.
2.14     At the same time that DOH adopted the PHC program, it also
decentralized its health program activities and health service
administration. This included (a) decentralization of central level
responsibility for planning, programming and budgeting to the
provincial level and below; (b) integration of curative and preventive
health services in the provincial health office and district hospital;
and (c) development o. a community outreach program through the
training of volunteer community health workers.
2.15     In addition, special categorical disease control programs for
malaria, tuberculosis, etc., which were formerly vertically organized
from the central to the barangay level, were largely dismantled in the
expectation that program activities would be taken over bv the new
primary care approach. This expectation was not fulfilled due to the
technical complexity and administrative and logistical control
required for effective implementation of these programs. With
decentralization and the redeployment of program workers to carry out
the range of activities related to the primary health care program,
technical supervision of disease control efforts significantly
deteriorated, as did management of materials and supplies.   The new
reliance on volunteer workers, who often lacked the specialized skills
to carry out the categorical programs, and cortinuous shortages of
important supplies for the programs due to budget limitations and the
diversion of transport vehicles, resulted in high dropout rates from
the programs and increased incidence of the diseases addressed under
the programs.
2.16     The DOH has now reevaluated its community-based health
development policy and recently formulated a new approach which
includes NGO participation as a partner. This strategy includes some
elements of the earlier PHC program, but is designed to remedy the
technical deficiencies noted above by reconstituting the vertical
disease-control programs. The strategy alters the highly structured,
top-down prescriptive approach to delivery of community-based health
services carried out mainly by DOH personnel, to a partnership among
the DOH, local governments, NGOs and other governmental institutions.
The goal is to retain the technicai skill advantage of the vertically
organized programs, while assuring their integration, where
appropriate, with existing horizontal programs to help ensure
efficient use of common resources. The Government and DOH recognize



-7-
that even the availability of greatly expanded resources for the
health sector cannot fill existing needs without major support from
the communities being served and from NGO or private organizations
active in providing similar services.
2.17     Recently the DOE has undertaken an extensive re-evaluation of
its fragmented MCI and family planning services. The new MCB/family
planning approach integrates health services at the peripheral level
(R1U and barangay). The new approach focusses on modifying risk to
women and children, with priority placed on identLfying and reaching
communities (barangays and households) where the women and children
are at highest risk. Modifying child risk would involve integrating
jimunization treatment of acute respiratory illness, oral rehydration,
linkage of food supplementation to nutritional deficiences and
provision of micro-nutrient supplementation. Modification of maternal
risk will focus on early identification, appropriate referral and
monitoring of high risk pregnancies, family planning and pre- and
post-natal care. Vitamins, iron and other micro-nutrient
supplementatiorn would be provided women in the childbearing years.
USAID and UNFPA are now adapting their DOH support mechanisms, in
order to provide direct budget support to the DOH's integrated
MCH/family planning program.
2.18     DOH service delivery is also constrained by a shortage of
midwives in many areas of the country. Deployed first as DOH staff in
the early 19709, midwives have proved to be effective and relatively
low-cost providers of health care within the community. At the time
of the first Bank-assisted Population Project (Ln. 1035-PH) in the
early 19709, the role of midwives focussed on the care of normal
childbearing women through pregnancy and the first months of their
child's life. The Population I project provided resources for the
extension of the family planning program to small towns and rural
arear and included resources for the retraining of midwives to
expedite this process. The Population II project (Cr. 923-PH)
provided resources for the construction of over 1000 BHSs, (the health
facility base for midwives) and for their continued training. With
the cou4ng of PHC, however, the role of the midwives was greatly
expanded to include the provision of services in many of DOH's
vertical programs and major community organization responsibilities.
Inevitably, the focus on maternal care and family planning was diluted
as major new responsibilities were added to those already handled by
the midwives. The number of midwives in the field remains sharply
inadequate in light of the Government's commitment to improved health
care, especially to high-risk households and communities. The
Government has recently approved the reduction of the current 5000:1
population-to-midwife ratio to 3000:1 for underserved areas.
2.19     Expenditures. A significant fall in the GNP in real terms in
the period 1983-85 led to an even greater decline in total health
expenditure, which fell from 2.9Z of GNP in 1983 to 2.42 in 1985. At
constant prices, total health expenditure decreased by 192 in the two-
year period. The decline in aggregate health expenditure was greater
in the public than in the private sector. Thus, while the public
sector accounted for 382 of total health expenditure in 1983, it
accounted for only 262 of the smaller total in 1985.



2.20     The reduction in health expenditure in the public sector
reflected an overall decrease in Government expenditure as a
percentage of GNP. Reductions in Government health expenditure were
greater than were the general cutbacks in total Government
expenditure. Accordingly, the health share of central Government
expenditure declined from 4.42 in 1983 to 3.6Z in 1985. During this
period, outlays at constant prices by the public sector on health
declined by 452, and those in the private sector by only 42. In view
of the emphasis on curative care in the private sector and the more
substantial input into preventive services in the public sector, these
cutbacks in public health expenditure placed great pressure on the
availability of funds for preventive services, resulting in DOH
preventive services budget reductions of nearly 502 at current prices.
2.21     These trends in public expenditure continued in 1986.  A real
and substantial increase in GNP in 1987 and 1988 and greater priority
given to the public sector resulted in an increase in Government
expenditure as a percentage of GNP to 122 in 1988, which is still
below that in 1983. The health share of central Government
expenditure in 1988 was 3.42 of the total, a substantial improvement
on 2.62 in 1987, but still well below the 4.42 for 1983. It is also
below the average of 42 for the lower-middle-income countries.
Present plans are for the health share of central Government
expenditure to increase gradually from the annual average of 3.9? in
the period 1976-85, to an E4erage of 6.3Z in the period 1987-92, to
9.62 in 1992. The planned increaseL in real health expenditure by the
public sector places great emphasis on increasing the capacity of
preventive and other outreach services related to priority public
health problems, such as malaria, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis,
diarrheal diseases and maternal and child health.
2.22     DOH Recurrent Costs.  DOH annual recurrent expenditure
declined by 332 between 1983 and 1985, in constant terms although
the recurrent expenditure budgeted increased by 532 in the two-year
period 1985-87, also at constant prices. The level of DOH capital
expenditure has changed by as much as 802 in a single year at constant
prices; accordingly, the recurrent/capital cost ratio has changed from
9.5 in 1983 to 17.4 in 1985 and 13.1 in 1987. The varying rates of
change in recurrent and capital expenditures are reflected in the
proportion of recurrent to total DOH expenditure. Changes in the
proportion of recurrent to total DOH expenditure show an inverse
relationship to the growth in DOH total expenditure at constant
prices. Thus, the proportion of recurrent expenditure increased from
912 of the total in 1983 to 952 in 1985, as total expenditure declined
at constant prices, and declined to 932 in 1987, as expenditure
increased at constant prices.
2.23     Funding Sources.  Most of the financial resources used by DOH
come from central Government general funds. User charges and other
operating income have been estimated to contribute the equivalent of
42 of funds used, and are paid into the goverr sent's general revenue
funds. Foreign loans and grants have played a minor financial role in
funding health services (42 of total public health spending in 1983),
but their contribution increased to 72 as central Government



expenditure declined at constant prices in 1983-85. The planned
growth in DOH expenditure in the period 1989-1992 is to be funded by a
significant increase in the taxation effort of the central Government
from a growing GNP. This appears to be realistic if present efforts
are sustained: central Government tax revenue has increased from
11.51 of GNP in 1985 to 14.7S in 1987. The forecast rate for 1992 is
14.72 of a larger GNP.
C. Sectoral Issues
2.24     Increasing Incidence of Major Communicable Diseases.  The
combination of past organizational and structural changes in national
disease control programs and reduced financial resources has resulted
in weak and ineffective programs and an alarming increase in the
incidence of disease. Management of the control programs suffered
greatly in the early 1980s from the rapid decentralization of
responsibility which occurred without adequate provision for continued
technical supervision, from dependence on untrained multipurpose field
personnel as program staff and from sharp declines in supplies of
drugs and other program materials. Vector control efforts for many
prograwn diminished sharply with the new reliance on voluntary (and
usually unskilled) workers to carry out complex and sometimes
unpleasant program tasks. Inadequate transport and storage
arrangements led to shortages in all types of program materials.
There were also no mechanisms under the decentralized system to
readjust specific intervention strategies when such strategies became
inappropriate over time, as when certain drugs lost their usefulness
due to parasite resistance.
2.25     Weak Maternal and Child Health Services.  Maternal and child
health activities within DOH have been highly fragmented in the past.
Unlike the categorical disease programs, which typically have clear
geographical foci, single chains of institutional command within the
DOH, employ uni-purpose workers and receive funding from a single
external source, DOH's MCH activities overlap with those of many other
health programs and have suffered from the lack of a clear integrating
strategy at the service delivery level. The situation for child
health services has improved somewhat in recent years, as major donors
such as USAID and UNICEF have provided support for a range of child
survival activities. Services to minimize the risks associated with
pregnancy and childbearing have not received similar levels of
support.
2.26     DOH's Institutional Weakness. Structural weakness in DOH
management systems was partially addressed by the recently completed
reorganization. As a result, more focussed targeting of services to
clients is being undertaken, and critical operating systems such as
procurement and budgeting are being streamlined. WHO and USAID
supported development of a health information system and the
Population II Project (Cr. 923-PH) provided the DOH with microcomputer
and radio communication equipment at central and regional levels.
Much, however, remains to be done to overcome past institutional
neglect and deterioration of assets. Basic health systems at the
field level have received little upgrading for years while field
personnel skills now lag behind the demands placed upon them.



- 10 _
2.27     Many of the institutional weaknesses of DOH can be traced to
the failure of the health system to expand its resources to match
increases in population size and changing service demand patterns.
When resources have been available, their impact was often diminished
through wasteful duplication of effort in areas such as training;
information, education and comiuncation (IZC); and evaluation.
Although substantial amounts of government and external support have
been used in these three areas, in particular, the impact of these
investments has been limited.
2.28     One of the major policy changes initiated by DOH in the early
1980s was the attempt to decentralize the administration of health
services (see para. 2.14). The attempted decentralization is
generally viewed as having been implemented too fast and by fiat
vithout adequate preparation. As DOH has moved ahead of other
Government agencies in implementing decentralized activities, it has
had to develop wholly new policies to deal with new administrative
situations. Each level of the DOH system, beginning with the RHUs and
moving upward through district, provincial, regional and central
levels, was confronted with policy and procedural demands new to it.
Planning, budgeting, procurement and financial responsibilities,
formerly exclusively the domain of the central and regional DOH, were
given to lower levels, but these levels were poorly prepared to handle
the new management responsibilities.
2.29     Limited DOH Capacity to P'an, Monitor and Evaluate the Health
System. Further efforts to decentralize DOH are likely to flounder
without substantial upgrading of existing systems for budgeting,
accounting and auditing of DOH programs, for collecting and processing
data on health status and health management, and for strengthening
procurement and logistics. At present, Government budgeting systems
make it very difficult for line agencies to track program inputs
against desired outputs. Funds allocated to DOH for a given program
and spent at the center can be monitored with reasonable certainty,
but health activities implemented at the provincial level or below are
financed from a lump-sum allocation provided to the provincial health
officer. As a result, despite guidelines from the center regarding
relative priorities and targeting among various health programs as
well as between preventive and curative health functions, the DOH has
had difficulty in determining whether such expenditures adhere to
department priorities.
2.30     Health statistics and health management data systems have
been weakened by a variety of problems, including lack of uniformity
in reporting by geographical region, large amounts of health provider
time required for report preparation, significant loss of data during
transfer from one level of DOH to another, inefficient manual
processing of data and inadequate standardization of format, content
and management of health records. These systems moved data upwards
through the health system to fill its multiple requirements but did
not allow for data analysis, with the result that lcier levels of the
system received little or no feedback. Over the past decade,
substantial amounts of external assistance, notably from the Bank
Group, USAID and WHO, have gone into the development of DOH health and
management information systems.



- 11 -
2.31     Need to Reach Impoverished Communities.  The DOH has
designated about 452 of the country's barangays as *hardship areas
for which the standard health service delivery mechanisms are
inadequate. Innovative and integrated approaches to commnity health
development are required to raise the health status levels of these
communities to the existing national average, thus reducing current
marked regional health disparities. The mobilization of latent
communit7 resources for health will be needed if major improvements in
health status are to be achieved and sustained. To this end, the DOH
has recognized the need to forge viable partnerships with MGOs and
local government units in order to address the needs of commnities
for which the standard interventions have not succeeded. The
partnership arrangement is expected to enhance the flexibility of
existing DOH programs and supplement its technical resources with the
community development skills of the NGOs.
2.32      Inequitable Distribution of Health Services.  The Governament
spends most of its health resources on curative care, and since 1982
the proportion. spent for preventive care has been declining. Between
1981 and 1985 the proportion of Government spending for preventive
care fell from 372 to 282; in contrast, the proportion of Government
spending for curative care rose from 54Z in 1982 to 63Z in 1985. A
large part of public spending on curative care went to support public
hospitals: such expenditures rose from 552 of total DOH expenditures
in 1981 to 71? in 1985.
2.33      The distribution of facilities for curative care is also
skewed, as private hospitals are largely concentrated in the urban
areas of the country. The National Capital Region accounted for nearly
one third of the total number of hospital beds (90,000) in 1985 and
had a bed-to-population ratio of 1:234, which is significantly less
than the national average of 1:607. All the other regions were above
the national average. Health providers also tend to be concentrated
in urban areas. For example, DOH doctors are highly concentrated in
Luzon, while continuing vacancies exist for rural health physicians.
Regional per capita health expenditures reflect the regional/urban
bias, with only the National Capital Region and kegion II (northwest
Luzon) consistently having per capita expenditures above the national
average during 1981-1985.
2.34      Policy Research Needs in Health.  Policy development in
health has traditionally been undertaken by the DOH in response to
requests from outside, either from possible external funding agencies
or as part of an upcominig national development plan. Only rarely have
these analyses been applied to ongoing programs or used as the basis
for the development of new ones. Now, however, as demand for health
services grows in tandem with population increases, and continuing
resource constraints place limits on the services that can
realistically be provided, DOH needs to be guided by clear policies
and priorities in its provision of services. Furthermore, since
various agencies can ultimately affect the outcome of health and
nutrition programs, a mechanism is needed by which DOH and other
concerned agencies can jointly formulate sound policies; at present,
no such mechanism exists.



- 12 -
D. Government Policies and Strategies
2.35     Government Policy and Objectives.  The Government's Medium-
Term Development Plan (1987-1992), updated in July 1988, articulates a
health development policy which aims to: (a) expand and improve
comnmuicable disease control, with emphasis on the targeting of areas
with the greatest needs; (b) strengthen decentralization of the health
network and collaboration among DON, local governments, private
providers of health services and NGOa in the development of effective
coemunity-based services: (cc strengthen planning, management,
coanmication and evaluation capacities of the health sector; (d)
strengthen the regulatory functions of the Government and balance
public and private sector roles in the provision of curative care; (e)
expand investments in the health sector and broaden the mechanisms for
financing health services; and (f) promote responsible parenthood and
strengthening of family planning. Annex 8 summarizes the goals of the
plan. In 1987, a new family planning policy was adopted that promotes
responsible parenthood and individual choice in controlling fertility
among medically safe methods, except for abortion. The policy assigns
DOH the responsibility for the delivery of family planning services,
including support to NGOs and other government agencies.
2.36     To address the broad range of issues facing the sector, the
Government's strategy is to allocate increased resources to the sector
while seeking efficiency improvements, and to emphasize improvements
in public and primary health care in the near term, while laying the
groundwork for improvements in curative care service delivery and
financing in the longer term. Already, the new administration has
taken important initial steps toward these ends. Since 1987, an
increasing share of government expenditures has been allocated to
health, and this trend would continue in the 1989 budget (para. 2.21).
A new drug policy has been adopted that is expected to improve
significantly cost-efficiency in drug use and procurement. A new
Health Information System (HIS) has been developed with assistance
from USAID and WHO, and DOH has made substantial progress in designing
and testing a new program budgeting system and in revising the design
of its Management Information Systeni (MIS). The DOH has increased
immiunization coverage, improved program performance in diarrheal
disease control and launched a program for the control of acute
respiratory infections. To extend the effect of the still very
limited resources available for health, DOH has also developed a new,
revised community health strategy designed to minimize regional
disparities and to focus priority preventive health resources on
groups and geographic areas of greatest needs (para. 1.2).
E. Bank Group Role and Strategy
2.37     Experience with Previous Projects.   The Bank Group's health
sector project work in the Philippines began over a decade ago with a
first Population Project (Ln. 1035-PH), followed in 1979 by a second
Population Project (Cr. 923-PH). The most significant activity under
the first Population Project was DOH's hiring, training and utilizing
of midwives under a restructured health care delivery system: this
component helped improve the quality and availability of health



- 13 -
services in rural areas. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR
No. 5544) for Population I noted that benefits from the midwives were
likely to be sustained over the long term and also noted that the
DOB'e major policy initiative of introducing a decentralized
nationwide PHC system under the Second Population Project was made
possible because of the availability of the trained midwives in many
parts of the country. Both projects suffered, however, from
disbursement lags due in part to inadequate counterpart funds and in
part to cumbersom Government procedures for transferring money
between Government agencies.  The Population St Special Account, which
was established several years after effectiveness to alleviate some of
these problems, became itself an example of many of these
difficulties. Review of its procedures showed that the Special
Account merely serves as a bookkeeping account for the DOH within the
Central Bank and is subject to the same restrictions as DOH's regular
budgeted funds. The proposed project includes disbursement and funds
flow procedures designed to reduce the implementation delays which
affected both previous projects.
2.38     Schistosomiasis control activities have been undertaken as
components of four previous Bank projects, including National
Irrigation I and II (Loans 1414-PH and 1526-PH, respectively), Rural
Development II (Ln. 1421-PH) and Samar Island Rural Development (Ln.
1772-PH).    Malaria control activities were undertaken as part of the
Medium Scale Irrigation Project (Ln. 1809-PH). Bank financing for
these disease control activities amounted to about US$27.0 million.
These activities were executed successfully and on time by DOH, and
schistosomiasis has ceased to be of public health importance in the
areas covered by these components.
2.39     Rationale for Bank Involvement and Lending Strategy.
Through its involvement in the two previous population projects, the
Bank has played an important role, not only as a provider of resources
for the expansion and improvement of the Government's family planning
and health development programs, but also as an active participant in
policy dialogue with the Government and other major donors to the
sector. The proposed project would continue and expand this dialogue
and would serve as a vehicle for the absorption of significant grant
assistance to the sector through cofinancing. The project would thus
assist the Government in addressing priority needs in its poverty
alleviation efforts and would support the recommendations of the
previously-mentioned Bank study of poverty in the Philippines (para.
1.1), which identified priorities for action, including expansion and
improved targeting of public health and nutrition expenditures and
measures that would support maternal and child health services,
fertility reduction and community-based health initiatives
2.40     It is expected that activities initiated under this project
would enable DOH to begin to address the longer term issues facing the
hospital sector aad the health finance sector and that this process
could result in another Bank-assisted project in these areas.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1      The project is intended to support the Government's
priorities to expand and improve public and primary health care,
especially for high-risk groups; strengthen the efficiency and
effectiveness of the DOug promote collaboration among the Government,
local co sunitieu and NCOs in meeting counaity health needs; and
establish improved mechanisms for future policy development. Specific
objectives of the project would be tot
(a) achieve improvements in the control of major communicable and
endemic diseases;
(b) reduce infant and child deaths as well as maternal mortality
and fertility;
(c) upgrade institutional capacities of the DOH at all levels to
improve program effectiveness and managerial efficiency;
(d) promote health equity by targeting services to presently
under-served areas and high-risk groups according to degrees
of risk and/or disease prevalence;
(e)  strengthen partnerships among the DOH, local governments and
NGOs to improve the health conditions of local residents hile
at the same time developing local capabilities for
participatory planning and self reliance in undertaking
community health projects; and
(f) establish improved planning and consultation mechanisms for
longer-tetm improvements in health policies and programs.
B. Project Description
3.2     The project, with base costs of US$93.9 million equivalent, would
be implemented over six years. The start date would be February 1989 when
initial expenditures under the Japan Grant Facility were made. It would
consist of the following components:
(i)  Four DOH Impact Programs (US$46.0 million base cost),
comprising:
(a) Malaria Control Program (US$19.8 million base cost).
This component would assist the Government in reducing
malaria to a level that no longer constitutes a public
health problem, and would include: (a) drugs and
equipment for epidemiological surveillance and treatment;
(b) pesticides, equipment and vehicles for vector
control, including residual spraying and elimination of
breeding sites; (c) technical assistance for operations
research and evaluation; and (d) incremental operating
costs.



- 15 -
(b) Tuberculosis Control Program (US$14.9 million base cost).
This component would strengthen the National Tuberculosis
Control Program through improvements in case-finding, at-
home patient treatment and follow-up of cases and would
include: (a) drugs for tuberculosis treatment; (b)
equipment, vehicles and materials for the upgrading of
selected microscopy centers in existing health facilities
for case identification; (b) staff training; (c)
technical assistance for research and evaluation; and (d)
incremental operating costs.
(c) Schistosomiasis Control Program (US$8.3 million base
cost). This component would assist the Schistosomiasis
Program to sharply reduce the prevalence rate of the
disease in schistosomiasis-infected areas to about 12 of
the exposed population over the five-year project
implementation period and would include: (a) drugs,
equipment, vehicles, materials and technicel assistance
for case-finding and for snail control; (b) drugs for
treatment of the disease; and (c) incremental operating
costs.
(d) Maternal and Child Health Program (US$3.0 million base
cost). This component would strengthen programs designed
to reduce illness and death for women and children
through the provision of micro-nutrients for both groups
and support for the ARI program (para. 2.5) and would
expand health and family planning services by the
employment of 2,000 additional rural health midwives
included under the Strengthening the DOH's Institutional
Capacity component (below). The MCH component would
include: (a) vitamin A and iron nutrient supplementation
to strengthen childhood resistanice to disease, iron to
reduce maternal anemia and vitamin A to prevent and treat
xerophthalmia blindness; (b) drugs and equipment for
treatment of ARIs; (c) materials, training and technical
assistance to improve seriice delivery; and (d)
incremental operating costs.
(ii) Strengthening the DOH's Institutional Capacity (US$38.4
million base cost). This component would support the DOH's
efforts to upgrade its operating and management systems by,
among other things, improving management information and
communications systems, planning and bldgeting procedures and
capabilities and services delivery capacity. Funds would be
provided for communications and information equipment and
materials, laboratory equipment, vehicles for field units, IEC
materials, provincial planning seminars, staff training,
technical assistance, project staff on contract, and
incremental operating costs.
(iii) Community Health Development (US$8.9 million base cost). This
compoG,ent would provide direct grant support for the
organizing and implewenting of provincial-level partnerships



- 16 _
between government and NGOs to facilitate local coumunity
action. The project would provide planning and project grants
to consortia composed of local governments, field offices of
the DON and NGOs to carry out coanity health development
activities. Funds would be provided for grants, computer
materials and progrm manuals, equipment and one vehicle,
technical assistance and training, and incremental operating
costs.
(iv) Policy Development (US$0.6 million base cost). This component
would provide technical assistance, contract staff and studies
to support the establishuent of institutional arrangements to
facilitate improved planning as well as policy and program
development.
C. Detailed Project Description
Strengthening DOH Health Impact Programs
3.3     Malaria Control Program (MCP).   Malaria remains a major health
problem in the Philippines. The resurgence of the disease during the years
of decentralized malaria services since 1983 attests to the steady
deterioration of control efforts. Under the DOH decentralization, the
program's separate management structure was merged with that of other
primary health care programs, resulting in a significant dilution of
technical supervision efforts. Uni-purpose malaria program workers were
converted to multi-purpose workers who now had many new demands on their
time, and materials and supply management deteriorated. The primary health
care program goal of having multi-purpose workers provide services under
all health programs was too ambitious. The new reliance on volunteer
workers worked less well in categorical (single-purpose) health programs as
such workers often lacked special skills, and dropout rates from the
program were h_gh.  Malaria transport vehicles were diverted to other
programs; this diversion led to continuous shortages of important supplies
for the program. (See Map IBRD 21389.)
3.4     With the return to a focussed approach to disease control and the
reestablishment of the MCP, the overall program goal would be to revitalize
malaria control and reduce the incidence of the disease to a level that no
longer constitutes a public health problem in the country. The project
would support efforts under MCP to prevent reestablishment of endemicity in
previously malaria-free areas, and to recapture earlier gains.
Stratification of areas according to endemicity would be undertaken
annually to establish target areas for the following year.
3.5     The major adtivity of the MCP woluld be chemical vector (mosquitos)
control in which DDT and other pesticides would be sprayed into about 90
percent of houses in endemic areas. Mosquitoes landing on interior sprayed
walls absorb the pesticide and die; at this strength, however, the
pesticide is not considered a significant risk to humans and animals. The
project would finance the purchase of about 650 tons of pesticides and
1,100 spraycans for use in barangay homes. Spraying schedules would vary
in accordance with the annual parasite incidence and would be handled by
the provincial level malaria organization. Locally hired and trained



- 17 -
spraymen would be directed and supervised by squad leaders who would report
to a malaria sector chief. The project would provide 90 pick-up vans and
15 pump boats to the provinces for personnel transport. In addition, the
RHU health educacors, assisted by the spraying sector chief and crew, would
help organize community brigades to eliminate breeding sites through
drainage, filling, impounding, and straightening and clearing of stream
banks. Use of biological controls, including larva-eating fish and other
natural enemies of the mosquito larvae, would also be encouraged. The
project would also finance extensive training for spraymen and supervisors.
3.6     Besides the reduction of the malaria mosquito, the project would
support the treatment of active cases of malaria throught (a) passive
case-finding (investigation of febrile cases); (b) active case-finding
(serological surveys); and (c) epidemiological investigation of positive
cases. Remedial measures for positive cases would include presumptive
treatment throigh the administration of medication, for which the project
would finance 380,000 courses of anti-malaria treatment.
3.7     Information about the prevention and treatment of malaria would be
provided by the health educators who, in cooperation with provincial
coordinators of the MCP, would disseminate information on the transmission
cycle of the disease and on personal protection using interpersonal and
community-oriented methodologies. Health education programs would promote
community treatment of mosquito nets with pesticides to supplement house
spraying and the use of other insect repellents. The project would provide
support for the development of IEC materials for this purpose under the
Strengthening the DOH lnstitutional Capacity component (para 3.37) and for
incremental operating costs.
3.8     An important part of the MCP would be operations research.  This
research would focus on areas most relevant to the implementation of the
*        intensified MCP and would include the following topics already identified:
j         (a) testing of new anti-malarial drugs; (b) screening and testing of
alternative insecticides; (c) vector control and survei1lance activity
evaluation; (d) alternative malaria control measures and (e) community-
based approaches to the control of malaria.
3.9     Tuberculosis Control Program (TCP).  The main objective of this
component would be to assist the DOH in strengthening the Tuberculosis
Control Program through support for training, acquisition of drugs and
equipment, research, technical assistance and staff salaries. The program
would seek to increase tb,'e number of diagnosed and treated cases from the
current 160,000 and 90,000, respectively, to 250,000 diagnosed and treated
cases, increase the pledge and technical skill of medical and support
personnel, and develop an accelerated training program for health
providers. The percentage of treated cases would increase from 36Z of the
diagnosed cases at present to 1002 of the diagnosed cases by the end of the
project.
3.10    To carry out these activities, microscopy centers would be set up
in strategic RHUs or hospitals and a medical technologist hired as
microscopist for each. Existing centers would be upgraded with adequate
equipment, personnel and supplies. In total, about 500 microscopy centers
would be established nationwide, of which 208 would be new centers set up



- 18 -
in areas without reasonable access to existing centers. A total of 800 new
binocular microscopes would be purchased for the new centers and as
replacements for outdated equipment in existing centers. The microscopist
function included in each of the three disease programs has been designed
not to overlap.
3.11    The project would support a specialized training program for
tuberculosis control. In particular. natioral tuberculosis seminars would
be organized to provide training for regional directors, tuberculosis
consultants, and regional nurse supervisurs. Seminars would also be held
at the regional level for physicians, senior public health nurses and other
staff. Training would also be provided for tuberculosis microscopists,
modical technologists, senior residents of district and provincial
hospitals, and physicians in charge of government and non-government
organizations. In addition, the program would undertake the development of
an IEC campaign which would focus on the barangay captain-community leaders
and NGO representatives.
3.12    The project would provide drugs and equipment essential to the
control program, including 185,000 courses of short-course chemotherapy.
In addition, the project would finance selected field expenses including
staff travel and supervision costs. A total of 56 consultant-months of
technical assistance would be provided to strengthen the program and to
reinforce, in particular, the training program and studies on progress and
effectiveness.
3.13    Schistosomiasis Control Program (SCP).  Schistosomiasis is a blood
fluke infection which is acquired from water containing larval forms which
have developed in snails. Past locally funded programs to reduce the
prevalence of schistosomiasis have usually had limited success as they have
suffered from shortages of staff, equipment and drugs. Such shortages made
it impossible to eradicate the i.termediate host vector (the snail) or to
carry out health education/training programs to foster community self-
reliance in controlling transmission of the disease.
3.14    With the success of the drug Praziquantel in schistosomiasis
treatment, the national control program has shifted its emphasis from
disease transmibsion to disease control. The goal of the SCP over the next
five years is to reduce the prevalence rate in endemic barangays to about
1Z. The project would finance case-finding and treatment, vector control,
and research.
3.15    Under the project, all endemic municipalities would have a
schistosomiasis control team consisting of a driver, a stool collector, a
public health nurse, and one or more microscopists. The team would carry
out stool collection and analysis to determine individual infection, and
would provide treatment for all individuals one year old and older. Teams
would be provided with a facility for stool examinations, separate from the
existing RHUs. The project would provide essential equipment including 200
microscopes. Quality of stool examination would be randomly checked by
sending one slide per 10 to 20 slides from those found positive and one
slide per 50 to 100 for those found negative for validation and
identification of intestinal parasites at regional or district hospitals or
other competent laboratories.



- 19 -
3.16    To encourage annual testing of persons in endemic areas, stools
would be examined for intestinal parasites, and appropriate anthelminthic
and hematinic drugs would be administered. Cases would be treated with
Praziquantel on scheduled days. The project would provide Praziquantel
treatment for about 180,000 patients. Serious cases, as well as severely
malnourished infected individuals, would be treated at district hospitals
by resident physicians and public health nurses. Treatment vould include
other supportive drugs for side reactions. Some 24 vehicles and 170
motorcycles, would also be provided u.:der the project.
3.17    The program would include mapping of snail colonies, especially
those close to population centers, clearing of vegetation, and provision of
adequate drainage prior to focal application of pesticides to kill the
snails. The project would finance the purchase of 9 tons of the pesticide
niclosamide for focal mollusciciding, which would be executed by DOH
personnel. The clearing of vegetation and drainage works would be carried
out with assistance from communities and pertinent government agencies such
as the Department of Local Government and Community Development and the
National Irrigation Authority.
3.18    Schistosomiasis IEC efforts would be coordinated with the broader
DOH health education campaigns. The Research and Training Division of the
Schistosomiasis Control Service has identified a series of research topics
for support under the project, including drug resistance to Praziquantel
and the screening and identification of appropriate molluscicides, plants
and synthetics useful for focal mollusciciding aid eventual snail control
beyond 1993. The project would also finance, as an operational research
project, an attempt to eradicate schistosomiasis in six barangays of Bohol
Province. This would involve case- finding, treatment, and focal
mollusciciding and would be evaluated after four years to determine the
success of specific chemotherapies and focal mollusciciding in interrupting
transmission in a clearly defined and easily accessible geographic area.
3.19    Maternal and Child Health (MCH).  The DOH has now completed a major
redefinition of its HCH program, including risk factors and the
corresponding service interventions, in order to package the services for
women and children. A classification system would be established to
identify high-risk children and barangays in selected provinces through the
use of data on health and nutrition status. Areas and households
designated as high-risk would be targeted for follow-up services including
monthly growth and health monitoring activities by midwives, unlike the
standard of quarterly monitoring for non-high-risk areas. Based on the
outcomes of the monitoring, micro-nutrient supplementation of vitamin A and
iron for moderately and severely malnourished, anemic and xerophthalmic (at
risk of blindness) children would be provided. Iron supplies would also be
provided to anemic pregnant women. Support would be provided for the
employment of nutritionists to help map data to identify high-risk
barangays and for the training of DOH staff and community volunteers in
improved child care. Mothercraft classes would be given in high-risk
barangays to teach appropriate care for high-risk children.
3.20    Under the Strengthening the DOH's Institutional Capacities
component (para. 3.34), the project would support the employment of 2,000
additional rural health midwives to work in un- and underserved rural and



- 20 _
urban areas. Since midwives provide most of the maternal and child health
care available in poor rural and urban areas, and would have responsibility
for identifying the need for micro-nutrients, ARI treatment, ante- and
post-natal care for mothers and family planning services among the
residents of their area, an increase in the number of midwives would
increase accessibility to these services. Midwives would also play
critical roles in the delivery of comunity-based family planning services,
now that the DOH has overall responsibility for the provision of family
planning services from the Population Commission. Improved maternal care
services would thus help in reducing fertility.
3.21    The project would also support the phased adoption of a simplified
procedure for detection and management of ARI cases. Implementation of the
new procedures would take place over the life of the project, with
provinces and districts witn high infant mortality rates, high ARI child
mortality and high malnutrition rates given priority for initial
implementation. Following a national preparation conference in the first
year, the program would begin to operate in one district per selected
province in each of the 13 regions. By Year Two, the program would expand
to cover all municipalities of the first implementation province. During
Years Three and Four, the ARI program would cover all municipalities in two
provinces per region each year. By Year Five, the program would cover the
remaining areas except in large regions, where only half would be covered.
3.22    Midwives in the designated barangays and staff at r.earby RHUs would
be trained in a simplified protocol developed by WHO to detect and classify
ARI cases. Cases once identified would be classified as mild, moderate or
severe and treatment begun accordingly. For mild cases, only supportive
treatment with no antibiotic would be required. For moderate and severe
cases, antibiotics would be administered by the midwives, with hospital
referral where possible. Regional, provincial and district-level trainers
would be trained in Manila with WHO funds or in ARI training units in the
regions in preparation for the region-or province-wide training of
frontline service workers. Antibiotics, timepieces with alarms for use in
counting respiratory rates, and oxygen concentrators would be provided for
identification and treatment of cases. The project would also provide
technical assistance for the development of detailed ARI guidelines
focussing on case management at the BHS (para. 2.11), RHU and small
hospital level, and these manuals would be distributed to involved health
facilities. Funds for ARI-related staff travel would also be provided.
3.23    Given the synergistic relationship between infection and
malnutrition, project assistance would strengthen two major elements of the
child health program which now lack adequate support -- establishment of an
ARI program to combat the leading cause of death among children in the
Philippines and expansion of the existing small micro-nutrient program for
high-risk children.
3.24    Other MCH activities including immunization, oral rehydration,
family planning and other core MCH activities are expected to be assisted
by USAID direct budget support to the DOH's MCH program.



- 21 -
Institutional Strengthening of the DOH
3.25    To assist DOH to modernize its operational and management systems
and enhance its responsiveness to its priority programs and clients, the
project would strengthen the Department's capabilities at the various
administrative levels and in a number of specific functions. This would
include improving its regional and provincial health planning capacity and
field services as well as its overall cos=nication system, central
laboratory, capability to carry out information, education and
comunnications programs, training capacity, anc' project management,
coordination and evaluation capabilities. Thus strengthened, DOH will be
better equipped to carry out its priority impact programs as well as its
other activities.
3.26    Strengthening Information and Communication Systems.  To improve
the transfer of information within DOH and facilitate effective management
of operations, the project would support the establishment of a national
information communication and management network for DOH, comprising some
120 central, regional and provincial sites utilizing packet radio.
Packet radio combines 2-way radios and computers, allowing the error-free
exchange of printed data while permitting the computer and radio to be used
separately for other day-to-day activities. Where electricity and
telephones are inadequate, the DOH's packet radio-computer network would be
fueled by solar power. This low-cost network permits rapid, countrywide
aggregation and analysis of management information data. Existing
management and educational functions of the DOH requiring frequent and
timely communication of information at all levels of the DOH would be
supported by this on-line network. This support would include the
communication of field epidemiological surveillance data, HIS data, MIS
data and financial management information, including budget, procurement
and expenditure data. Chart 4 provides a diagram of the proposed
information and communications system and Chart 5 provides a diagram of the
proposed packet radio system.
3.27    A feasibility study on the use of packet radios to transmit digital
information from remote sites in the Philippines to the central office was
completed during project preparation. A second-stage feasibility study to
establish seven Beta sites (test sites forming part of a completed and
operational network) is now in progress. The project would support the
implementation of a nationwide network involving the establishment of
approximately 120 such sites. The project would also support the
acquisition of about 101 high frequency and 585 very high frequency radios
for use in communications from provincial health offices to municipal
health offices and RHUs. Equipment, materials, technical assistance and
fellowships in information systems maintenance would be provided along with
a vehicle for the central MIS unit.
3.28    The newly developed HIS is expected to simplify existing DOH
reporting systems for health statistical data and facilitate the production
of useful analyses for planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation. The
new system, developed with USAID and WHO support, is being installed and
assessec in four regions, and its expansion and computerization nationwide
would be assisted under the project. This assistance would include
consultants for the production of manuals and HIS forms, staff training an,d



- 22 -
a vehicle for the central HIS unit. The project would also support the
establishment of a central geographic information system for use in mapping
public health problems (malaria, for example) and micro-variations ir.
coanity risk or health status requirlng spatial reporting and trend
analysis.
3.29     The project would support development of a DON MIS to expand and
upgrade the current small separate systems being used in various parts of
the DOH. Routine informtion now being generated would be assessed for
computerization and appropriate software developed to facilitate and speed
up routine operations that affect management decisions. Technical
assistance to evaluate the computer-readiness of key DOH operations at the
central and field levels would be provided in the initial years of
implementation. Specific units targeted for assessment include the
financial subsystems, logistics, personnel management and management (with
special priority on impact programs) and community health services.
3.30    The project would strengthen the MIS through the acquisition of
about 300 microcomputers and the training of staff in computer operations.
These computers would be installed in the various DOH units and linked with
the MIS through the packet radio communications system. Technical
assistance would be provided (a) to undertake a national assessment of the
materials supply system, including the warehousing and distribution systems
at sub-national levels and needeu computerized inventory systems for
critical medical supplies and contraceptives and (b) to develop operating
manuals for these systems.
3.31    DOH accounting and budgeting systems would receive support through
technical assistance to develop financial operations manuals incorporating
government-wide systems, staff training in financial operations and in
computer skills. A system of health mapping and area classification would
be established, building on the existing activities of the malaria and
schistosomiasis programs. The project would provide materials, staff
training and technical assistance to get the mapping system underway. A
desktop publishing system would also be provided to facilitate the
production of DOH manuals and IEC materials. Chart 6 provides a diagram of
the proposed desktop publishing system and Chart 7 provides a diagram of
the proposed data file management design.
3.32    Strengthening Regional and Provincial Health Planning Capacity.
Under the DOH's decentralization, each province would be required to
develop a five-year strategic plan to target health services to priority
communities. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
a written directive from the Secretary of Health requiring this action from
each province would be issued by March 1, 1990 and that each province
would submit its plan to DOH by October 30, 1990. The project would
support the development of organizational and coordination skills for
health planning and programming, including development and implementation
of a six-stage learning module for provincial and regional health planners.
To implement the modules, a series of planning seminars would be held,
followed by on-the-job practice in applying the skills learned to actual
provincial and regional health needR. In addition to annual strategic
plans, by the end of Year Two of project implementation, all 12 regions
would have completed their five-year health development plans and budget



- 23 _
proposals which would in turn form the basis for the next national health
plan. The project would provide two microcomputers, technical assistance,
workshops for DOE, staff and operating costs to carry out these activities.
3.33    DOH Field Services.  Continuing budget shortages have left DOH's
peripheral health facilities with little usable medical equipment, supplies
or transport. To address this growing problem, DOH has decided to upgrade
RRUs, beginning with 300 located in high-risk comunities. Project support
for field services would therefore be provided at the RHU level. Utility
vehicles would be provided to each province (one vehicle per every three
districts) and to each of the 300 priority REUs. In addition, 15 delivery
vans would be provided to bring supplies from the regional center to the
provinces and districts. The project would finance technical assistance
for development of a program management manual for distribution to each RHU
and would provide each of the 300 priority RHUs with a small additional
yearly allocation for operational expenses.
3.34    The project would also assist DOH in increasing the number of
midwives currently employed to about 12,722, from the 10,722 now serving
42,000 barangays across the country. In many areas at present, the
anticipated number of midwives is inadequate at the same time that the
midwife workload has expanded rapidly. The project would support the
hiring of an additional 2,000 midwives, who would serve in high-risk rural
and urban communities. The closing of the puericulture centers in urban
areas and consequent release of several hundred midwives, added to an
existing surplus of trained midwives would permit the hiring of this number
of midwives during the project period.
3.35    Strengthening the DOH's Central Laboratory.  The DOH's central
laboratory lacks the equipment and trained staff necessary to offer
adequate diagnostic and management support to DOH field operations. The
project would upgrade laboratory facilities through the provision of
improved equipment for laboratory operations in various public health
disciplines. It would also provide technical assistance in laboratory
administration and 39 overseas fellowships for central laboratory
technicians to permit staff to acquire the skills needed to manage a modern
public health laboratory.
3.36    Strengthening Information, Education and Communication (IEC).  The
capacity of DOE to develop and distribute effective IEC messages to its
staff and clients is still being developed. Past DOH IEC efforts to
communicate health behaviour messages were supported primarily by external
funds, inevitably on a piecemeal basis, while locally funded programs have
rarely had an IEC budget. As a result, many short-lived, narrowly focused
programs were developed, with varying degrees of effectiveness. Although
there are a sufficient number of IEC staff in the Public Information and
Health Education Service, few have received training in IEC. As a result,
many of the achievements of past IEC campaigns have been lost.
3.37    The project would support the development of an integrated IEC
capability which would have as its goal the creation of integrated messages
aimed at bringing about health behavior changes in target groups. This
approach would replace past IEC efforts which focused on the materials



- 24 -
development, rather than the distribution, stage of a campaign and on the
production of many specific, rather than a few integrated, messages. As
part of project preparation, the DOH has prepared an overall IEC plan, and
the project would provide the equipmnt and staffing inputs to implement
the overall plan. The project would provide equipment, including a desktop
publishing system, an audiovisual production and editing set, and IEC kits
for each of the midwives. It would also provide IEC materials, in the form
of posters, brochures, flip charts, billboards, a newsletter for DOH field
staff and audiovisual supplies. The printing of smoe of these materials
would be done on the printing press provided under the Bank-assisted
Population II project. Technical assistance would be provided to help
develop the prototype materials, and five new staff members including an
editor, a layout artist, a desktop publishing technician and two feature
writers, would be employed for the project period and would report to the
chief of the Public Information and Health Education Service. The proposed
IEC activities are shown schematically in Charts 8 and 9.
3.38    Strengthening the DOH's Training Capacity.  The DOH has carried out
a substantial amount of staff training, much of which has experienced
difficulties similar to those of IEC campaigns. Until recently, training
courses were usually developed and presented by staff of a upecific health
program, and, as with IEC, with little regard for the needs of other
programs. This approach has led to problems of overlap among courses; for
example, in one year there were over 100 separate courses for DOH
physicians causing substantial numbers of key staff to spend large amounts
of time away from their workplaces.
3.39    The project would support a reorientation of DOH training from a
focus on particular programs to a focus on the needs of specific levels of
operation (such as that of the RHU) and those of specific categories of
staff (such as midwives). Financing would be provided for development of
basic, advanced and specialized courses for key DOH staff categories based
on the overall needs of their jobs. A master training plan which
incorporates both technical program and management procedure needs has been
developed by DOH's Training Task Force.
3.40    Initial financing would he provided for technical assistance to
carry out job content assessments of the key staff categories, and these
assessments would then become the basis for curriculum and training course
development. In some cases, courses would be developed for entire work
units, such as financial administration, in order that the unit might
better perform unit tasks. The project would provide basic training
equipment for each of the 15 regions, including overhead projectors, VCRs
with cameras and monitors, public address systems, and copier and
mimeograph machines. It would also support 100 months of local technical
assistance to help prepare the curriculum for the new training scheme. The
training courses themselves would be supported under the project throughout
the five years of implementation, and operating costs would be provided.
Chart 10 provides a diagram of the proposed DOH training.
3.41    Project Management and Coordination.  The project would provide
support for project management and coordination activities. Office
equipment and three microcomputers would be provided, as would two
passenger vans and one sedan. Management skills in project coordination



- 25 -
would be upgraded through the provision of technical assistance, and
contract staff would be hired for the life of the project, including a
project coordinator, a project monitor analyst, four project staff
assistants, a project accountant and a project secretary.
3.42    Zvaluation.  The project would support improvements in the DOH's
program evaluation capabilities. Technical assistance would be provided
for evaluation design and implementation of needed baseline surveys, miu.-
term assessment and end-of-project surveys. The baseline sample survey
would be carried out at the start of the project, the mid-term survey
midway through implementation and the end-of-project survey in the final
year of the project. In measuring impact, the evaluation of the
Strengthening the DOH's Impact Programs component would focus primarily on
morbidity and mortality indicators. The evaluation of the Strengthening
the DOH's Institutional Capacity component would focus on efficiency
indicators such as time and cost savings and process indicators such as
improved communication and coordination, as perceived by managers in both
the Hanila office and field offices. The Community Health Development
component evaluation would focus on equity indicators, such as the extent
to which health conditions in depressed and deprived communities were
raised relative to the average, and the qualitative factors which help
explain such effects.
Community Health Development
3.43    The promotion of community health deve'opment among selected
disadvantaged communities would be achieved through targeted efforts to
mobilize technical, social, economic and cultural resources in order to
raise community health awareness, stimulate at-risk households and
community members to take concrete steps to improve their own health
conditions and sensitize the health system to be more responsive and
creative in its delivery of basic health services. Specifically, the
project would: (a) develop organizational and coordination capabilities for
health planning and programming for disadvantaged communities among NGOs,
local government units and DOH field units operating at the provincial and
city level in 15 provinces/cities; (b) set up decentralized mechanisms for
programming and management of funds at the provincial level; (c) build
community organizational and technical capabilities for planning and
managing community health-related self-help projects; and (d) provide a
grant funds facility for community health projects. Chart 11 indicates the
organization of the component.
3.44    The project would support technical assistance to the DOH's
Community Health Service (CHS) in order to build up its technical and
managerial capability to plan, monitor and coordinate the community health
development process using the decentra-ized partnership approach.
Observation tours and visits to existing projects with successful community
health development experience would form part of the learning process for
CHS staff. These activities would be supplemented by project-sponsored
training to learn more about monitoring and coordinating community health
development.
3.45    A Committee for Community Health Policy would be established by the
DOH at the central level with CHS serving as its secretariat. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Committee would



- 26 -
be establlshod and fully staffed by January 1, 1990 according to criteria
developed during project preparation. The Committee would be responsible
for settLng general policies and guidelines for the community health
program and would also serve as the project review board to evaluate all
project proposals submitted for funding under this component of the
proposed project. Coeimittee members would include the DOH's Chief of Staff
as Chairman, the CHS Chief, the Chief of Management and Finance, a
Comission on Audit (COA) representative and representatives of regional
health offices and of provincial consortia involved in the component's
activitLes.
3.46    The regional health offices in the five involved regions would
serve as !he technical and administrative link between the CHS and the
provincial consortia. These offices would receive technical and training
assistance to develop their capability for planning, monitoring and
coordinating commiunity health development activities.
3.47    In the selected provinces, consortia composed of participating
partner agencies would be established, with the CHS and local consultants
administering the preparatory and organizational activities. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that participating NGOs
and other community-level organizations would be selected in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Orientation
sessions, staff development and planning activities would be arranged by
the CHS with assistance from local consultants. The outcome of these
activities would be the organization of the provincial consortium in each
of the 15 provinces/cities. Roles, functions and responsibilities of each
consortium member would be defined as part of this process. Training
courses, observation tours and fellowships would be provided to consortium
participants.
3.48    Technical assistance would be extended to provincial consortium
members by the CHS and others to facilitate preparation of the project
proposals. These proposals would be eligible for grant funding assistance
subject to the criteria and guidelines established by the Community Health
Policy Committee. Priority barangays for receipt of project support would
be identlfied by the provincial consortium, subject to the criteria set up
by the Committee and consistent with each provincial health plan. The
provincial consortium would meet regularly for purposes of planning and
decision-making. Support would be provided under the project for
monitoring visits to oversee development activities in targeted
communities.
3.49    A fund of US$9.1 million equivalent (including contingencies) for
community health development would be established, auG would be managed by
the CHS, subject to the criteria and guidelines of the Committee. The
project would provide funds for provincial planning grants and for project
implementation grants to be allocated through this facility. The grant
funds provided to these consortia would be used primarily for projects that
build up community- level capabilities for self-management and for
community-identified health and health-related projects with grant funds
divided about 25:75 between the two activities. About 252 of the grant
funds would be allocated for administering the capacity-building activities
at the community level. The balance of about 751 of the total would be
used to finance community health projects identified by the community



- 27 -
through participatory processes. Pertinent requirements of the Department
of Budget and Management and the Commission on Audit would be applied in
approval of projects by the DOH. MonitoEing of fund use and implementation
of proposed community health development activities would be done by the
CHS and corresponding regional health offices. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that a DOH directive would be issued by
January 1, 1990, establishing the fund and setting forth its operating
guidelines and procedures on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Policy Development
3.50    In order to strengthen the capacity of the DOH to identify and
analyze important health policy issues and facilitate consultation among
concerned groups, the project would support the establishment of an
improved mechanism for health policy development and would provide funds
for studies.
3.51    A National Council for Health Policy Development would be
established. Members of the Committee would include senior representatives
of the DOH, the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA), the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM), the COA, Congress, other
concerned agencies and the private sector. A technical secretariat would
be established to provide staff support to the Committee. The Committee
would identify priority issues requiring investigation, appoint ad hoc
commissions to carry out needed studies, and adviEe the DOH on future
policy directions. The project would provide technical assistance and
contract staff salaries for the secretariat and for the carrying out of
appropriate policy. It is expected that an early priority of the Committee
would be a review of the institutional, financial and structural needs of
both public and private hospitals in the Philippines, and the development
of an action plan to address problems in the hospital sector. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the National Council
for Health Policy Development with terms of reference agreed with the Bank
would be appointed by March 1, 1990.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1     The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$108.4 million
equivalent, net of duties and taxes. Foreign exchange costs account for
US$40.6 million, or 37? of project costs. Base costs are estimated at
US$93.9 million (872) and contingencies at US$14.5 million (13Z). There
are no physical contingencies in the project.  Annual price contingencies
are as follows: for foreign exchange expenditures, 5.31 in '990-91 and
4.12 thereafter; for local costs 92 in 1990-91 and 82 therea.ter. Project
costs by component appear in Table 4.1 below. (See Annex 9-11) for further
cost details.)
B. Financing
4.2          Of the total project costs of US$108.4 million, US$25.9
million equivalent would be financed by the Government and US$70.1 million
equivalent, representing 65? of total project cost net of duties and taxes,



- 28 -
by the proposed Bank loan. Grant cofinancing on a parallel basis would be
provided by the Government of Italy to support the tuberculosis program
(US$ 8.1 million equivalent). The Government of Japan would finance
technical assistance and training (US$4.3 million equivalent) from the
Japan Grant Facility.
Table 4.1 Proiect Costs
Estimated Costs La                         Local    Foreign    Total
(USS Million)
Strengthening DOH Impact Programs
Malaria Control Program                     9.2        10.6      19.8
Tuberculosis Control Program                7.6         7.3      14.9
Schistosomiasis Control Program             4.8         3.5       8.3
Maternal and Child Hea.th                    0.7        2.3       3.0
Subtotal                  22.3        23.7      46.0
Strengthening DOH Institutional Capacity
DOH Information Systems                    1.7         2.1       3.8
Regional/Provincial Health Planning        1.6          -        1.6
Field Services                             9.5         7.3      16.8
Central Laboratory                         0.6         1.7       2.3
Project Management                         0.7         0.1       0.8
Information Education & Communication      1.8         0.3       2.1
Training of DOH Staff                      6.7         0.1       6.8
Evaluation                                 1.3          -        1.3
Project Preparation/Start-up               1.7         1.2       2.9
Subtotal               25.6        12.8      38.4
Community Health Development
Community Health Development Fund           7.4          -        7.4
Community Health Systems Support            1.2         0.3       1.5
Subtotal                8.6         0.3       8.9
Policy Development   Subtotal                 0.6         -         0.6
Total Base Costs                 57.1       36.8       93.9
Price Contingencies                         10.7         3.8      14.5
Total Project Costs /a           67.8       40.6      108.4
/a Does not include duties, taxes or fees, estimated at US$2.6 million.



_ 29 -
C. Procurement
4.3      Procurement planning is at an advanced stage, with preparation
of most specifications and some bidding doc ients completed. No civil
work. are included. Drugs, pesticides, equipment and vehicles totalling
US$28.9 million would be procured by International Competitive Bidding
(ICI) subject to ptior review, and would be financed by IIBD. The
preference for local manufacturers described in Appendix 2 of the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines would apply to ICB. ICB vould be used for any
procurement with an expected contract of more than US$200,000. Limited
international bidding would be authorized for the purchase of DDT under
the Bank loan due to the limited number of suppliers, and would cost
about US$1.5 million. Limited international bidding transactions over
US$200,000 would also be subject to prior review. Although most of the
drugs and pesticides would be procured generically it may be necessary to
provide some drugs or pesticides which are proprietary; such requirements
would be reviewed by thc Bank on a case-by-case basis. Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) totalling about US$6.2 million would be used under the Bank
loan for drugs, equipment, materials, locally contracted training,
planning services and contract staff expected to have a value of less
than US$200,000. DOH procurement procedures and policies for LCB have
been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. All consultants financed
by the project would have qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, and would be employed in accordance with 'Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.,
4.4      Community health development grants totalling about US$9.1
million would be made by the Government. Local and/or international
shopping may be used for transactions not exceeding US$25,000 each up to
an aggregate total of US$1,500,000. This authority would apply tc the
DOH central procurement unit and also to recipients of Community Health
Development grants. The aggregate shopping expenditure record would be
maintained by the DOH's central procurement unit. Local or international
shopping would usually require three or more quotations, and acceptance
of the lowest quotation. Review by the Bank would be ex post on a
sampling basis.
4.5      Procurement under the Italian Grant would be tied.  Procurement
under the Japan Grant Facility would be done according to Bank
Guidelines.



- 30 _
Table 2 Procurement Arrangements
(USS Million)
Procurement Method
Tied
Italian
Project Element         ICB       LCB        Grant       Other      Total
Drugs and                13.8       0.7         6.9        1.5 La    22.9
Pesticides             (13.8)    (0.7)                   (1.5)      (16.0)
Equipment, Vehicles    15.1         5.5        1.0           -        21.6
and Materials          (15.1)    (5.5)                              (20.6)
Grants                               -           -         9.1         9.1
(9.1)      (9.1)
Training, Technical       -          -         0.2        16.1        16.3
Assistance and
Planning Seminars                                       (14.4)      (14.4)
Contract                             -           -        15.9        15.9
Staff                                                   (10.0)      (10.0)
Project Preparation/
Start-up              -          -           -            2.9         2.9
Staff Travel              -          _          _          5.4         5.4
Salary                    -          -          -         14.3        14.3
TOTALS                28.9       6.2         8.1        65.2       108.4
(28.9)    (6.2)                  (35.0)      (70.1)
Note: Figures in parentheses ar3 the respective amounts financed by
the Bank.
/a     DDT by limited international bidding.



- 31 -
D. Disbursement
4.6      The Bank loan of US$70.1 million would be disbursed over a
period of seven years on the following basis:
(a)  1002 of expenditures for imported drugs, pesticides,
equipment, vehicles and materials; 1002 of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for drugs, pesticides,
equipment, vehicles and materials manufactured locally;
ar.d ao0 of local expenditures for any other items
procured locally (off-the-shelf). Materials include
laboratory reagents and supplies; boots; manuals; charts
and teaching guides; computer software and supplies;
supplementary maintenance support for priority RHUs; and
IEC supplies;
(b)  1002 of expenditures for consultant's and other services
(including salaries of contractual staff) and training;
(c)  1002 of grants for services under the Community Health
Development component.
4.7      Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure
for the following: training; planning and project grants; and
contracts costing US$200,000 equivalent or less each for equipment,
vehicles, drugs, pesticides and materials. A Special Account in an
amount of US$4.0 million equivalent is proposed under the project.
The disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 12 and is derived from
the Philippines disbursement profile for all sectors.
4.8      In accordance with the agreement (dated June 3, 1987 and an
agreement to entered into) between the Bank and the Government of
Japan, the Bank would administer both the preparation and
implementation grants from the Japan Grant Facility. The Italian tied
grant would be made on a parallel basis and would be administered by
the Italian Government.
E. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
4.9      The DOH accounting system is adequate to provide information
on project finances and expenditures. The Government would cause DOH
to maintain separate accounts of project expenditures in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Proposals from NGOs under the
Community Health Development Component would include related audit and
record-keeping requirements. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that audited accounts and financial statements,
including a separate audit of statemerts of expenditure, would be sent
to the Bank within six months of the end of each Government financial
year. The Government also provided assurances that it would submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank, provide status reports for
visiting missions and prepare, within six months of the closing date,
a project completion report.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Prolect Preparation
5.1      The project was prepared by DOH with assistance from local
consultants financed under the Population I1 Project (Cr. 923-PH) and
by the Japan Grant Facility. Implementation manuals have been
prepared for each component of the project and would be reviewed
during negotiations. A detailed project procurement plan satisfactory
to the Bank has been completed, as have detailed implementation plans
for IZC, training and evaluation. The first stage of the packet radio
conunications activity (para. 3.26) was satisfactorily pilot-tested
in late 1988 by DOH with assistance from a United States NGO; this
testing was supported under the Japan Grant Facility. An
implementation schedule for project activities is provided in Annex
13. A project coordinator with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank has been selected. Draft arrangements would
be presented to the Bank after discussion with the concerned agencies
(DOH, DOF, DBH and COA) for: (aj conditions and procedures for
approval and distribution of grant funds within the project; and (b)
appropriate documentation of DOH expenditures to permit such
expenditures to be eligible for reimbursement under the Bank loan.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that these
arrangements would be finalized and implemented among the concerned
agencies. The status of these arrangements would be reviewed with the
Government on the initial project review mission.
B. Organization and Management
5.2      Overall responsibility for project management would be vested
in the Undersecretary of Hedlth and Chief of Staff, who would also
serve as Project Director. The project staff assistants would each be
responsible for one of the four project components. The
undersecretary would be assisted in this task by a full-time project
management staff (para.3.41). The project coordinator would be
responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the project and
would report directly to the Project Director. The project staff
assistants would each be responsible for one of the four project
components. During negotiations agreement was reached that a project
coordinating unit would be established in DOH and adequately staffed,
that the project coordinator would be formally appointed, and that
officers responsible for project implementation in each implementing
DOH division would be designated as a condition of effectiveness.
5.3      The Undersecretary for Public Health Services would be
responsible for implementation of the impact programs component. The
Undersecretary would be assisted in this responsibility by the Service
Chiefs of the units responsible for the impact programs and by the
full-time project assistant assigned to this component as a member of
the project management staff. The Malaria Service would manage the
MCP, with the provincial coordinator for the MCP responsible for
handling the spray operations. Malaria surveillance would be under
the control of the district MCP coordinator, who would rely on the RHU



- 33 -
network for active case detection and treatment. The Tuberculosis
Control activities would be implemented by the TCP, with case
identification and treatment the responsibility of the RHU nearest the
patient. The Schistosomiasis Service would be responsible for
managing the SCP, with its Field Operations Support Division at
headquarters handling field logistical support. Implementation of the
MCH program would be the responsibility of the MCH Service, with
direct client services being provided by rural health midwives and
RHlUs.
5.4      The responsibility for implementation of the Strengthening
the DOH's Institutional Capacity component would be that of the
Undersecretary for Management Services, who would mainly be assisted
by an Assistant Secretary and Service Chiefs of the pertinent units.
However, implementation of project activities for the Central
Laboratory would be the responsibility of the Undersecretary for
Standards and Regulation. The implementation of the Community Health
Development component would be the responsibility of the
Undersecretary for Health and Chief of Staff, supported by staff of
the Community Health Service. The Policy Development component would
also be the responsibility of the Undersecretary of Health and Chief
of Staff, supported by the project coordinator. Annex 13 gives the
implementation schedule and Annex 14 provides details on
implementation responsibilities.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.5      The Project Coordinator would be responsible for monitoring
project implementation. An annual program review would be conducted
as a means of assessing project implementation progress. Management
of the program review would be contracted out to consultants, who
would then be responsible for preparation of the annual review
workshop. The results of the annual program reviews would form the
basis for the annual work and financial planning of project
activities. During negotiations, agreement was reached that annual
reviews of the health programs and activities supported by the project
would be carried out by the DOH, not later than October of each year
of implementation.
5.6      The DOH would undertake three categories of evaluation
activities under the project. These include: (a) performance
evaluation; (b) process evaluation; and (c) impact evaluation. The
performance evaluation activity would focus on the annual measurement
of the DOH's program outputs with respect to physical accomplishments,
financial performance and client satisfaction. The performance
evaluation would include a longitudinal client-based analysis of the
DOH's performance as well as a quantitative analysis of program
indicators. Data for evaluation would be generated from the program
HIS and MIS monitoring systems, surveys and from ongoing beneficiary
analysis. This assessment would be undertaken to assess the overall



- 34 -
accomplishments of the project, identify problems and issues and
recommend measures to accelerate activities or redirect efforts to
facilitate goal achievement. Technical assistance would provided to
manage and direct the performance evaluation.
5.7      The process evaluation would examine the factors that went
into project implementation and seek to explain variations in levels
of performance despite comparable project inputs. A participant-
observer approach would be used for the evaluation, employing
technical assistance to carry it out. Process documentation would be
used for all components and would concentrate on the Community Health
Development component; it would entail the hiring of process observers
to record and assess the qualitative aspects of project implementation
The impact evaluation would focus on results obtained in terms of
morbidity/mortality reductions, improved efficiency of DOH systems and
achievements in equity of access to DOH services.
5.8      An additional element of the annual program review would be
an annual area-based evaluation, using the province as the basic unit.
The area-based evaluation would permit a closer look at project inputs
in a specific geographic area as would evaluation of the impact of the
additional resources going under the field services subcomponent to
priority RHUs. A stratified sample of provinces and RHUs would be
selected for purposes of evaluation. Stratification would be based on
the combination of component activities implemented in the particular
province or RHU. Annex 15 gives further details on evaluation
implementation and Annex 16 describes the Bank's proposed FY90 project
monitoring schedule.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1      A principal benefit of the project would be the reduction of
the prevalence of malaria, tuberculosis and schistosomiasis in areas
of the country identified as meeting high-risk criteria. The project
would also assist in the reduction of mortality among women and
children in high risk communities and would support the lowering of
fertility through improved maternal health services. The DOH's
capacity to identify and monitor high-risk households within
communities would be improved under the project, increasing both the
equity and efficiency of its use of resources. The project would also
help to enhance the DOH's planning, management, communication support
and evaluation capacities, which would lead to a more effective and
efficient delivery of services. Community resources would be
mobilized under the project through the partnership of local
governments and NGOs with the DOH, permitting communities to better
meet critical health needs in their own localities. Finally, the
project would lay the groundwork for future policy development.



L
- 35 _
B. Risks
6.2      The project faces the risk that comunities with high level.
of malaria, tuberculosis and schistosomiasis as well as maternal and
infant mortality, would be in areas of potential instability, and
efforts to reach these comunities might be affected by future
political developments. However, sufficient flexibility exists in the
selection of communities to be supported by the project to overcome
the risk that such developments might affect project scope, although
some deserving comunities might not receive support under these
circumstances. There is also a risk of slow implementation due to
delays in counterpart funding and to the general complexity of fund
flow procedures. These risks would be minimized through an annual
review of project performance and financial requirements by DOH and
the Bank, through the required agreement between DOH, DOF, and DBM
regarding the flow of project funding, and through the establishment
of a Project Coordination Unit and the designation of individuals
responsible for monitoring and problem solving in each of the
implementing units of the DOH.
C. Impact on Women
6.3        The proposed project would support the recruitment of a
substantial additional number of midwives, who provide the most
important source of women's health care in both rural and urban
settings. The major activities of midwives are those with the
greatest potential for reducing maternal mortality and morbidity,
including pre- and post-natal care for mothers and babies and safe
deliveries. The activities of the midwives would help to refocus
attention on the largely neglected maternal health services within the
MCH program. The project would also assist DOH in the restructuring
of maternal care and family planning programs away from their current
focus on delivery of a given set of services to one of reducing risks
to mothers and children based on community and household risk factors.
The efficient and effective delivery of these services is essential to
the reduction of maternal morbidity and mortality and to the provision
of high-quality health services to women. Other elements of the
proposed project would help improve the health of families, thus
reducing the burden to women of caring for the sick.
D. Environmental aspects
6.4      The proposed project would include the use of pesticides,
especially DDT, for malaria control. Vector control (i.e. a reduction
in the number of mosquitos) through the use of pesticides is still the
most cost- effective method of disease reduction. In addition, vector
control would be combined with chemotherapy, both to avert and to
treat the disease. With regard to environmental hazard, the manner in
which pesticides are used for the control of disease vectors differs
sharply from their use against agricultural pests. For vectors of
human disease, pesticides are frequently applied in or around human
dwellings, and hence must be demonstrably safe not only for the spray
personnel but also the inhabitants of the treated areas. Also, the
quantities used are generally much smaller than those used in
agriculture. As a result, while DDT adversely affects the



- 36 -
reproduction of same bird and fish species when used as an
agricultural pesticide, 4i,re is no significant environm.ental
contamination when used as an indoor residual spray for malaria
control nor any known adverse effects on the people whose homes are
sprayed. 1/   Therefore, DDT remains the pesticide of choice for
malaria control in areas where resistance has not been demonstrated.
VII.  AGREWENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEKDATION.
7.1      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) a written directive from the Secretary of Health would
be issued by March 1, 1990, to the provinces, requiring
the development of a five-year provincial health plan,
and each province would submit its plan to DOH by
October 30, 1990 (para. 3.32);
(b) the Committee for Community Health Policy would be
established and fully staffed by January 1, 1990,
according to criteria developed during project
preparation (para. 3.45);
(c)  participating NGOs and other community-level
organizations to receive grants from the community
health development fund would be selected in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.47);
(d)  a DOH directive would be issued by January 1, 1990,
establishing the community health development fund and
setting forth its operating guidelines and procedures on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.49);
(e)  a National Council for Health Policy Development with
terms of reference agreed with the Bank would be
established no later than March 1, 1990 (para. 3.51);
(f) audited accounts and financial statements of the
project, including a separate audit of statements of
expenditure, would be sent to the Bank within six months
of the end of the Government's financial year. The
Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to
the Bank, provide status reports for visiting missions
and prepare within six months of the closing date, a
project completion report (para. 4.8);
1/ For further information on this topic, see Guidelines for the Use,
Selection and Specifications of Pesticides in Public Health Programs,
filed with OPN 11.1, September 29, 1987.



- 37-
(g) the arrangements for approval and distribution of grant
funds within the project and the appropriate
documentation of DOH expenditures to be eligible for
reimbursement under the loan 3juld be finalized and
implemented among the concerned agencies (para 5.1); and
(h) an annual review of the health programs and activities
supported by the project would be carried out by the DOH
not later than October of each year of implementation
(para. 5.5).
7.2      A special condition of effectiven4se of the proposed loan
would be the establishment in DOH and adequate staffing of a project
coordinating unit, the appointment of the project coordinator, and the
designation of officials responsible for project implementation in
each implementing DOH division (para. 5.2).
7.3      With the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70.1 million
equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines, with a term of 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable
rate.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
HEALTH DEVC_MW   OJtCT
PHIL LPPIE
COMPMATIVE SOCIW-ECOMIC DIDICATRS
LOW
INDICATORS                       PHILIPPINES  MALAYSIA  KOREA  INDONESIA  THAILAND  MIDDLE
INCOME
TOTAL POPULATION (MILLIONS) (1966)          57           16      41        166        63        691
URBAN POPULATION (MILLIONS)                 s9           38      64         25        16         36
CBR (PER 1,000 POPULATION)                  3C           29      20         28        2S         36
CDR (PER 1,000 POPULATION)                   7           6        6         11         7         10
ANNUAL POPULATION GROWTH X                 2.3          1.9     1.2         1.8      1.6        2.3
(1966 - o000)
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE                       4.6         3.6      2.2         3.6      3.0        4.7
EXPECTATION OF LIFE AT BIRTH                63           69      69          67       64         69
(1986)
POPULATION/PHYSICIAN (1981)               S8S0         3910    1390        12300     6870      7880
POPULATION/NURSE (1981)                   2640         1390     350         2300     2140      1760
DAILY PER CAPITA (1965)                   2260         2601    2806       2476       2399      2611
(CALORIES SUPPLY)
PER CAPITA INCOME (ONP) (1986)             560         1830    2370         490       810       760
AVERAGE GROWTH CDP (X)                    -1.0          4.8     8.2         3.4       4.8       1.8
(1960-1966)
HEALTH EXPENDITURE (1) (1986)               6           -       1.6         1.9       6.7       4.0
(1980-1966)
MID-1966 UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED
SOURCE: WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPOR-, 1988



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
HEALTM DEVILOPHENT PROJECT
Total Population Size, Crude Birth and Death Rates and
Total Fertility Rates for Selected Years
Year       Population          CBR          CDR          TFR
1930                                        23.5
1935                                        23.3
1940                                        31.9
1945       19,234,982                       21.8
1950                                        17.9
1955                           53.0         14.5
1960       27,087,685          46.0         13.7          6.9
1965                           44.0         12.6          6.3
1970       36,684,486          39.3         11.8          5.7
1975       42,070,660          34.8          8.7          5.2
1980       48,098,460          35.0          8.8          5.0
1985       54,668,332          33.0          8.0          4.5
Sources: Censuses; NEDA, Projections of Philippine Population
1980-2030 UPPI, University of the Philippines Population
Institute, Various Publications and Surveys.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trends in Infant, Child and Maternal Mortality
and Life Expectancy, 1930-85
Expectation                 Child
Year           IMR               of Life at         HMM      death
Birth                     rate
1930        165.0
1935        153.4         1938->        40.0
1940        135.8
1945          /a          1948->    42.4-45
1950        101.6
1955         84.3
1960         73.1                  62.8-53.3
1965         68.5         1968->        58.7     2.0       11.0
1970         60.0                  57.6-59.6     1.9
1975         53.3                       59.3     1.4
1980         45.1                       61.1     1.1
1984         39.4                                0.8
1985         48.0/b                     63.1     0.8        4.0
/a  No data.
/b Derived from the World Development Report, 1987.
Source: Zablan, Zelda C. (1987) 'Maternal and Infant/Child Health,
Nutrition and Mortality: Levels, Trends and Determinants:
University of the Philippines Population Institute, Quezon
City.



* 41 -
ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Number of Midwives by Region, 1973, 1986 and 1987
Region               1973            1986            1987
I                 637           1,030           1,013
II                 300             695             548
III                 991           1,071             778
IV               1,903           1,107           1,368
NCR                   -             644             607
V                 364             756             820
VI                 754           1,053             926
VII                 541             897             926
VIII                 308             752             737
IX                 237             580             596
X                 419             766             652
XI                 308             633             662
XII                 285             706             644
Philippines          7,047          10,690          10,278
Source: Department of Health; Planning Services.
Notes:   The 1973 figures are understated since the Health Manpower
Survey for that year failed to obtain reports from a few
provinces.



PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trends in Leding Cause  of Morbiditt
Year                                   Percent Cha--
1976  1979  1ow   1:i       mvl
Caue.                    ICD No.  1973  1979  1960  1961  1962  1983   1984   1979  1960  19N1  11   1to    1934
1.0 Bronchitis                490-49N  455.6 471.3 427.3 507.0 652.2 577.6  1,039.6   8.8  -9.3  18.7   6.9   4.8  70.9
2.0  Influenza                470-474  468.7  400.0 419.9 446.6 446.6 447.9   783.3 -16.9   8.4   6.1   0.0   0.S 74.9
8.0 Diarrhea                  006-009  462.6 466.2 413.0 462.7  186.6  443.6   962.6   0.6  -11.4  16.6   -.6   1.6 106.9
4.0  Pneaonias                40-4U6  248.6  272.2  242.7  246.6  106.3 287.5   337.6   9.4  -10.3   2.4  -56.4  119.8 42.1
5.0  Tuberculosis, all form    010-019  260.5  283.6  232.4  235.8 206.2  179.2   2".0  -10.8  -0.C   1.5  -12.6  -18.1  49.6
6.0  Malaria                  065        77.7  68.2  82.1  89.1  68.9  66.0   207.4  -12.2  20.4   6.5 --22.7  27.7 185.7
7.0  Mallignnt Neoplamm       140-209   48.6  43.4  39.6  50.0   -    49.7    30.6  -0.8  37.6  -16.4   -           -    -
8.0  Dyentry, all form        004-006   60.7  60.7  56.7  54.4  66.7    -          -      0.0  -6.6  -4.0  22.6    -    -
9.0 measles                   065       81.2  62.8  56.4  54.6  67.8  71.7   126.6   2.6  -11.6  -1.4  28.8   6.5  76.4
10.0 Whooping Cough            0ii       31.6   -    41.1  38.7  31.3  27.4         -      -     -    -0.1  -19.1  -12.5
11.0  Infectious Hepatitis     070        -    19.0   -       -    16.6  17.6    26.3   -        -      -      -     6.7  00.9
12.0 Accidents                 600-999;   -      -     -      -      -     -      156.6    -     -      -      -     -    -
E800-949
Source: Philippine Health Statistics, 1978-84. Health Intelligence Service, DOH.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
PhILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trends in Malnutrition, by Region and Tarasted Areas, 1970-85
Area                                  1976 /a      1979 /a
Philippines                          30.6          32.6
National Capital Region               30.4         31.2
Region I - Ilocos                    31.0          30.8
Region II - Cagayan                  29.3          28.7
Region III - Central Luzon           32.3          42.5
Region IV - Southern Tagalog          29.3         28.8
Region V - Bicol                     30.6          40.0
Region VI - Western Visayas          39.0          34.8
Region VII - Central Visayas         27.0          28.0
Region VIII - Eastern Visayas        36.6          39.7
Region IX - Western Mindanao         28.9          30.2
Region X - Northern Mindanao         28.2          25.8
°egion XI - Southern Mindanao        24.9          26.1
Region XII - Central Mindanao        27.7          23.2
/a Includes 2nd and 3rd degree cases only.
Source: Diamson, B. and F.S. Villamejor "Philippine Malnutrition
Update' in Iglesias et al. (eds)., Severe Malnutrition of
Filipino Pre-School Children, UPCPA (Manila).



- 44 -
hEL H KW IPT UOJC
Prolectiesl   for sadetary Al lecati  for tho Sector. 1l96-U
V.ersona)
Actusl
annual                                                       Annual
average  Eatimat              Projoctilons                   average
1970-6     i9s    1967   193   199  1990   191   1991   1987-92
Econoeic Services                35.9      17.3  19.9  21.6   23.9  26.8  29.4   30.     25.1
Agriculture                              TI    TI 9             7     7 4           T 2  9    171 
Industry, Trade A Tourim       3.1        0.7    1.4    1.9    2.4    2.8    8.0    3.8       2.6
Utilitie  A Infrostructur-    28.5       13.4   14.8  14.0   15.0   16.1  17.2   17.9        15. 
Social Sorvices                  20.2      16.3   21.6   24.6  23.4   31.4   36.7   39.2       30. 
Education                      12.3      10.2  11.5   18.2   14.1   14.9   17.1   16.7       16.0
HeIth                          3.9        8.0    3.4    4.2    6.9    6.6    8.2    9.6       6.8
Social Security A Welfare       2.1       4.7    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.8    6.4    6.4.      6.2
Housing & Comm Dov              1.9       0.4    0.4    0.9    2.2    8.6    4.0    4.5       2.7
Defense                          14.0       6.9    7.4    7.3    8.0    8.4    3.6    8.9       6.1
3eneral Public Servicos          20.0      10.0   11.3  14.7   15.7  13.7  12.3    9.6         12.9
Debt Service Fund and
Net Lending La                 11.9      47.6  40.0  30.8  26.0  20.2  16.1   12.0           23.9
Total                      100.0      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0
/   ror 1987 onwards, this item includes a portion of the external liabilities of Government
financial institutions to be assumd by tUs National Government, but excludes debt sorvico on
liabilities of the Philippine Nuclear Power Plant.
Source of Basic Data: NB and NEDA.



- 45 -
eslth Teruste as Outlned in MTlidr Devi_s^ms  Plan. 1992
"lad lar                                Eotl_es                  Ter"              Annual
2"0  XW7  19"    TI9|9-M 190            lffl averaee
1. Health
Life *xpectancy (years)              63.4  68.?  64.0    64.8  64.6  64.9  65.2    6.8
Crude birth rat. (per 1,000 pop)    81.7  81.8  80.3    80.8  29.8  29.2  26.6    80.0
Crude death rate (per 1,000 pop)      7.8   7.6   7.5      7.4   7.2   7.1   7.0      7.8
Infant (below I yr) mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)            55.6  54.2  52.9    51.6  50.8  49.0  47.8    51.0
Child (1-4 yr) mortality rate
(per 1,000 pop)                     4.9   4.7   4.7     4.8   4.1   8.9   8.7       4.2
Maternal mortality rate               0.9   0.9   0.6      0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7      0.6
2. Nutrition
Percentage of pro-schoolorc with
wt loss than 75X of standard
wt-for-age                         21.7  20.8  18.3    17.4  16.0  14.5  13.0   16.7
Percentage of schoolchildren
aged 7-10 yr3 with wt less than
90X of standard wt-for-age         18.0  12.7  12.3    11.6  11.3  10.8  10.8    11.5
Percentage of schoolchildren
aged 7-10 yrs with wt lose than
765  of standard *t-for-age        14.1  18.2  12.2    11.2  10.3   9.4   8.4    10.8



PIMIPPINES
IlUtllt DEVLOPOlElT PROJECT
S41650  ACCDUSES COST SUi653
(p1s0s I006                                  WS$5 IUS 0 "C leSol
----------------------------------------  --------------I----------- ----------  % fro.ig    4
local         Eor             lotal           tocal       foreign       lola)       lachang.    Ceas
I  lIv(S;Ht(Ul wCs3
a  mUCs ASN  PESIICIUS
6 056 -VMS                                                     2565815          5 256.5l.758            -  12,218. 170   12.215. 110         600 
Z. PESI)CIIDS                                               -  167, 5u4, 000    6T, S. .00               -   7 950. IS0    t,9se. 960o       60          9
Sd-1otal ODRUS asO PESIICtDES                                   -  424. 655.157    424. 669.257             -  20. 695. 361   20. 19S. 361       toe 2o
tt f4UOR*ElIt                                         52. 179.81    IL 2a9.t22     130.44S.S42    2.484.753   3. 727. 630    5.211.,U3            60        t
C. vINICICS                                                     -  634. 736. 0O    694.736.000              -   9.273. 143    S.2u3. 143         600        0
0. $M1lEISIS
l 01NER 3ATE6IAtS                                 30. 246. 63)   20. 150, 794   50. 401. US     1. 440, 054    960. 03     2. 400. 0o         40         J
2. IEC VAlalts                                    28.323. 539    3.147.071       31.470.710    6.145.74s       149."56      .49. 609           10        2
SU-1o0al   ItRIAtS                                    54. 5U4.770   23,307.825       1.572.SSIS    2. 7U 7.7     IO. H09.59   3.U9599             ,i        4
1. COSM NAI*IN OtVit GRAMlS
6. PtAlIICG GR3tN6S                                S.400.000              -      S.400.0o0        2U7. 643           -       257. 143          -         o
2. PIOJCI GRlS                                     0. o00.000              -    690. 000. goo    7. 142.87            -    7, 142.57            - 
_ - -- - -  -   - - -- - --   - - --- - --   -- - - --   - --     --  - - - -  -  -- - -t--      -
Sb-6ota%  C0114 H(tIll  VE6    G5IS                   5 Ue 9 .00.00           -    155 400. O0     7.400.00O             -    7.40e0.00            -        S
L- TRAlINING
6. FOrkIUG  ItILONSHIP                                      -   11,469.400       I1.469.400             -      545.162       5451.2 15ot                 I
2. LOCAt  TRAINING                                144. s4u. 00o            -    144. S48. 000    h .U3. 23            -    B. U3. 23            -        I
Sub-total TRAINING                                   144.940.000   61.459.400       69.067. 400    5.853.231      546.1 62    7.423.400            T        I
S. ItCNIC*t1 SssisIAUcf
1. 1o01c1t                                                  -   15.654.000       t654.000               -      749,0600      74.000 t         ooe        1
2  tOCAt                                           7S6.  ee.9 0o           -     76. s5. Ot    3. 4s. 52              -    3. 49.952            -        a
SAb-lotal IECNM(CAt 5SSIS1Au6CE                      716.sS.000   19.14. 000       92. 20. 000    3. 1545.992    74s. 00     4. 390.n92          67        s
66 COEIRtACI SlIf1                                   334,003.400              -    334.003. 400   19. 204.924            -   Is.9104.24            -        n1
L  PtAIMIIG SENIlUSAS                                 30. Iso.0o0            -      30.750.000    1.464,2                -    1.454. 28           -         2
a. P30EC1   P5rf993llt   J PREI6,PIEN1IN)h1)OII       36.540.000   24.360.000       a.300.s000    1.740.000    . o660.000    2.900.000            40        9
lotal IIWESINIUC COSTS                                  555.0S.5987  771.95s.521 6I.60.504.969   42.311.952  3G.7M.562   79. Of.U4                   40        U
Is. REtUREnl COStS
A- STA41  tRAEi                                      817.720.385             -     87. 720. 359    4. 1711 161          -    4, 6??. .65          -        4
S. s581*15s                                        222.m 66. S               -    222ss66. SW s   0.o95.405                 1L s    40                    tt
total 4ECUlHEPI  cosrs                      -310.256.US                          -    310.255.U5S   14.79S,566              -   14. 75. S             -        Is
lota) BASEIIK  COSIS                                   6.195.537. 872  771. 953, 525   1 .90.791.400   97. 067.515  335.793.632    3.U44.218          39       In
Price Cntnimnqcies                                    225.477,734   71.478. 123    304.955.917   10o737.035   3.71, t    1    14. 521,710          25       Is
lToal PROlECT CO05S                                    1,424.319.66      4 C st431.51 2.275.74U.36I   62. 524. 556  40.544. 364  l0t 358 920         31       6I S
:=:::==::=:  :::::=5::::: ::::=:=:::  :2:::=::::= :2::::0::=$ :S22=l5-J=:   =-3 S28*2   *23:-                                                 t
hay 2., 1959 6005



PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENt PROJEC1
Project Caqponents by Yer
IPESOS '0001
4ss Costs                                         reU
2            3            4                          P ffStlS SIISW '
A  SIRENGICNENINC go  ImIpCt PR40R6tS
I 11IURJA COllROI PROCRttI tII                           107.307.250  102.374.840   82.961.3ss   70,677.519   S2.708.600      416.031.S57   19.11.0l1
2  lU8ERCUtOSIS CONTROL PttOCUU  I 2 1                    63.438.000   75.420.000   71.370.000   59.060.000   42.900.000      312.0MSW    34. 133
3. SCHISTOSOKIASIS CONTROL P00R0K I 3 1                   36.007.300   40. 109.250   35.496.300   37.372.550   29.549.500      173.534.,90    B. 2U.ff7
4   AlUEIMAI  AND CHILD HIEALTI  1 4 1                     4.590.453    8. 87. 143   12. 777. 981   16. 623.375   21.s58.359   64. 737. 311    3. M. M
Sub-Total SIRENGIHENINtC O0  IMPACT PROGRAMS                211.343.003  226.791.233  202.607,639  178.733.444  146.916.549       966.391.0    46I01D,0N
S. SREEtNGIHENING  ONS ItSIITUIIONAL CAPACIIY
I DON INFORNIATION SYSTEMS I 5 I                          32.844.68    12.I807.200   13. 98. 500   12. 679. 500    7.585.000   M0. 164. M    3.6SUL326
2. REGIONALI - PROVINCIAL HEALIH PLANNING 3I 6 \          16.367.000   15.470.000       500.060      500.000      500.000      33.331.0N      1.S. 418
3  fiftD SfRVICES 1 7 1                                  166.430.000   27.900.000   40.800.000   50.sso5. 000   6.800.000     352.480.0W   Is. lot.M
4  CtNTRAt 18 I 8 3                                      14. 211. 180  20.786, Iso   12.301.512    9s7.600             -      48. 25M.442    2207.06
5  PROJECI NANACENENT I 9 I                                7. S33. 400    2.13.400    2. 183.400    2. 183. 400    2.183.400   It. 2M.0       114.619
6. INFO EOUCAIION COHN  I 10 1                            11.325.270    7.978.940    7,805.625    7.697.330    7.852.055       42. 65m        2.031ni
7  IRAINING Of DON SAlIl I 11 I                           47.755.7so   35.375.750   28.204.500   19. 317.000   13.002.000      143.,H5.00    6. M.114
S. EVALUAFION 1 12 1                                       8.482.000    3. 182.000    4.082.000    2.732,000    S.782.000      27.280.0W      1. 2184M
9. PROJ PREP / PREIlPLEN I 13 1                           30.450.000   30.450.000             -            -            -      60.0N0.0       2. SW.I
Sub-IotsI SIRENGINENING DOOHS INSTIIUIIONaL CAPACIIT        335.399.285  156. 133.440  109.845.537   96.616.830  10. 004.455       04.3M.547   34.133.312                               .
C. COlISINITY HEAtlH OEVELOPHENI                                                                                                                                                       *t
1. COIMUNITiY HEW4tl  DEWEtOPMEtI FUND I 14 1             31,080.000   31.080,000   93.240.000             -            -     15S.440.0"     1.40.0S"
2. COINWUITY HEAtlH SYSIENS SUPPORI IIS I                  4.562.355    4.037.355    9.832.925    6.512.425    6.454.925       31.30M5    1.4".231
Sub-lotal COIlttITY NEA4tIH DEVEtOPMENT                     35.642.355   35. 117.355  103.072.925    6.512.425    S.454.925      1". M. in      B.0M. 231
D. POliCY OEVEtOPIEHI
1. HtAITH POtlCy Of(ELtoPnix  I 16 I                       2.920.000    2.920.000    2.420.000    2.420.000    1.920.0oe       12. 900.a        M .0W
Sub-Total POtlICY DEVELOPIIENT                                2.920.000    2.920.000    2.420.000    2. 420.oo    1. 120.000       12."D.0          00  .0"
lotal BASELINE COSTS                                         55.304.643  420.962.025  417.946.101  284.n22.699  262.295.929   l. 9o0.lI.400   98.541.210
Prici Contingencies                                         30.968. 661   43.977.578   80.738.228   65.170.522   84.100.128     304.35S.917   14.521.1l0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           616.273.304  464.939. 606  498.684.329  349.453.221  346.395.657   2.215.14?.37.3?7  306.3s6.
foroign Exciange                                           370.474.285  146.652. U6  131.175.229  112. 903. 161   0. 228.091    51.431.,51   46.144.38
may 22, 1989 10: 06
10



I PIIIPPIUECS
HEALtN KEVELt    NIJ PIOJICT
Summry iccounis by T"e
Totals InEluding Conti gmci.s                             Totals lncldi  CMiagtles;
(PSOSn It   ii                                            loss pii  llIga
1        2         3        4                  f lotol       I       2        3        4       5      Tg4bl
.t.lssn"ss tsss=hz  =.tasthhssa.   u s.s.... ..    .. ......r*t. ..   =     ...... -.-- -. ....... .......E.. - - ---.-
I  I.NmSuTw t COSTS
*.        MD165  HS P(STICIKS
1. 8116s                                        St.6US   61.0OU    65.300   61.1531  S13.3        23.0 n3    2. 461   2.30i    3.110   2.930   2.SU    13.9f7
2. PESTICIKES                                   49. S35   43.932   3S. 963   35. 137   24 017    Ii  Se4    2. 359   2. 092   1.713   1.673   t, 144    il6
Sub-Total MCS iMD PESTICIDES                       101.,20  f1,.000  101.263   U6. SU    77.527    481.6?7    4.620   S.000    4,622   4.603  3S.2   222 U?
B. LIU1PIEiT                                        It. 37 3    ".6G1   24. 053   13. 900    6.467    147. 414    3.400   t.410   1. 145     U2       4023   1.N6
C. VEHICIES                                        IN.864    1.03    3. 3U          -         -    203.255    '.471        SO      IU        -        -    9. S7
D. MiEUIILS
1. OltEi iATERIILS                               9.6SE    11.365   12.41S   13.079   16.109        62. 664      462     541      Sol     623      *6E    2.94
2. IEC MATERIALS                                 6.820    7. 3U      S.06    A. 644        39.     40. 231      322      351    324       412     448    1,91S
Sub-fotal NA4EItlS                                  IE.516   15.746   20. 471   21.723   25. 506    102. 63        76       633     975   1,034   1.215    4. 83
E. COllt HtEAtlH BEKEt  RAINTS
1. P1LMI8Il  68i11S                              1. 179    1.261    4, 64          -        -       6.646        56      61    1I"          -       -       311
2. PnOCI GiANFS                                 32.761   315.70   116.210          -         -    184.lU,     1.60   1.700     5.34        -        -    V794
Sui-Tetal CONM HEAtlH lDEYEt GCIRtS                 33.140   36,. 3    120. 394       -         -    191. 329    1.616   1.762   5.733         -        -     .111                                         1
f. IUAINIHG
1. FORlIGNt FEIttOiSHIP                          3,339    2,174   63 iI    1. i82    1. se         12. 87       ISS      123     175       iN     7*        614                                       co
2. tOCAL IMINING                                33.543   42,17   40. 45   33. 381   21. S12    181.904    1. U3   2.044   1. 31 I1. S           1. 215    8.3 o                                        I
Sofb-lotal ISIHING                                 42. 8U8   41.492   44,226   31. 183   27. 012    154.801    2.042   2. 166   2. 10S   1.671S   1,28 C      .216
G. IECHICAI ASSISIANCE
1. FOREICt                                       8.391    3.658    3.8" f      . 1IDS       -      16. 32      400      174      182      53        -       iUS
2. LOCAL                                        34. 99    14,317   12. 752    3.430   20.400       91.897    1. 67      682      607      443     373    4.321
Sob-lotal TECiUICAi ASSISTIMCE                     43. 39   17.974  I1. S1U   10.534   20,400    1U E7S    2. ON            n56     790      502     S71    S. Itf
H. ClRUACT STAlF                                   28. 30   96.U45   82. 182   69 322   S7, 004    334.003    1.350   4.607   3.932   J.301   2.714   1t. "S
1  PLANHIHO SEIIIIARS                              16. SI1   17.533       367       418      412      35.302      U7       831       Is       20      22    1.tU
4. PiJECT P1(PAIATION / PREINPLEitNTATION          30.450   30.4s0          -         -         -     60.300    1.450   1.450          -       -        -    2.300
Total IitESTENit COSTS                               S63.SS1  399. 58   413. 264  247 746  216,371  t, C60,523   27. TU  1t, 026  13. 679  11.7S8  10. 303    N. "
II. ECIONT COSIS
A. STAFF TRAVEL                                   12.543   25.459   25.679   25.43?   251 179    114.297         517   1.212   1,223   1.211   1. In        S.443
B. SAEi4IES                                       20. 160   3. 692   59,741   76.268  104,646    300.927          96l   1.00   2.i45   3.632   4. 92   14.,10
Total iECUIRElT COSTS                                 32.723  6H,3S1   6,420  101.705  130,026    41S,224    1. 55    3. 1i2   4.00    4.43   IL I"2   19.773
:zz====T : -zzz-= _-==== z%z:zzzz.===.zz          -=_Es5  =.5f ..  ....... .... . ... X..t :-ts8 .
IotaU  PROJECT COSTS                                  616. 273  464. 40  4936.64  349. 43  346. 33?  2. 275 747   23. 346  22. 140  23 747  16.641  OIL 49   too,30
Nay 22, 1983  10: 06



- 49 -
ANNEX 12
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year       Disbur,se_nt        I Cumalative   Z Disburament
and Semester    Semester  Cumulative        amount         Profile for
(US$ million)         Disbursed       Philippines
(Z)         Projects (2)
FY90
Jul-Dec.89           4.0 L        4.0             5                3
Jan-jun.90           1.0          5.0             6                4
FY91
Jul-Dec.90           3.5          8.5            11                9
Jan-Jun.91           3.5         12.0            16               16
FY92
Jul-Dec.91           4.7        16.7             24               24
Jan-Jun.92           4.7        21.4             30               32
FY93
Jul-Dec.92           8.6        30.0             43               40
Jan-Jun.93           7.6        37.6             53               48
FY94
Jul-Dec.93           6.2        43.8             62               56
Jan-Jun.94           6.2        50.0             71               63
FY95
Jul-Dec.94           6.0        56.0             80               71
Jan-Jun.95           6.0        62.0             88               78
FY96
Jul-Dec.95           4.5       66.5              95               86
Jan-Jun.96           3.6       70.1             100               94
FY97
Jul-Dec.96                                                       100
L UD$4.0 million Special Account
Note: Closing Date: December 31, 1996.



- 50 -
ANEX 18
Fe 1 of 7
_Imelmetstl. Schdle
Aetivity                                    Y °er 0 Your lVYear 2lY*ar $iYoer 4JYoar 61
Malaria
1. Procur_met of Druo & Pesticides
Multi-yeor contract                                 x
Procuremnt of Stero.scop.s
and Spray Cans                                      x
Procure_ent of Vehicles, Pick-ups,
Pump boats A Hulls                                  x
2. T O R of Resreh Studie  (O R)                x
T 0 R of Consultants (O R)                   x
T O R of Trainor  (O R)                      x
3. Recruitment of OR Consul-aSnt*/Trxinor-               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4. Bid and Award 0 R Studies,
Multi-year contract                                 x
S. Malaria Toaching Aid (copies)                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6. Recruitment A Hiring of Staff                         x
7. C F - Treatment, Spraying, etc.                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Schixto
1. Procurement of Drugs A Pesticides
Multi-year contract                                x
Procurement of Lab Supplies A boots
Multi-yeor contract                                x
2. Procurement of Binocular Microscopes                 x
Procuremen; of Micros PC-AT                          x
Procurement of Overhead Projectors                   x
Procurement of Paper Copiors                         x
Procurement of Bush Cutters                          x
Procurement of Vehicles                              x
3. T 0 R for Snail Control Studios,
Morbidity Study                                    x
T 0 R for Proj et Monitoring A
Evaluation Systm                                   x
4. Recruitmnt of Consultants-Project Benefit
Monitoring A Evaluation System                     x
Snail Control Studies, Morbidity Study                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
S. Schisto Conference design                            x
6. Staff Screening A Recruitment                         x
7. Case Finding Treatment, Snail control etc.            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Tuberculosis
2. Procurement of Drugs (SCC)
Multi-year contraect                                x



- 51 -
AEX 15
Pag 2 of 7
A"tI vIty                                 Year Olyear IlYear 2ttYoor Slear 41Yeor 51
I. Preur           of stusteear Miloeeps _
Precurmst of stieslaer Miero.e.p.s
Spr  parts 
Pr  eureset of Utility Vehicles 
5. Selection of Priority Cities for TB
Prgt rm Expension                                x
4. Recrultment of Loeal and Foreign Exports            x
(Local-Multi year eontract by)                   x
S. Seloction of Training Follows                       xxxxxxxx
S. Identification of Fellowship Training
Couroe/Program                            x
7. Selection/R.cruitment of Med Techu
and Sputum Canvassers                             x
8. Trainitn  of Med Tech and Sputum Canvassers         x
Distri'bution of Microscopes                      x
9. Drug Dlstrlbution System Studies             xxxxxxxx
(Component 2)
10.TB Strategic Program Review                 xxxxxxxx
(Evaluation)
CCS
1. Procurement of Drugs - Multi-year                   x
contract
Procurement of Micronutrionts -
Multi-yoer contract                               x
Procurement of Oxygen concentrators
Multi-yoar contract                               x
2. Identification of Priority District.
for A R I                                         x
Phasing of A R I Implementation                     x
S. Development of A R I Manuals                        x
Development of Vitamin A and Iron
Teaching Guides                                   x
4. Reproduction and Printing of Manuals                x
S. Production and Reproduction of Growth
Charts-Multl-year contract                        x
6. Recruitment/Hiring of Nutritionists                 x
7. Risk Classification of Barangays
and Households                                    x



- 52 -
ANE  13
Pg9e * of 7
Aetiviy                                   Ye r OY oer IVYer 2 Year SlY  r 41Yer ar
S. Midwive special Course
(A U I) - Traintlg                                        a
9. A R I - 1 distelet, I provinc  per region          x
A F I - all dietric6w in pilot provinces           x
A R I - additional 2 provinces per region                         xxxxxxxx
A R I - all regton except large reglon. 1/2)                                     x
Info-Cm
1. T 0 R of Local and Foreign Consultants             xxxxxxx
2. Recrultmnt/Hiring of Consultants
Communications, Foreign                           x
b  Computer Meintenance                            x
c. Radio Transmission Maintenance                  x
d. MIS Master Planner                              x
.  Progrm Budget Systm                             x
Materials Mng   nt A Inventory System         x
g. Personnel Information System                    x
h. System Analyst/Progr _er                        x
I. Computer Operator/Techniclon                   x
J. Communications, Local                           x
k. Progrm Management (Development of Manual)    x
1. Procurement/Logistics System
(Development of Manual)                       x
3. T 0 R Health Mapping Reserch Grant                  x
4. Bid and Award-Health Mapping Roesarch Grant         x
S. Procuremsnt of Microcomputer Hardware
A Software                                        x
Procuremet of Coemunication Equipmnt                x
Procurement of Vehicles                             x
Procurement of Supplios                             x
Procurement of Manuals                              x
6. Identification of Follows and
Fellowship Programs                               x
7. Ase_ ement of D6'ug Supply and
Distribution System                               x
S. Study of TB Drug Distribution System                x
9. Health Mapping/Aroe Classification
Study                                             x



- 53 -
Acti vity                                 lVear OlYear lJYar 2t1yar s1Year 4!r u
1O.Dev.l.ma"t of Mawale,  "raw.
a. Rapreduti.. of  1Maas. Program
b. Developmet of Manal.s,
Procur.meat/Legistice                          3
C. Introduction tf Manuals,
Procuremwt/Loglatie                                   x
*. Development of Manuale, HIS                      x
f. Reproduction of Manuals, HIS                            x
g. Devolopment of Program Budgeting                 x
h. Reproduction of Manuel, Progrm
Budgeting                                             x
T. Developmnt of Manuals, Porsonnel
Informtion System                             x
j  Reproduction of Manuals, Personnel
Inforsation System                                    x
k. Developmnt of Manuals, Info-comunications               x
1. Reproduction of Manuals, Info-communications            x
m. Developmnt of Manuals, Program-
Users Manual                                   x
n. Reproduction of Manuals, Program-
Users Manual                                          3
ResionallProvincial Health Planning
1. Procurement of Laptop Computers                            x
2. T 0 R of Consultants-Planning/Training
Method Development                        xxxxxxx
S. Development of Training Methods              xxxxxxx
4. Policy Directive to Initiate
Provincial Planning Process                       x
S. Selection of Provincial Trainors                    x
6. Training of Trainor*                                xxxxxxxx
7. Organize/Active Provincial Health Planning
Committee of Provincial Developm_nt Councils    xxxxxxxx
S. Selection of Priority Regions for
RDC Tours                                         x
9. Selection or Setting-up of projects
for RDC Observation/Study Tours                   x
10. Organization of RDC Study Tours                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
11.Setting of Provincial Planning process
in Motion                                        xxxxxxxx



- 54 -
Page S ot 7
Activity                                   IYor OIY r l|Y  r 2|Y  r 1!YO r 4!YO r Sl
Field Hmlth Sbraies
1. Pro* rear       en  Sleitriutlon of
Imfe-e    vbelh   e x
2. Idmtifi eatles of priority PHU  fos
et eOlve eupgPortt
a. Crte1ria for Sel ction                     x
b. Maem_im  for Supleme_tel MOE                   x
8. T 0 R Consultant (Development
Program  Manag*ment Manual)                 xxxxxxxx
4. Recrultment A Hir;ng of Consultant                   x
S. Recruitmnt A Hiring of Midwives                      x
Central Lab
1. Procurement A Installation of
Equipment                                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2. Selection of Follows, Fellowship
Program                                            x
8. Selection A Recruitment of Foreign
Consultants                                        x
Proiect Manement
1. Recruitment of Project
Management Staff                           xxxxxxxx
Recruitment of Management
Consultant                                  xxxxxxxx
2. Procurement of Vehicloe and
Equipment                                          x
3. Organization of NICC - T 0 R                         x
4. Orrnization of Pro-implementat-
S.  Planning
. Setting-up of Project Managemnt
System                                      x
S. Manag etnt of Day to Day PHDP
Operatlon                                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx



-55-
I~ ~ ~ ~~~N  
1w1                            ~~~~~~~~~iVer o Veer z jY*r gIvOr *IY Vo, 4IY  .  5
IEC
1. T ORC         Iltast, EE  Plamalog
cmeiteet                                    xxMxxxxxs
T OR C. _lt.ts  Key Me"o"
comatat                                      xxxxxxxx                                                          I
T 0 R Consultante, EEC Review
Comeuts nt                                  axxxaxxx
T 0 R Consultants, Schlto lEC
Developm_t                                  xxxxxxx
2. R.crult.snt/Hiring of Consultants/
Staff
S. Conduct annual IEC Planning
Workshop.                                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4. Prototype lEC Nlwel otter-Dovlopment
of Systm                                            x
Training
1. Laboratory A Training Needs Anssc m_nt/
Consultent (6 months)                               x
Laboratory A Training Needs Asesm_nt/
Workshops (6 workshop.)                             x
2. Curriculum Developmnt/Consultant
(18 months)                                        x
Curriculum D.v*!opment/Workshope
(8 workshops                                       x
8. Cours  Development Consultant                         xxxxxxxxx
4. Trainors' Training                                    x
S. Training of Various Personnel                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6. Training Evaluation Grant                                                           x
Evaluation
1. T 0 R of Annual Program Review
(Orant)                                           xa
T 0 R of Base lino and lpect
Surveys (Orent)                                     as
T 0 R of Proc_es Evaluation
(Consultant)                                       a.
T 0 R of Evaluation Officer (Consultant)
I months/year)                                           Xe
T 0 f of Evaluation Comlttee                  x
2. Organization of Evaluation Comittee                   x
* with MULTI-YEAR Contract



-56-
AEX 18
Page 7 or 7
ActlvWIty                                  YVeer OIY.er  llYear 2iYar S.lyear 4IYear S1
S. Ruc     mlml  med Hirlag
a. Casltig Flum (Anneal Program Review)              me
b. Ca    t    Fire (t.O.lle_/Sep.et
I:m                                           xx
s. Ceaultet Pr-ess  Evalueteon)                      M
d. Coo"ltat (Evelutio  Off ler)                      x
4. Identification of Prlority
Municipalitto                               x
S. Identificotlon of Sample Provinceo
for Evaluation                              x
6. Implementatlon of Evaluation Activitios              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
a. Annual Program Revise                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. Baseline Survey                                   x
c. Impct Survey                                                                  x
d. Process Evaluation                                Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Community Health Supwort
1. Organization of 04S Coordination Staff        x
2. Procurement of Equipment A Vehicles                 x
3. Recrultmnt A Hiring of Consultants
a. Development of Manuals                     x
b. Developm_nt of Training Design/
Curriculum                              x
4. Selection of Pilot Provinces/
Comunities                                 x
5. Firm-up Financial Grant Managemnt
Procedures                                  x
6. Organization of Community Health
Policy Committee                            x
7. Recruitment/Training of Contractual
Proj ct Staff                                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
S. Implementation of Component S Activitios:            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
a. Organizational Development
b. MO-COP Partners Training
c. Set-up CHDF Grant Fund Mechanism
d. Awarding of grants and implementation
of community health projecto
o with MULTI-YEAR Controct



- 57 -
AN 14d 
n"xi
mLTim rav u           N)ECT
ImalemenUtetie R......ibi I it,
Activity                                       WUm  SIETRAY         DON SUICES
Malaria                                           Public IeNlth
1. Pre",rmamt of Drug  a Pesticides                                    Malaria Control
blitt-yer eostract                                                 Services (MCI)
Pr.cuueamt of Storee oepee
and Spray Cam
Prcsurs  ef Veilel, Pick-ups,
Pump beat A Hul s
2. TO R d Isrch Studies  (O R)                                         MCIS
T OR do Coneltamt  (O R)
T C t of Trailnrs (O R)
3. Recrultmn_t of OR Consultanta/Trainors                               dCS
4. Bid and Award 0 R Stud;de,
Multi-year contract                                               Bios and Award
Committee (BAC)
5. Malaria Teaching Aid (coples)                                       MCS, HMD&TS
6. Recrultment & Hlrlng of Staff                                       MCS, P1O
7. C F - Treatment, Spraying, etc.                                     PHO
Schlito                                           Public Health        Schistosomiasis Services (SCS)
1. Procurement of Drugs A Pesticide.
Multl-yer contract
Procure m t of Lab Supplio A boots
Multi-yer contract
2. Procurem_nt of Binocular Microscopes                                PLS, BAC
Procurement of Micros PC-AT
Procurement of Overhead Projectors
Procure mnt of Paper Copi-rs
Procurement of Bush Cuttero
Procuremet of Vehicles
S. T O R for Snail Control Studios,
Morbidity Study                                                   SCS
T 0 R for Project Monitoring A
Evaluation System
4. Recruitmnt of Coneultanto-Project Benefit                           SCS
Monitoring A Evaluation System
Snail Control Studies, Morbidity Study
S. Schlito Conference design                                           SCS
S. Staff Screening A Recruitment                                       SCS
7. Case Finding Treatment, Snail control etc.                          PHO
Tuberculosis                                      Public Health        Tuberculosis Contol
1. Procuremnt of Drugs (SCC)                                            Service (TBS)
Multi-yer contract                                                PLS, BAC



-58 -
ANE  14
room 2 of 0
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
mlemantati.n ReeaonsibIIlty
Aetivitj                                         UNER SECRETARY        DOF SERVICE
I. Pre    ms=k of Sirnoelar Mlere.ee
Precurcm at of Slnclar Mereeope                                           PLS, BAC
S1pare Parte
Proeuremat of Utilily Vehicles
S. Selection of Priority Cities for TO
TCS                                                            TCS
Progrm Expenelon
4. Recruit mn t of Local and Foreign Experts
(Local Multi yer contract.                                              TCS
S. Selection of Training Follows                                              TCS
S. Identification of Fellowship Training
Cou_rs/Programs                                                          TCS
7. Seloction/Recrultmoet of Med Tech.
and Sputum Canvassers                                                   PHO
S. Training of Med Tech and Sputum Canvassers
Distribution of Microscopes                                              RTU
9. Drug Distribution System Studies
(Comonent 2)                                                            UM, PLC
10.T3 Strategic Program Revlew
(Evaluation)                                                            UCS
CCS                                            Public Health
1. Procurement of Drugs - Multi-year                                          PUi;, SAC
contract
Procurement of Micronutriontc -
Multi-year contract
Procurement of Oxygen concentrators
Multi-year contract
2. Identification of Priority Districts
for A RI                                                                 MCHS
Phasing of A R I Implementation
S. Developmnt of A R I Manuals
Dovelopmet of Vitamin A and Iron                                           MCHS
Teaching Guides
4. Reproduction and Printing of Manuals                                       PIHEC
5. Productlon and Reproduction of Growth
Charte-Multi-year contract                                               MCHS
6. Recrultment/Hiring of Nutritionists                                        PHO
7. Risk Claooificatlon of SBrangays
and Householde                                                          PHO, RHO



- 59 -
J1I  14
HEALTH SEVELIPf 7
!mDlemsntatin Reseuiilitw
Aetivity                                    UHDR ISCUETARY              DH SWEICE
S. Midwives Sp Cal Course
(A R I) - Training                                                        R1U
9. A R I - 1 district, 1 province per region
A R I - all district. in pilot province.
A R I - additional 2 provinces per region
A R I - all regiono except large regions 1/2)                                MOHS
Info-Coi
1. T 0 R of Local and Foreign Consultants          Manemelo nt
2  Recrultment/Hiring of Conoultants                                            MAS
a. Communications, Foreign
b. Computer Maintenance
c. Radio Transmission Maintenance
d. MIS Master Planner
a. Program Budget System
f. Materials Management A Inventory System
g. Personnel Information System
h. System Analyst/Prograumer
i. Computer Operator/Technician
J. Communications, Local
k. Progrom Management (Development of Manual)
1. Procurement/Logistica System
(Development of Manual)
3. T 0 R Health Mapping Research Grant                                         MAS
4. Bid and Award-Hoelth Mapping Rosrch Grant                                   MAS, PLS
6. Procurement of MIcrocomputer Hardware
A Software
Procurement of Communication Equipment                                     PLS
Procurement of Vehicles
Procurement of Supplies
Procurem nt of Manuals
S. Identification of Follows and
Followship Program                                                       MAS
7. Asoeesmnt of Drug Supply and
Disetribution System                                                     MAS, PLS
S. Study of TB Drug Distribution System                                        PLS
9. Health Mapping/Aroa Classification
Study                                                                    MAS, UPH



- 60 -
ANEX 14
i*ge 4 of I
HEALTH DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Iemlsmantioa Rtoeoo"lbmib ltY
Activity                                      UHitR SECTARY              DOFu SEtRICE
1O.D.velo.p_mt of Manuals, Prorm
m ao       *mU, MA
. Reproduction ot Manuals, Progrm
Maagemiat
b. Dovelop_snt of Manuals,
Procure_ent/Logi stics
c. Introduction of MLnunls,
Procurem_nt/Logl tiTc
e. Develo_pmnt of MLhU1l1, HIS
f. Roproduction of Manuals. HIS
g. Developmnt of Progrm Budgoting
h. Roproduction of Manuals, Progra
Budgoting
1. Deovlopmet of Manuals, Personnol
Inforation System
Roproduction of Manuals, Porsonnel
Information Syst4m
k. Devolopmsnt of Manuals, Info-come
1. Rcproduction of Manuals, Info-comm
m. Developmnt of Manuals, Program-
Usors Manual
n. Reproduction of Manuals, Program-
Users Manual
Realonel/Provincial Heloth Plannina             Chief of Staff
1. Procuremont of Laptop Computers                                       PLS
2. T 0 R of Consultants-Planning/Training
Mothod Dovolopment                                                  UCS
S. Doevlopmont of Training Methods                                       HIDTS
4. Policy Directive to Initiate
Prov'l Planning Procoes                                             UCS
S. Selection of Prov'l Trainors                                          RTU
S. Training of Treinors                                                  RTU
7. Organize/Activo Prov'l l+alth Planning
Committee of ProvlI Dovelopment Councils                            RHO
S. Selection of Priority Regions for
RDC Tours                                                           UCS
9. Selection or Setting-up of projectu
for ROC Observation/Study Tours                                     UCS
10. Organization of RDC Study Tours                                      UCS
11.Setting of Prov'l Planning process
In Motion                                                           UCS



- 61 -
AM I
IEALnT  DEWlL WPE   PrOJECT
ActivitW                                    UIMm  UECETAV         Do  11ic
Flild Health Servle                            Public NseltA
1 Procuremet and Distributlon of
Infeo-corw vehicle                                                PLS, SAC
2. Identifleation of priority SHUj for
InteIsivo support:
a. Critoria for Seloction                                           UCS
b. Mechanlim for Supplemental MOE
3. T 0 R Consultant (Development
Program Management Manual)                                        UPH
4. Recrultmnt A Hiring of Consultant                                   UPH
5. Recruitment A Hiring of ildwwves                                    PHO
Central Lob                                 Standards and Regulation
1. Procurement & Installation of
Equipment                                                         PLS, SAC
2. Selection of Follows, Fellowship
Program                                                           USR
3. Selection A Rocruitment of Foreign
Consultant.                                                       USR
Projlct Managoeont                          Chiof of Staff
1. Recruitment of Project
Manag met Staff
Recrultment of Managoent
Consultant                                                        UCS
2. Procurement of Vehicles and
Equipment                                                         PLS, SAC
S. Organization of NICC - T O R                                        UCS
4. Organization of Pro-implementat-
ion Planning                                                      UCS
S. Setting-up of Project Management
System                                                            ucs
S. Managent of Day to Day PHDP                                         UCS
Operation



- 62 -
IM&YTS DEV PlUM P"OJECT
Imel.mst one RsmsemslbLlitX
Activity                                    U1D11 SECUETARV       DtH SE1VICE
IEC                                            Chlef of Staff
1. T 0 R Conwultante, IEC Planning
C     _  Itent
T 0 R Com ult nts, Key  eo9ege
Consultant                                                         PINES
T 0 R Consultants, SEC Review
Consultant
T 0 R Consultants, Schlto EEC
Developmen,
2. Recruitment/Hiring of Consultants/
Staff                                                              PINES
S. Conduct annual IEC Planning
Workshope                                                          PINES
4. Prototype IEC Newsletter-Dove lopment
of System                                                          PINES
Training                                       Chief of Staff
1. Laboratory A Training Needs Asoseent/
Consultant (6 m*n m*nothe)                                         USR
Laboratory A Training Needs Assessment/
Workshops (C workshops)
2. Curriculum DOvelopment/Consultant
(16 *en sonth.)                                                    HMDTD
Curriculum Developm.nt/Workshop.
(a workshop.
8. Course Development Consultant                                        HMDTD
4. Trainers' Training                                                   HUDTD
S. Training of Various Personnel                                        HMDTD
S. Training Evaluation Grant                                            NMDTD
Evaluation                                      Chlof of Staff
1. T 0 R of Annual Progrm Roview
(Grant)                                                            UCS
T 0 R of Beeoline and Impact
Surveys (Grant)                                                    UCS
T 0 R of Process Evaluation
(Consultant)                                                       UCS
T 0 R of Evaluation Officer (Consultant)
3/year)                                                            ucs
T 0 R of Evaluation Coneittes                                        UCS
2. Organization of Evaluation Comitteo                                  UCS
* with ULTI-YEAR Contract



- 63 
AiW   14
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 7 of 
HEALTH DVELPMNT PUOJIECT
1lese"Was llleellbI I Ilt
Activity                                     UWD   SECRETARY            CON SERVICE
S. Recrui_tmA NW Hiring
a. Consulting Fire (Annual Progrm Rev)                                 UCS
b. C...ltl.  Pire (flr   lime/lIpet
Survey)
c. Consultant (Procees Evaluation)
d. Consultant (Evaluation Off leer)
4. Identification of Priority                                             UCS
Municipa lties
6. Identifietlon of Semple Provinces
for Evaluation                                                       UCS
6. Implmentation of Evaluation Activities
a. Annual Program Riosw                                                USC
b. Basoeline Survey
c. Impct Survey
d. Process Evaluation
Comunity He ath Support                            Chief of Staff
1. Organization of 04S Coordination Staff
2. Procurement of Equipment A Vehicles                                    CHS
S. Recrultment A Hiring of Consultants                                    PLS, BAC
a. Dovelopment of Manuals
b. Developmnt of Training Design/                                      CHS
Curriculum
4. Selection of Pilot Provinces/
Communities                                                          CHS
6. Firm-up Financial Grant Management
Procedures                                                           CHS
6. Organization of Comunity Health
Policy Comittee                                                      CHS
7. Recrultment/Training of Contractual
Project Staff                                                        CHS
8. Impleontation of Component 3 Activities:
a. Organizational Developmet                                         CHS
b. NCO-GO Partners Training
c. Set-up CHDF Grant Fund Mechanism
d. Awarding of grants and liplemntation
of community health projects
Health Policy Devolopmnt                        Chief of Staff
* with MULTI-YEAR Contrect



- 64 -
ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 8
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEmVLOPMENT PROJECT
List of DON Services Responsible for Implementation*
Under Secretary, Chief of Staff (UCS)
Under Secretary, Management (UM)
Under Secretary, Public Health (UPH)
Under Secretary, Standards and Regulations (USR)
Malaria Control Service (MCS)
Bids and Award Committee (BAC)
Pr3vincial Health Office (PHO)
Schistosomiasis Control Service (SCS)
Tuberculosis Control Service (TCS)
Regional Health Office (RHO)
Regional Training Unit (RTU)
Procurement and Logistics Service (PLS)
Maternal and Child Health Service (HCHS)
Public Information and Health Education Service (PIHES)
Management Advisory Service (HAS)
Health, Manpower Development and Training Service (HMDY)
Community Health Service (CHS)
*In order of Implementation Schedule, Annex 13



- 65 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPHUENT PIOJECT
Evaluation Tasks
1.        The evaluation of the Philippine Health Development Project
would provide information on how and why measurable changes in health
conditions took place over the life of the project. The nature and
magnitude of the health changes would be determined by the on-going
monitoring, or performance evaluation and the measurement of results,
or impact evaluation. These evaluations would draw heavily on the
Health Information System (HIS) recently instituted within the
Department of Health (DOH) and the Management Information System (MIS)
now being integrated into DOH. The emphasis in these evaluations
would be on quantitative reporting of program accomplishments at
periodic intervals not exceeding one year.
2.        While the disease eradication components of this project
would benefit largely from feedback from the performance and impact
evaluations, the managerial and community-oriented components would
better lend themselves to process evaluations 'aimed at elucidating
and understanding the internal dynamics of program operations.w1
Improvements in the functioning of the DOH would best be understood
from in-depth interviews with key managers as to their perceptions of
changes in the work for which they would be responsible occasioned by
the new technology and communications systems introduced by the
project. Other aspects of the project each as targeting high-risk
households would be evaluated by both 'luantitative measurement and
qualitative interviewing. The dominant mode of analysis to be
employed in the evaluation of the community health component would be
process-oriented. Here, the challenge would be to understand the
nature of the interaction and communication between local DOH and
other government personnel, NGOs and the community, and and why this
motivates the community to increase its own initiative and self-
reliance in health care.
3.        The specific areas of this project which would receive at
least partial attention from process evaluations would be the
following:
(a) The beneficiary, or client-centered, approach and,
within this,
(i) The utility of targeting high-risk households;
(b) Management decision making within the various levels of
the DOH by,
1 Michael Quinn Patton, Qualitative Evaluation Methods, Sage, 1980,
p.60.



- 66 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
(i) Tracing cost and time associated with various key
processes (getting disbursements or requisitioned
items to field offices for instance) at periodic
intervals over five-year life of the project:
%b) Intervieving selected officials in Manila and
field offices regarding their perceptions of
changes in management efficiency re: issues vital
to success of programs such as delivery of drugs
to field health units;
(c) The impact of involving non-governmental organizations
in the public health program on sustained, improved
health status, with particular regard to:
(i) The nature and effect of the partnership between
NGOs and government (health and non-health),
especially as perceived and acted upon at the
level of the community;
(ii) The process of empowerment, or increasing self-
reliance at the individual, household and
community levels--how is this done, to what end
and with what result:--how are resources mobilized
within the outside of communities for health and
other developmental purposes?
(iii) The manner in which the NGO-governmental
partnerships at the local level affect decision
making with~.n the DOH.
(iv) High-risk household identification and targeting
as a prominent NGO activity and the influence of
this process on improving health status--to be
compared to DOH areas where NGOs are not involved.
4.        Evaluation would be the responsibility of the DOH.
Performance and impact evaluations which largely monitor quantitative
program achievements would be done by DOH. The process evaluation,
however, which assesses perceived change among DOH managers and the
nature and effect of local DOH/local government NGO-community
interactions, would be carried out by host-country consultants, and
research agencies in coordination with DOH. Given the experimental
and sensitive nature of the Community Health Development component in
particular, the use of a third party in the evaluation should enhance
the credibility in the eyes of the community of beneficiaries and of
the larger public as well. The Bank would join the DOH in the annual
program reviews of health programs and activities to which these
evaluations would contribute.



- 67 -
ANNEX 16
PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DIVELOPMEN? PROJECT
Proposed FY90 Proiect Kanitorina Schedule
July 1989 - Launch Workshop
The project began officially in February 1989 with the
implementation of the first activity financed by the Japan Grant Facility.
Terms of reference for a number of pre-implementation activities have
already been initiated, including the development of implementation volumes
for each project component. The first Bank project monitoring activity
would be to participate in a Launch Workshop tentatively scheduled for July
1989. During this workshop, sessions would be held on the following
subjects:
1.   Procurement Packaging and Scheduling
2.   Community liealth Development - Implementation Tasks, Schedule
and Respon:;ibilities
3.   Communicable Disease Control Implementation
- Malaria
- Schistoso:iiasis
- TuberculoEis
4.   Health Policy - Structure and Implementation
5.   DOH Institutional Strengthening
- Informationlcommunication System
- Program - Budgeting
- Provincial Planning
- Central Laboratory (mainly procurement)
- Field Service Support
- IEC
-  Training
6.   Project Management and Coordination
7.   Evaluation and Monitoring
September/October 1989
A second Bank supervision mission would follow up on issues
identified during the Launch Workshop.
February/March 1992
A third supervision mission would coincide with preparation of the
proposed Philippine Health Development II project.



- 68 -
ANNEX 17
Selected Documents in the Project File
A. General Studies and Reorts
1.   Philivines Medium-Term Develovment Plan, 1987-1992.  Manilas
National Economic Development Authority, 1986
2.   National Conference on Safe Motherhood.  Manila:  DOH September
1987.
B.  Reports Relevant to Project Design
1.   DOH Project Proposal for the Philippine Health Development
Project. Manila, DOH, 1988.
2.   DOH Prolect Procurement Plan.  Manila, DOE, 1988
3.   Packet Radio Demonstration Summary Report.  Manila, Volunteers
in Technical Assistance, 1988.
4.   DOH Philippines Health Development Project Workshop Report.
October 20-21, 1988
5.   DOH Draft Bid Document for the supply, Delivery and Installation
of various goods, 1989.
6.   DOH Draft Department Order on Development of Five Year
Provincial Health Plans, May 1989.
7.   Agreement between DOH and the Philippine Institute for
Development Studies regarding PIDS-DOH Joint Research Project on
Health Policy and Development, August 1988.
8.   DOH TerLs of Reference for the Committee for Community Health
Policy, 1989.
9.   Draft Conditions and Procedures for DOH Approval and
Distribution of Grant Funds within the Community Health
Development component of the Health Development Project, April
1988.
10.   Draft agreement between DOH and DBM on Guidelines for
Standardizing Finance - Related arrangements with Government
Organizations and NGOs.



HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Malaria Morbidity and Mortality Trends
Rate per 1000,000 Population (1966-1986)
230-
220-
200-
ISO -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ISO -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
160$f 8Itt  II 
140  -
120                                                                            I
100~~~~~~wo0
so --
5~~~~~~~
60        0T
1966    1968    1970    1972    1974    1976    1978    1910        +   191      im
S:  D1H M66    197 0



PHIUPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OrganIaton Stucture Departmet of Hth
|SECRETAR OF HEALTH 
CHIE OF ECICTARYS STAIFF,TM
ATTACHED AGENCES                                              L.aiUu*..
AI:                a R
*~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ Cuim. upuur' Lbm-
* Pipla M. MWescn cam                              *  M" ~   "tinSAl
*  Da-mrom Dnrp B                                  * pulft h  a _   @ 8  s
,                               ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~* Hal,hmImasSei
*  hts m i ^ P I u i  a
|   i -                       - -                              -                |~~~~~~~pm- 
Foramip Amlmmijuim CusmWot Se8
Ol1o For Pic HalM SWvi          O1 Fr Homp. & FIcO F                        d Serv.   Olb  a d_  & P  co  1 _ 
Tidurclosis angolHoSpIita M i l s_ m o
l ~~~~~~Exe ouF
H D_ CogStel l Nll~N. Flul l | 
15 Aom    d                          131   H_I
Famnb P|                                 C 
OdH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Om
PARgmd Skuctr E. O. 119 (1987)



PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOH Regional and Provincil Structure
-FHsD
Prvid Hosm
r |
I   1       DHO ll 2  | |DHOX  | |  DH004  |
.    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l h  CZchnD
E44"I



PHUPPM.
HLA&IN DVKLOPMENY PROJECT
Wo Non Co   u        dlomn
-0- -G-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-                                   PcATLwat
PO,AKESrAtlON                 -                                                       t(/
PACIO //ErAWX S\A MI
Om/ A/  >  A-                           I
_\ / // T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



PHILIPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pocket Radbo SchematiK Dagram                                                             *     l    es..
SOLAR CELL   m  
Mvc.s   5mm ams
RADK) lCEMR
;=S}mPOlo ERn  Sem
COMPUIER IERMNALX
mgsols .-i0
asinine.  sueC
memmue~~~~~~~~~~~ ama.



R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PHUUPPINE5
HEALTH DELoPMEN PROJECT
Dab Fl - Mf           *RSl
SWIATIRCL DOkTA
DESKfOPWNH ARD DW
LASER ERt               .      -F 
7L -
+ _ =^ _ I . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROMDISK
GRAPHIC ROllER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLOGARI
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dw --_S 
f   ~~~~~~~~~~~r' W _, EVA INN
GRMAIC PLOTTER
PROPSAL
PbWS~~~~~~~~PHVI
CE*_ 



PHIUPPINES
HEALTH DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
irVoiffrotion. Education a CommunxicxAti (1EC) Schemati
DESKrOP    IAUDO AI 
PROUCIO                                     PRODU n N
PAC(TRADIONEQK' Y\/ 
m _       * -   *                                        SQ
DOH PROGRA SERS
COMIC BOKSERIES
0 RADO SRSM
V SERIES                                                      '-4
~~~~~~~~-dm6



WPUFNES
MMNEALmEOF~OMEW! PbOJECT
%IDifO PRCOUCIWON
ea~~~~~~~~    -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO I                     _~
mcoocompim.om 
CAMM(PORTA- )
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A OM C(Aen
'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OC
COLORMW"OLR MtWnoR                      COLCRz01N
VVE00UJ-2     %4M &) ALA
7c~~ID)          P,V  KCR
bt  t 72 !~~~~ eU-
,  . , ,  w60   PL  R



11
I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I                             i~~~~
V.I



PHIUPPINES
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Orgenb*Um Stucture
COMMUNITY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT (COMPONENT 11)
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
SERVICES ~~ROINIA                            ~a 14I0K
III
I~~~~~~~N
E i}~~~~~~PO4I HCHS                                      N^lOVUL IL
PROVWNCL 
OFFICER
PFKUE'T
comuN_E



PHILIPPINES                                           IBRD 21388
SCHISTOSOCMIASIS
Known Endemic Areas as of December 1987
Endemic
Municipalities                              Below 5% Prevalence
13  Cities                                  ,   Prevalence of 5% - 9%
Bouarovince                                 Prevalence of 10% and above
(See IBRD 21389 for names)
KILC)METLIRS  0           100          200         300
Region  Boundaries                                     I      I     I      I     I      I     I
I-  --  --T          III
MILES  0          50       100        150       200
CALAAJV    2>§C                                             2
2 Nau~a                                                               iifj/( 
IV    295°S      
\0               3 7    n 3iian
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1
44 Vll'5
Thi-,  ph; hae.o prlired °on
7hr Wnr0id H.ank/ tzs <L7e/hSai.etyf                              s                        e
tar the rondveojee nuJow/ fo rhre                                        )C                    nIi-
-d- th ,rOtoo hfluc
/,.ed an-d the hoondaoahow-                                                      Mant
nn tho 'wa do not imp/y on the-
aidseootdrmnt 00n the Jegal statott/                              /               a e p
tO any~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at
endnyfrwofrsen or a-prance of >/Sni
sh h-olnda,                                          /4 7               5          Tu
Oum                      Huenmsla *  Imuav m
XIPOLOG lWl
/ < ANGA C~~~~~~~ORQUETA ~ 
56    XB  IXA_ 
CITY ~ ~ .        7                    '.
T-~ ~ ~
74;i9L



Ti.,-IZ.-                                                                                             124-                                               105
CLASSIrI(:ATION (OF PROVINCES                                                                                        PHILIPPINES
BY G.t; RAPHICAL REGIONS                                                                        INCIDENCE OF MALARIA AS
I IItIOci               VI WFSTERN VAYAS                                                                           OF JANUARY  1987
00         1 Imos Noe                [18 AMtar                                                IS                                                                           or
2 AMo.                     [31 Capi-
[ llos s                  40 Antique
4 M-oUntje                 41  iso                                                                                          High incidnc
5 L Union                  42 NW.rn Ot idoenu l
6 Sengiot                  4.1 Nqgro dd No.1*                                                                               Los incidence
7    .a ..iras    VII  CENTRAtVISAYASi
II CAGAYAN VALLEY                44 Ceuo                     '                                                          [77    Noan Mairious
t BoUns                    45 Neg-ns Oriental
'I Cagyar                  46 8nlo
11) aImng-Apay.o            4 7 Siqup                                                                                        N.,ation-l CApit ls
11 hboLa          Vill EASTERN VESATAS                                          /
1 2 Iogan                   -8 Nothern S.m-r                                         9                                       Province Bo..ndarieo
1  N-o Vi-oya              40)  , S.-
1 4 Qirino                  50 Eaot-r Sanra,                            2 -                                                            o
III  CENTRAL LIZON                51 Iyte                                           10
15 Ne  EdRa                 52 Sout-en tV /I
16 Tala            I XA   WESTERN MIN4DANAO                                                                                  International Boundaries
1 7 Zabralares              5 [1 Za.o.aang dd Noe                                        55-n
1 8  ampana                 5 4 Zn.boangadd Sat
1 9 8              IXfB  WESTERN MINDANAS                                     2      4-5,
20 IlMan                     55 Baifis,
I VA  NATIONAt flAL REGION          5  s..,. 1S3    14
I V   SOUTHERN CAPITAI            5 7 T-otEawi                      -                          / \t
21 Aora               X  NWMHETE  MINDANATAO
22 Q-oo                      58 Sanyo don N-IS                                                                                          L l          L 2  0
23 R-aa1                    59 Ca-i6 i                                         21                                    jI
2 4 Ctianit                 6() Aosn ddt Non                      / 16S ooae  a                                                so       too       too       zoo
25 agoea                   61 Moas OiednslX 
2h6 (Ma.p                    62 Mui-an    O r l                1 7   1 8   1 9
27 Maridoqmw                 63 &"n N-                                 /                                             / '     I        1        s
2 E Mini- Orental           64 Ao        d.l1sa 2S.
29 Mindw Ocdd-l   XI  EASiItEN MINIOANAO                      IVA      o
[30 R-mshin                 65 San&n5I
[1 Polawmn                  66 DnvtoaOI                        /            ttai|2                           V
V 8i501                          6 7 Da.-                   /                          22
32 Cam esn Nwet             68 Daa don S/,
333 Ca.sairn Sir            69 Sa1h CEI\E.at
34 Canoioad         XII CENTIUI MINNONAO
35 Alby                      70 La    d Na  7\Is
31  Sonog                   71 t- on Sar
3 7 MasE-e                   72 NoE CoiahaR,
73 AtaMgttInV
74 S&un Vdat                                29i
[                      akr4l,/   '                                         / /4~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~44 Vil 
3                                                            431/  )   )
12                                                                     s.                                                                                                   no- 
>\ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                  :''"'IAs9
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB7
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
_-  CJ                         ;                                                                                        _  r.r_-  r   -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~-     I  I- I  tN   t,  I    N   _g  as     r__5G 
NHiN
I N   .      5  



