Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3099 PH
                   (Health Development Project)
                              between
                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 9, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3099 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November  9,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES   (the   Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has received from the Government of Italy a
grant (the Italian Grant) in  an  amount of Lira 12,520,000,000 to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of the
Republic of  Italy  and  the  Government  of  the  Republic of the
Philippines concerning  assistance  to  the  National Tuberculosis
Control  Program,  dated  November  3,  1988  (the  Italian  Grant
Agreement);
     (C)  the Borrower has received from the Government of Japan a
Page  2
grant (the Japanese  Grant)  in  an  amount  of Yen 540,000,000 to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in two  agreements,  respectively,  dated November 29, 1988,
and even date herewith (the Japanese Grant Agreements) between the
Borrower and the  Bank  acting  as  Administrator  of the Japanese
Grant; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "DOH" means the Borrower's Department of Health; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of  seventy million one hundred thousand
dollars ($70,100,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in  a  bank
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1996,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
Page  3
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
DOH with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate  health  practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b) Without limitation upon  the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the  proceeds  of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
Page  5
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  paragraph  (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur,  subject  to  the proviso of paragraph
(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall  have complied with the provisions
of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Secretary  of  Finance  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretary of Finance
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              SECFIN                           7550  CBP-PH
              Manila                           40268 CB-CONF
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                   By /s/ Vicente R. Jayme
Page  6
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods                  30,000,000         100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost), and 80%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(2)  Consultants' and       25,000,000         100%
     other services
     (including
     salaries of
     contractual
     staff) and
     training
(3)  Grants for              8,100,000         100%
     services under
     Part C
(4)  Unallocated             7,000,000
                           ___________
                            70,100,000
          TOTAL
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  7
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support the Government's
priorities to expand and  improve  public and primary health care,
especially for high  risk  groups;  strengthen  the efficiency and
effectiveness   of   DOH;   promote   collaboration   between  the
Government, local  communities  and non-governmental organizations
in  meeting  community   health   needs;  and  establish  improved
mechanisms for future policy development.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening DOH Health Impact Programs
(1)  The expansion and improvement  of  the effectiveness of DOH's
malaria control program, inter  alia, through the establishment of
a new organizational structure for prevention efforts and improved
malaria treatment within the existing health delivery system;
(2)  strengthening of DOH's  national tuberculosis control program
through  improvements  in   case-finding,  patient  treatment  and
follow-up of  cases,  as  well  as  improving program supervision,
providing the program, for the first time, with an urban focus;
(3)  assisting the  national  schistosomiasis  program  in sharply
reducing the prevalence  rate  of  the disease in schistosomiasis-
infected areas by the  deployment  of mobile schistosomiasis teams
in each endemic municipality to  enable case finding and treatment
in surrounding areas; and
(4)  strengthening DOH programs for, inter alia, (a) the reduction
of  infant  and  child  illness  and  death  through  provision of
micronutrient supplements for  children  and  expanded support for
the acute respiratory infection program;  and (b) the reduction of
maternal  mortality  and  fertility  through  provision  of micro-
nutrient supplements for  pregnant  women  and expansion of health
services.
Part B:   Strengthening DOH Institutional Capability
     Strengthening  of  DOH's  institutional  capability  by:  (i)
strengthening management information  and communication systems at
key central and field offices;  (ii) developing sound planning and
budgeting processes  and  capabilities  at  central,  regional and
provincial levels; (iii)  strengthening  service delivery capacity
at selected  DOH  field  units;  (iv)  upgrading  the  DOH central
laboratory; (v) providing technical  and staff support for project
management; (vi) improving and coordinating information, education
and communication activities  within  DOH; (vii) strengthening and
coordinating training within DOH;  and establishing and supporting
evaluation mechanisms  for  both  project  and  program needs; and
(viii) strengthening DOH's capacity  to plan and monitor community
health development activities.
Part C:   Partnerships for Community Health Development
     Assisting  in   the   development   of  partnerships  between
Government  and  non-governmental   and   other  community  based-
organizations for  community  health  development,  through, inter
alia,  the  development  of  proposals  for,  and  the  subsequent
implementation   of,   community    health    projects   by   such
organizations, as  well  as  the  provision  of  services  by such
organizations,  DOH  and  local  governmental  staff  in  selected
provinces.
Part D:   DOH Policy and Program Development
     Strengthening of:  (i)  planning  and  development  of future
Page  8
health sector policies and  programs  including establishment of a
national committee and a  technical  secretariat for such purpose;
and (ii) the carrying out of related studies.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1995                                   1,285,000
September 15, 1995                               1,335,000
March 15, 1996                                   1,385,000
September 15, 1996                               1,440,000
March 15, 1997                                   1,495,000
September 15, 1997                               1,555,000
March 15, 1998                                   1,610,000
September 15, 1998                               1,675,000
March 15, 1999                                   1,740,000
September 15, 1999                               1,805,000
March 15, 2000                                   1,875,000
September 15, 2000                               1,945,000
March 15, 2001                                   2,020,000
September 15, 2001                               2,095,000
March 15, 2002                                   2,175,000
September 15, 2002                               2,260,000
March 15, 2003                                   2,345,000
September 15, 2003                               2,435,000
March 15, 2004                                   2,530,000
September 15, 2004                               2,625,000
March 15, 2005                                   2,725,000
September 15, 2005                               2,830,000
March 15, 2006                                   2,940,000
September 15, 2006                               3,050,000
March 15, 2007                                   3,170,000
September 15, 2007                               3,290,000
March 15, 2008                                   3,415,000
September 15, 2008                               3,545,000
March 15, 2009                                   3,680,000
September 15, 2009                               3,825,000
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
Page  9
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Philippines
may be granted  a  margin  of  preference  in accordance with, and
subject to, the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the  purchase  of  the  pesticide  DDT up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  $1,200,000 may be awarded through
limited  international  bidding   procedures   on   the  basis  of
evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from all manufacturers,
and an adequate number  of  dealers  to ensure competitive prices,
each eligible under  the  Guidelines,  and  in accordance with the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Subject to the prior approval  of  the Bank and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  proprietary drugs or
pesticides up to  an  aggregate  not  to  exceed $6,200,000 may be
procured under contracts negotiated directly with the manufacturer
of such drugs or pesticides.
3.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per  contract  but more than the equivalent
of $25,000 per contract up  to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent  of  $8,500,000  may  be  procured  under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 per contract  up  to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,500,000  may  be procured on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.   (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more  as  well as each contract referred
to in paragraphs 1  and  2  of  Part  C hereof, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The Borrower shall take necessary steps to establish and
adequately staff a  Project  Coordinating  Unit  in DOH, appoint a
Project Coordinator  with  qualifications  and  terms of reference
agreed with  the  Bank,  and  designate  officials responsible for
Project implementation in each implementing DOH division.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall,  during  the Project implementation
period, maintain  the  Project  Coordination  Unit  referred to in
subparagraph (a) of this  paragraph with appropriate powers, staff
and resources.
2.   The Borrower shall  establish  a community health development
fund  by  January  1,  1990,  in  accordance  with  procedures and
operating guidelines agreed with the Bank.
3.   The Borrower shall  issue  regulations,  agreed with the Bank
and endorsed by such departments  and  agencies of the Borrower as
shall be appropriate, setting  out  conditions for distribution of
funds for the Project, including  the approval and distribution of
grants under Part C of the Project.
4.   The Borrower shall enter  into  agreements with selected non-
governmental and other  community-level organizations, selected in
accordance with criteria and  procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
for the provision of  services  by  such organizations in carrying
out Part C of the Project.
Page  11
5.   DOH shall, by March  1,  1990,  issue a directive agreed with
the Bank  to  designated  provinces  requiring  such  provinces to
develop a  provincial  health  plan  to  be  submitted  to  DOH by
October 30, 1990.
6.   The  Borrower  shall,  by  January  1,  1990,  establish  and
adequately  staff,  and  thereafter   maintain,  a  Committee  for
Community Health Policy with  terms  of  reference agreed with the
Bank.
7.   The  Borrower  shall,  by   March  1,  1990,  establish,  and
thereafter  maintain,  a   National   Council  for  Health  Policy
Development with terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
8.   The Borrower  shall  review  with  the  Bank,  not later than
October  of  each  year  of  Project  implementation,  the  health
programs and activities supported by the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
Page  12
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered  into  by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with respect to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,   withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the  eligible  Categories  for  the  Project  shall follow such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  13
