Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19585-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 218.2 MILLION
(US$202.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT I
November 6, 2000
Brazil Country Management Unit
Enviromnentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2000)
Currency Unit  =   Real (R$)
R$1.00   =   US$0.55
US$1.00        R$1.82
EUR 1.00       US$0.92615
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB               -   Bank of Brazil
BNB              -  Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CAS              -   Country Assistance Strategy
CONTAG           -  National Confederation of Agricultural Workers
FETAGs           -   State Federations of Agricultural Workers
ICB              -  International Competitive Bidding
IICA             -  Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture
INCRA            -  National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform
LCRD             -  Local Council of Rural Development
LSMS             -  Living Standards Measurement Survey
MDA              -  Ministry of Agrarian Development
MIS              -  Management Information System
NCB              -  National Competitive Bidding
NEAD             -  Center for Agrarian Studies
NGO              -  Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP/PAPP        -  Northeast Rural Development Program
NTU              -  National Technical Unit
PPA              -  Government Development Plan, 2000-2003
PRONAF           -  National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture
RPAPs            -   Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects
SOE              -   Statement of Expenditure
STU              -   State Technical Unit
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director: John Redwood
Task Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo



Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ................................................................1
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ........                                           ...............        2
B. Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ...............                                  .........................          2
2.  Main  sector issues and Government strategy  ..................                                 ...........................           3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........                                       ............       4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ...............................................................                                                    5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........                                         ................       5
3. Benefits and target population ..............................................................                                          6
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............                                   ...........................           6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection  ...........                                      ....................        8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...                                                      9
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design  ..........                                      ....................        9
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ............                                       ........................       11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..................                                 ............................          11
E. Summary Project Analyses
i. Economic ...............................................................                                                             12
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                            12
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                            12
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                        13
5. Social ...............................................................                                                               13
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                             13
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................                                               14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ...............................................................    14
2. Critical risks ...............................................................                                                       15
3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                                        16
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................                                             16
H.  Compliance with  Bank Policies ...............................................................                                                   17



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Evaluation of the Brazilian Experience with Community-Based Land Reform
Annex 3.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 4.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5.     Economic Analysis
Annex 6.     Financial Summary
Annex 7.     Procurement and Disbursement Affangements
Annex 8.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.     Documents in Project File
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance



Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Brazil Country Management Unit
Date: November 6,2000                                  Task Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                    Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: 50772         T Sector: Agriculture        Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan           Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X1  Yes       No
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan        [] Credit        [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
Amount: EUR 218.2 million (US$202.1 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:           Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% during the first four years, 0.75% thereafter
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (EUR million):
Source                                                              Local              Foreign          Total
Federal Govermment (40%)                                             174.6                 0.0          174.6
State Governments (5%)                                               21.8                  0.0           21.8
Community Associations (5%)                                          21.8                  0.0           21.8
IBRD (50%)                                                           162.0                56.2          218.2
Total               380.2                56.2          436.4
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agency(ies):
* The National Ministry of Agrarian Development
*  State Governments
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/EUR million):  2001       2002       2003        2004
Annual:      43.6        80.7       82.9        11.0
Cumulative:      43.6       124.3      207.2      218.2
Expected Effectiveness Date: February 28, 2001                                  Closing Date: September 30, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators:
The proposed loan would assist Brazil in addressing one of the major factors underlying poverty in the countryside:
inadequate access to land by the rural poor. The project has been preceded by two highly successful Bank-financed
pilots, and is likely to be followed by further operations to support the Government's program of community-based
land reform. The first pilot was implemented as a component within the Ceari Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
(Loan 3918-BR), and the second was the self-standing Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Loan
4147-BR, known in Brazil as Projeto Cedula da Terra), currently under implementation in five states of Northeast
Brazil. These pilots have tested a community-based approach to land reform in which beneficiary groups negotiate
directly with willing sellers for the purchase of suitable properties, and then obtain financing for the purchase of the
land and support for complementary subprojects and technical assistance to establish themselves and improve the
productivity of the acquired properties.
These pilots were designed in a context whereby the Government of Brazil has been stepping up its efforts to address
longstanding issues of landlessness. Since 1995, the Government has redistributed land to about 372,500 families,
using a combination of traditional approaches, including expropriation, settlement on government-owned lands, and
direct negotiation of land sales by the government with landowners. Beginning in early 1996, the Government also
began experimenting with a community-based approach to land reform in the Northeast region under the two above-
mentioned Bank-supported pilots. The results have been extremely positive, in terms of speed, cost per family,
participation of beneficiaries and expected impact. With a stated objective of reaching 15,000 families in three years,
Projeto Cedula da Terra is about to be completed, and will benefit some 23,000 families with about 617,000 hectares
at a per hectare cost of about R$193 and per family cost of about R$4,759. With complementary investments of
R$4,114 per family, the results are significantly below the costs of traditional interventions.  In addition, a large
number of families have already identified properties for purchase (but without yet completing the transaction until
financing is available).
The proposed loan would extend the community-based approach to land reform across ten Northeast States, including
Minas Gerais, and would introduce/pilot the approach in the South/Southeastern States of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul,
Santa Catarina, and Espirito Santo. The proposed project is complementary to other approaches to land reform
practiced today in Brazil, and as a rule will not finance lands that would be subject to expropriation. It seeks to reduce
rural poverty in these regions by increasing the incomes of about 50,000 poor rural and peri-urban families by
extending the community-based approach to land acquisition and participation in complementary, demand-driven
community subprojects. Key performance indicators will include: (a) the number of families benefited; (b) the
economic efficiency and financial viability of the community subprojects as measured by the Internal Rate of Return
and the repayment rate by the beneficiaries of the land loans, (c) the poverty alleviation impact as measured by
household income growth and (d) cost effectiveness of the community-based approach as measured by financial costs
associated with the land purchase, subproject investments and other financing.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 20160-BR                    Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30,2000
The current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil identifies the reduction of poverty and inequality as
the central objective of the Bank's assistance efforts. The Northeast region, where proposed project activities will be
concentrated, holds the largest share of rural poor, in Brazil specifically and Latin America generally. Although a
wealthier region overall, the South/Southeast also faces serious income distribution issues, including limited access by
the rural poor to land assets. The CAS recommends specific anti-poverty policies, including expansion of the
successful land reform pilot (Loan 4147-BR) to the rest of the Northeast and other parts of the country. It also
emphasizes the importance of decentralization and shifting of expenditure and implementation responsibilities from
the Federal Government to the States, municipalities and local communities.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural Poverty and Inequality
Poverty in Brazil has a strong rural and regional dimension. About 48 percent of the Brazilian poor (16.5 million
people) live in rural areas, and the incidence of rural poverty is more than double that for large cities and other urban
areas. The Northeast Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth, accounts for nearly 20% of Brazirs total land
area and almost 30% of its population (1999). However, more than 60%/o of all Brazilian poor, and about 69% of the
country's rural poor, live in this one region, where (a) a relatively poor natural resource base, (b) periodic droughts due
to variable agroclimatic conditions, (c) skewed land distribution and (d) the poor functioning of rural financial
markets, have combined to perpetuate rural poverty. In the South/Southeast, although the quality of land and other
natural resources is generally better than in the Northeast, poverty is similarly concentrated in rural areas.
* The distribution of income and assets in Brazil is among the most unequal in the world. As a result, poverty rates are
much higher than in other countries with a similar level of per-capita GNP. Beyond the obvious relationship between
inequality and poverty, there is an emerging consensus that asset inequality is also a hindrance to economic growth
(Deininger and Squire, 1997). A strategy for addressing rural poverty needs, therefore, to emphasize policies and
programs to reduce this asset inequality, with a range of interventions directed at different population groups.
Expanded education and training opportunities are critical variables, both for improving rural productive activities and
services and to facilitate absorption of part of the rural poor into other sectors of the economy. Commercial
agriculture can also absorb some wage labor, especially for those with basic education, and further expansion of
irrigated areas in the Northeast will create more such opportunities. For smallholders who remain in rural areas,
physical infrastructure, services and productive investments can significantly improve living conditions. Demand-
driven community-based approaches (including community-based land reform) can be particularly effective. Finally,
there is a group of rural poor (typically older, often widows as heads of household, and those farming in areas with
especially poor natural resources) who will not benefit sufficiently from any of the aforementioned strategies, and for
whom a special safety net is critical to ensuring a basic decent living standard.
Land Reform
- Limited access to land and extreme inequality in land ownership are central factors contributing to rural poverty in
Brazil. The 1996 Agricultural Census shows 4.5 million rural households with insufficient land for subsistence
(Annex 2), and while these data do not allow a direct relation, almost all of the 16.5 million rural poor are likely to be
found in the 4.5 million rural households with little or no land. The same Agriculture Census and other studies have
shown that family farms in the Northeast are more efficient and labor-intensive than large farms, thus demonstrating
that skewed land distribution also limits agricultural productivity and employmnent. This finding is consistent with
studies in other rural labor-surplus economies that show efficiency gains in family farms compared to large estates.
Smallholders' access to credit is often limited by the absence of undisputed titles, creating a firther bias in favor of
large farms. Rental and sharecropping arrangements are common, but, without security of tenancy and access to
credit, do not provide the same benefits as land ownership.
Land reform can make a quantitatively important contribution to a rural poverty reduction strategy. Considering that
land reform can create a sustainable source of income for the beneficiaries, its cost compares favorably with
parameters relating to alternative strategies. For example, the cost of simple urban housing with basic public services
in a mid-sized Northeastern city would typically be R$8,000-10,000. The investment cost per industrial job has been
about R$30,000. This compares favorably with the cost of community-based land reform, of about R$10,000 per
family.
* Economic changes in Brazil in recent years have made land reform more feasible than in earlier periods. This is
because many of the economic distortions that have historically contributed to land concentration have been
alleviated. Agricultural credit subsidies have been cut drastically, and inflation is low. The rural land tax (ITR) has
been modified to significantly raise taxation on unproductive land. The combined effect of these changes has been to
reduce the financial attractiveness of holding land for non-productive purposes, which in turn has increased the supply
of land and reduced its price. Particularly in the Northeast large tracts of land are available for sale at low prices by
owners, as well as from banks that hold land as collateral for defaulted farm debt. With labor-intensive production



Page 4
systems (partly subsistence, partly market-oriented), small farmers can significantly increase production on these
lands and thus both increase their family incomes and repay the cost of the land. In the South/Southeast, higher land
prices and wage levels present somewhat different economic conditions, although there are still areas available where
it is believed that land reform can increase both efficiency and family farm incomes.
In the past, land redistribution in Brazil has focused on Government-executed programs involving expropriation with
compensation, and land settlement. These administrative approaches were often associated with long delays, high
costs, and political/legal conflict, with the result that: (a) the number of people benefited over the years was quite
small in relation to needs; (b) beneficiaries tended not to receive final titles for a very long time, if at all, and the cost
per beneficiary proved extremely high because repayment for the cost of land expropriation and complementary
investments by those resettled (as required by law) rarely occurred; and (c) the cost of compensation frequently rose
as expropriated owners successfully pursued their cases in the judicial system. Government commitment to effective
land reform increased significantly during the first Cardoso Government (1995-98), with the President setting a target
to resettle 280,000 families in the three years ending 1998. To that end, from 1995 through 1999, the National
Institute for Colonization and Land Reform (INCRA) redistributed more than 9 million hectares to about 372,500
landless rural households. These families were resettled using mainly traditional approaches to land redistribution
through expropriation or direct purchase from landowners. The Government has also experimented with other
complementary approaches to land reform, such as a public land auction in Rio Grande do Sul, Projeto Casulo in the
North and Northeast, and the community-based pilots financed by the Bank.
The community-based land reform approach was initially piloted under the Bank-financed Ceara Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project in 1996, through which some 700 families acquired a total 23,377 hectares of land, at a per family
cost of R$6,083 and a per hectare cost of R$179 for land, plus R$5,574 per farnily for complementary investments.
Given the promising results of the Ceari pilot (both in terms of administrative and cost efficiency), the Brazilian
Government made its first-ever request to the Bank for a free-standing Land Reform Project, which culminated in the
Projeto Cedula da Terra (Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, 4147-BR) in five Northeastern States
(Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco). Projeto Cedula da Terra combines a community-based
approach to land acquisition with a matching grant mechanism to finance complementary investments aimed at
increasing land productivity and smallholder incomes. With a stated objective of resettling 15,000 families in three
years, Projeto Cedula da Terra is about to be completed and will benefit some 23,000 families with about 617,000
hectares at a per hectare cost of about R$ 193 and per family cost of about R$4,759 for land, plus about R$4,114 for
complementary investments. These costs are significantly below those of the Government's traditional approaches
(Annex 2). The positive results from Projeto Cedula da Terra prompted the Federal Government to engage the Bank
in discussions on expanding the community-based approach to the rest of the Northeast and to other parts of Brazil.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would extend the community-based approach to land reform across the Northeastern states,
drawing on the lessons from the successful ongoing and fully committed Projeto Cedula da Terra project in five
Northeast states. The proposed project would also pilot the community-based approach in four Southem/Southeastern
States, where the structure of agriculture varies greatly from the Northeast (e.g., more diversified, capital-intensive,
high-input). It would target lands that are not subject to expropriation and the poorest potential beneficiaries of the
national land reform program. The project would follow the basic principles of the ongoing pilot project:
*  Decentralization: The success of effective decentralized implementation of rural development projects in the
Northeast under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs) and the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation
Pilot project helped to create a model for an institutional framework for a decentralized, community-based
approach to land reform, administered jointly by State agencies and the financial institutions.
*  Community-based approach: The community-based approach has proven cost-effective and non-conflictive.
Community associations take the initiative by selecting and negotiating the land purchase and deciding priorities
for productive investments, with funds being directly channeled to the respective community associations (see
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements below). The pilot experiences show that reliance on community
initiative leads to higher sustainability through self-selection of beneficiaries and lands to be purchased.



Page 6
*  Access to Investments: Rather than suffering from delays in public provision of support services, community
associations have immediate access to financing for joint investments to make their newly acquired lands
productive. A lump-sum amount, with a per family ceiling, is available for infrastructure and productive
investment subprojects (see detailed description, Annex 3).
*  Piloting and thorough evaluation: While important lessons learned from the pilots have been incorporated into
the proposed project, thorough evaluation will continue and adjustments to the project will be made as problems
are detected. The National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG), its state-level federations
(FETAGs) and local unions will actively participate in the evaluation of all phases of the proposed project, and
other representatives of organized civil society could do the same.
Based on the pilot experiences, it is expected that the proposed project will continue to have significantly lower costs
per beneficiary family and yield higher family incomes and higher returns to investments, compared with traditional
land reform methods (Annex 2). Preliminary studies by FAO and the Center for Agrarian Studies of the Ministry of
Agrarian Development (NEAD) indicate that post-adjudication costs under the traditional approach can increase land
expropriation costs three-fold (see section B.2., above).
C: Project Description Summary. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for
a detailed cost breakdown):
The total project cost is EUR436.4 million, of which the Bank will finance EUR218.2 million. Component A (Land
Purchase) would be implemented with Federal Govermnent counterpart funds, including the National Land Fund (Ley
Complementar No. 93). It would finance community-based land purchases for approximately 50,000 rural families.
Component B (complementary investment subprojects) would provide matching grant funds for on-farm investments,
including both infrastructure and productive activities, and related technical assistance. Strengthening of community
associations, training and technical assistance at the State level would be supported under Component C, and
incremental funding for Project administration, monitoring and supervision under Component D. Given the phased
nature of the Land Reform Program, Component E would support impact evaluation that is integral to continued
calibration of the overall design and implementation. The Federal Government will finance EUR173.7 million of the
total project cost (40%), respective State Governments will provide EUR21.8 million (5%/O), community associations
will provide EUR21.8 million in cash or in kind (5%), and the Bank loan will finance the remaining 50% of costs. It
is expected that rural workers' unions, FETAGs and CONTAG will play a critical role in both technical assistance and
inmpact evaluation activities. Other civil society organizations would also be welcome to participate.
Component                       Category          Cost IncL        % of
Contingencies     Total
(EUR million)
(A) Land Purchase (land purchases for 50,000  Physical (Land)        173.7            40.0
poor farm families)
(B) Complementary Investment Subprojects    Physical (Civil          214.3            49.0
(small grants to communities for investments,  Works, Goods and
technical assistance and start-up)      Materials)
(C) Community development support and       Institution-building       13.3            3.0
strengthening (technical assistance and
training at the State level)
(D) Project administration, supervision and  Project                  26.8             6.1
monitoring (State level)                Management
(E) Impact evaluation and dissemination by  Other                       8.3            1.9
Federal Govermnent
Total        436.4           100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Increased experimentation with the community-based approach to land reform as a complement to more traditional,
administrative methods; strong local participation encouraged through a decentralized approach; sustainability of



Page 6
subprojects enhanced through timely access to resources for complementary investments and technical assistance; and
thorough land reform impact evaluation.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
*  The sustainable increase in the incomes and quality of life of about 50,000 poor rural and peri-urban families
previously without land or with insufficient land for subsistence.
* The generation of economic benefits in the form of increased agricultural output on the lands that are being acquired
by beneficiaries.
* Expansion of community-based approach to land acquisition, helping the Government to continue its overall land
reform program in a cost-effective and sustainable manner.
Target population:
The project is targeted at 50,000 poor rural and peri-urban families in ten Northeast States (Alagoas, Bahia, Ceari,
Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe) and four Southern/Southeastern
States (Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Espirito Santo). It is estimated that, overall, Brazil has about 4.5
million families of occupants, renters, rural workers and owners of less than a full-sized family plot (1996 Agricultural
Census; Gasquez and Concei,co, 1998). Given that not all of these have the desire or ability to become family
farmers, the likely number who could potentially benefit from land reform is probably closer to one-third to one-half
of this number, or between 1.5 and 2.3 million families.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period:        Three years
Executing Entities:
Project Implementation:
e  Community associations (consisting of families who do not own land or own insufficient land for subsistence) identify
suitable lands and negotiate the purchase of those lands with willing sellers.
* Communities present to the Local Council of Rural Development (LCRD) (a) the owner's declaration of willingness
to sell at a specified price, (b) the request for land purchase financing and (c) their choice of Financial Agent
* The LCRD (a) analyzes community members' eligibility, the general characteristics of the land offered for sale and
whether the negotiated price is consistent with local land market conditions and (b) makes resulting recommendations
to the State Technical Units (STUs).
* The STU processes the community land purchase proposal, confirming that (a) the title to the land is clear, (b) no
other condition threatens the effectiveness of the land purchase and (c) the negotiated price is consistent with market
conditions.
* The STU authorizes the respective Financial Agent to enter into a loan agreement with the community association for
the land purchase.
* The Financial Agent concludes the loan agreement with the community association and disburses loan funds to
complete the land purchase.
* Communities decide internally as to the distribution of land among participating households and the corresponding
payment obligations.
* Communities participating in the land purchase component are then eligible to receive funding for complementary
investment subprojects and technical assistance to establish themselves on the land and to improve its productivity.
The STU approves the subproject proposal on technical, environmental and institutional parameters.



Page 7
* Following subproject approval by the STU, matching grant funds are disbursed by the Financial Agent to the
community association, under a subproject agreement (convenio) signed between the STU and community
association, for implementation and completion of the complementary subprojects.  Community contributions, in
cash or in kind, would constitute the counterpart financing for these complementary subprojects.
* Under a pilot component, financial agents would directly approve and finance selected subprojects, without the
participation of the STUs. In these cases, banks would assume the full credit risk of the operation. Banco do Brasil
has indicated the possibility of using lands held as collateral from defaulted farm debt for this component. The
objective of this pilot is to open the path for commercial bank participation in land reform in Brazil, particularly for
the most promising beneficiaries.
Project Coordination: STUs will: (a) appraise community subproject proposals for compliance with project
guidelines and eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual; (b) assess community participation in
identifying, preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c) supervise the quality of
overall project implementation through field supervision and through the Management Information System (MIS); (d)
implement public information campaigns to disseminate information about the project; (e) periodically report progress
related to the project performance indicators; (f) prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews;
and (g) submit project Annual Operating Plans to the National Technical Unit (NTU) for approval.
Project Oversight: The Minister of Agrarian Development undertakes project oversight and the function of national
project coordination through the NTU, under the Executive Secretary of the Ministry. The NTU approves the Annual
Operating Plans for the Project and the respective resource allocations for Participating States. The NTU is
responsible for overall project oversight with respect to monitoring, supervision, evaluation and reporting required
under the project. Both Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste have declared their willingness to act as financial
agents for beneficiary associations under the proposed project.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The Special Account and the project accounts will be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be
provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial year. The audit reports would convey the
auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs), their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. With respect
to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together
with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The preceding land reform pilots have involved very innovative and
pro-active approaches to monitoring and evaluation by the Borrower and intensive supervision by the Bank (see
Section 3 below on Lessons Learned), and these will be continued and enhanced under the proposed project. The
project monitoring will be based on a Management Information System (MIS) operated and maintained by the STUs.
The project MIS is a data base organized in three general levels: (a) a subproject information module, which contains
pertinent physical and financial information for each subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which
SOEs are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports are generated. STUs (and
Financial Agents under the pilot) will establish, maintain and update the MIS, including key Project information.
With information from the MIS, combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project
contracted studies and audits, STUs would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify implementation
problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project implementation. The
NTU will aggregate all information from the MIS under its on-line monitoring system and undertake comprehensive
impact evaluation of the project, drawing comparisons to the traditional approaches to land reform, leading to
improvements in either (i.e., community-based or traditional) approach. CONTAG will actively participate in these
and other aspects of project monitoring and evaluation. Representatives of other civil society organizations could also
participate.
Impact evaluation of the community-based land reform was designed and has been field tested under the pilot project.
The proposed project would finance the continued implementation of the study and its extension to the newly included
States. It would be based on panel data sets, with a baseline taken in year 0 and follow-ups in years 1, 2, 5 and 10 (the
project would finance the baseline and the year 1 and 2 surveys and their analyses). The basic panels to be used



Page 8
include: (a) direct beneficiaries, their settlements, and the surrounding indirect beneficiaries (e.g., landless workers,
merchants, providers of inputs and outputs) ; (b) a random sample of farms from which can be constructed the control
groups of farms which are not changing hands in the land reform; and (c) a random sample of households from which
can be constructed the control groups of non-beneficiaries.
Civil Society Participation: The project is implemented by civil society (community associations). Participation is
also open to local, state and national civil society organizations, whose involvement could be very valuable for the
project. This participation could take, among others, the following forms. At the local level, the Rural Workers'
Unions and other representatives of organized civil society could (a) assist in project dissemination, aiding
communities to organize, (b) help identify lands available for purchase, analyze land prices, and prepare land purchase
proposals to be presented to the STU, (c) accompany and evaluate the Project, (d) take part in training of beneficiary
associations and (e) discuss technical assistance and organizational strategy. In addition, civil society is represented
on the LCRD. At the state level, a State Council, with participation from organized civil society representatives,
would follow project implementation, making recommendations to improve Project implementation, and approving
any exceptions required in processing land acquisitions. The State Council would have the authority to veto any
operation that conflicts with Project guidelines. In one participating state in the South, the project could pilot civil
society being ascribed the role of Technical Unit. At the national level, CONTAG and other representatives of
organized civil society will participate in a National Council that would define the overall guidelines for the Project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a) Support for expansion of traditional land reform (i.e., redistribution through expropriation or direct purchase of
land):
* The Federal Government seeks additional and complementary approaches to land reform that are cost effective
and administratively expedient.
e Net fiscal costs per family (including land and productive investments) of the traditional approach are at least 40%
higher than those of the community-based approach (see Annex 5).
b) Development of land rental market to promote general landproductivity and efficiency:
- Rental arrangements are less effective in sustainably increasing incomes of the beneficiaries, because renters
cannot use land as collateral in accessing credit and therefore short to medium-term rental arrangements tend to
preclude longer-term investments.
* Liberalizing land rental markets is not sufficient to achieve efficient rental markets and farm operations
(Deininger, et al. 1993).
c) Supportfor landpurchases without assistance to beneficiariesfor complementary investments:
* Experience under the pilots suggests that lump-sum grants to beneficiaries acquiring land, to support investments
and technical assistance, are critical for achieving significant and sustainable increases in income, and that
community decision-maldng with respect to the use of the grants has been quite sound.
* Grants linked to land purchases that result in viable farm enterprises improve the likelihood that Brazil's rural
financial sector would become increasingly receptive to the idea of providing long-term financing for land
purchases to rural poor communities.
* The reverse option, providing grants to poor communities for development activities not linked to land purchase, is
possible and Brazil already has a large Bank-financed program in place to do this. However, such interventions do
not tend to address the specific needs of the landless, for whom securing access to land is often a critical
component of reducing poverty in a sustainable manner.



Page 9
d) Wait and develop more experience from the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project before proceeding
with new Project.
•  The pilot project is about to be completed, benefiting some 23,000 families in a cost-effective manner, and as
evidence of potential demand for the project, a large number of additional families are already on the waiting list
to purchase land. (Annex 2 and 5).
*  Various evaluation studies have been completed. They provide a strong foundation for the next phase of Bank
support and confirm the overall success of the pilot project in terms of both effective implementation and likely
viability of the large majority of subprojects (Annex 2). Studies also provide valuable input to the design of the
proposed project. Given the nature of investments, final in-depth evaluation of actual impact will only be possible
after several years.
*  Further adjustment to the design of the proposed project, reflecting new experiences, will be made on an ongoing
basis within the framework described in this document.
*  The remaining Northeast states and other states in the South/Southeast are urgently requesting their inclusion in
an expanded community-based land access program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                          Project                   Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress      Objective
(IP)          (DO)
Bank-financed
Land tenure regularization  NE Regional Land Tenure Lmprove. (2593-BR)        S              S
Land Reform                 Land Reform and Poverty Allev. Pilot (4147-BR)    S              S
Community-based Rural       RPAP-Bahia (3917-BR)                              S              S
Development                 RPAP-Ceara (3918-BR)                              S              S
RPAP-Maranhao (4252-BR)                           S              S
RPAP-Paraiba (4251-BR)                            S              S
RPAP-Pemnambuco (4122-BR)                         S              S
RPAP-Piaui (4121-BR)                              S              S
RPAP-Rio Grande do Norte (4120-BR)                S              S
RPAP-Sergipe (3919-BR)                            S              S
Ag. Tech. Development       PRODETAB (4169-BR)                                S              S
Natural Resource Management  Nat. Res. Mgt and Pov. Allev. - Parana (4060-BR)  S             S
Land Management             Land Mgt 1I-Santa Catarina (3160-BR)              S              S
I Land Mgt and Pov. Allev. - RG do Sul (4148-BR)   S              S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The ongoing pilot project (Ln. 4147-BR) has involved extensive evaluation and intensive Bank supervision (Annex 2).
First, the pilot includes a rigorous evaluation study comparing the economic and financial impacts of the community-
based and traditional land reform approaches, carried out by the University of Campinas, Brazil (UNICAMP).
Second, various smaller studies were commissioned and seminars held during 1998 and 1999 to evaluate either
specific aspects of the pilot project or its impact through case studies. Third, very intensive supervision of the pilot
project by the Bank has aided in evaluating implementation experience and extracting lessons for immediate
adjustments to the project. Important lessons have been learned through a combination of supervision, international
and national seminars, studies and workshops. The project is part of the Bank's Compact for Rural Development and
has received more than average supervision support, with more than 70% of the supervision time provided by staff of
the Bank's Brasilia and Recife Offices. Besides formal supervision visits from Bank Headquarters, project staff in the



Page 10
field offices have made over 30 visits to participating states since project inception. Finally, the pilot project has been
evaluated by private consultants and universities. The results have revealed that the community-based approach of the
Cedula da Terra works effectively as an additional and complementary approach to expediting land access for the
rural poor. As detailed below, land quality is adequate, land prices are lower than under more traditional approaches,
self-selection is quite satisfactory and newly acquired farms show favorable expectations for financial and economic
viability. Equally important, beneficiaries should be able to generate sufficient earnings to service their debt
obligations and significantly raise both incomes and living standards. The following are summary assessments of
implementation progress and impact to date.
*  The project has created an agile and effective method of settling landless rural families. The community-based
approach expedites land acquisition, with the entire process - from identification to purchase - typically taking
less than 90 days.
*  Self-selection for project participation has proven effective in pinpointing the landless rural poor; the vast
majority of beneficiaries have household incomes and characteristics consistent with the target population.
•  Most properties acquired under the pilot project have been small, relative to traditional land reform settlements,
ranging in size from 15 to 30 families. Groups of less than 10 families are likely to face difficulties in forming an
association board and the resources available to them tend to be insufficient to carry out critical investments. On
the other hand, groups of over 50 families can be difficult to manage.
* To date, communities have consistently chosen good quality land at costs that represent significant savings
relative to traditional land reform and without upward pressure on land prices. This result is quite striking, given
the often low quality of agricultural lands in the Northeast. In drought-prone areas, the pilot project is focussing
on ensuring sufficient access to water resources and STUs are avoiding approval for land purchases in areas
where irrigation either does not exist or cannot be rapidly put into place.
*  Land prices have been favorable, with lands under Cedula da Terra costing about 28% less per family than the
present value of initial expropriation prices in the Northeast. Since expropriated owners often obtain additional
compensation through subsequent judicial actions, the final cost of expropriated lands can be as much as three
times the initial compensation amount.
-  Project implementation through community associations has been successfiil overall. The design of the project
places beneficiaries in the driver's seat, and the success of community associations in mobilizing members,
selecting land for purchase, designing a productive subproject, and implementing it has been very impressive.
Although many beneficiary associations were formed several years ago and are well-organized, others were
formed only recently. Experience has shown that these more recent associations do need special support to build
their human and social capital, while encouraging and fostering their autonomy.
* The great majority of subprojects promise to be financially and economically viable. Case studies confirm that in
the more favorable agro-climatic regions, financial returns are likely to exceed estimates made at appraisal. In the
semi-arid Sertao, financial estimates will likely be reached in many cases where adequate access to water is
available. Annual family incomes in typical cases are expected to rise from previous levels of around R$1,400 to
a level between two and four times as high within three to six years, net of required land loan repayments (see
also Annex 5).
*  Expanded technical assistance (up to 8% of land loan) during land purchase and subsequent production planning
over the first three years will help associations in the identification of alternative available properties and possibly
in the negotiation process. Enhanced technical assistance will further increase the likelihood of financial and
economic success of subprojects.
*  Streamlined approval of complementary investment subprojects, such that funds are immediately deposited with
the community association following land acquisition and disbursed once a subproject proposal is presented and
approved, will eliminate unnecessary delays.
*  Given the likely economic and financial success of the vast majority of community groups, repayment of land
loans appears likely. Still, further measures are important to reduce the risk of default on land loans.



Page 1 1
A strong MIS is a key instrument for monitoring implementation of a project which involves numerous
community groups across different states. Both the MIS and continuous evaluation activities are critical to
facilitate the identification of problems and early inclusion of improvements and adaptations.
In sumnmary, in a relatively short period of time, the community-based mechanism tested under the pilot project has
proven to be agile and cost-effective in increasing land access for the rural poor. The most important modifications to
the project, based on the aforementioned evaluation and supervision findings, include the following: (a) technical
assistance from STUs to community associations has been strengthened during land identification and subsequent
negotiation, and special attention is paid to the needs of newly formed groups for closer support; (b) flow of funds has
been streamlined so that complementary investment resources are available immediately upon completion of land
purchase; (c) heightened attention s paid to availability of water resources in drought-prone regions of the
participating states; (d) financial terms for land purchase have been revised to reduce the risk of default on land loans;
(e) as a rule, only lands not subject to expropriation will be considered for purchase under the community-based
mechanism; and (f information campaigns and other forms of dissemination are being emphasized, to bolster
understanding of the concepts and mechanisms of the community-based approach to land reform.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Throughout the second half of the 1990's, there has been growing pressure on the Brazilian Government to act rapidly
to address issues of land access. In response, in early 1996, the Government upgraded the sectoral institutions,
designated a Federal Minister for Land Reform (transformed into Agrarian Development in late 1999) while steadily
increasing the Federal land reform budget (e.g., 1995: R$1.4 b.; 1996: R$1.5 b.; 1997: R$2.3 b.; 1998: R$2.0 b.). In
1999, however, the budget proposal for land reform had to be reduced significantly (R$ 1.4 b) in the context of drastic
overall fiscal adjustment. Combined with increased expectations of implementation, this reduction makes more
important Government's pursuit of more cost-effective complementary mechanisms for land access, such as the
community-based approach of the proposed project.
In August 1999, the Federal Government prepared and submitted a comprehensive development strategy - Avanwa
Brasil - Plano Plurianuall PPA 2000/3 - which determines Federal spending priorities for the next four years. The
PPA sets forth six overall objectives that drive the national development strategy, (a) consolidation of economic
stability with sustained growth, (b) promotion of sustainable development directed at employment generation and
creation of income opportunities, (c) fight against poverty and promotion of citizenship and social inclusion, (d) the
consolidation of democracy and promotion of human rights, (e) reduction of inter-regional inequalities and (1)
promotion of the rights of minorities and victims of discrimination. Funds directly allocated to the Ministry of
Agrarian Development over the four-year period total R$14.1 b., of which R$9.5 b. (67%) will strengthen family
agriculture via the National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture (PRONAF). The remaining funds ($4.6 b.) are
earnarked for financing new rural land acquisitions and strengthening existing settlements (R$4.5 b.) and related
support activities (e.g., mapping, MIS) and research (R$0.1 b.).
For the Government, the community-based land reform approach provides a cost-effective means of responding
rapidly to demands of the rural poor for increased access to land, as a complement to traditional interventions such as
expropriation (Annex 2). The proposed project was designed in close consultation with the Minister for Agrarian
Development, who personally promoted the pilot initiative in the Northeast. The Governors of participating Northeast
and Southem/Southeastern States have enthusiastically endorsed the project concept throughout project preparation.
New legislation, such as Ley Complementar No. 93 of February 1998, which established the National Land Fund and
the revision of the Rural Land Tax (ITR), which significantly increases taxation of nonproductive holdings, further
confirms the Government's resolve to make resources available to implement sustained agrarian reform activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
As the principal international partner engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to
address rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well-placed to support expansion of a
community-based approach to land reform in the region. The Bank contributes its experience with the highly
successful community-based Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs) in all Northeastern States and the land
reform pilots, both of which served as templates for developing implementation arrangements. Bank participation
would also make available international experience of past and ongoing programs of land reform, and would ensure



Page 12
the sound international quality standards of monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment. The Bank has also become
actively involved in land and natural resource management issues in the Southern States, and will therefore also be
well-placed to assist the Southern State governments in introducing the new approach to land reform.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (see Annex 5):
* Detailed economic and financial analyses were prepared to assess the quantitative effects of the proposed project
in terms of (a) the overall efficiency gains in the form of increased aggregate agricultural production; and (b) the
income effect for the beneficiaries. This analysis was based on five representative models of typical family farms
to be established under the project, representing the different geographic regions within the participating states.
The analysis provides both the economic justification for the project and the basis for quantitative monitoring of
project impacts. Three of the five models (i.e., Semi-Arid, Meio-Norte, Zona da Mata) are updates from the
economic analysis of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Loan 4147-BR), since these models
are equally representative of the Northeast States to be covered under the proposed project. The substantially
different conditions in the South/Southeast, where the community-based approach will be piloted, are represented
by two additional models (PR-North and PR-Southwest). The farm models were independently validated by
economic simulations of farming systems representative of those expected under the project in four participating
states - Bahia, Ceari, Maranhao and Pemambuco - and by the findings of several evaluation studies.
- The various farm models produce Internal Economic Rates of Return (lERRs) ranging from 24% to 58%. The
overall project IERR is estimated as 35%. Project economic returns are robust in a range of alternative scenarios.
Economic simulations on representative farming systems broadly concur with the results of the farm models.
Simulations outside the semi-arid zone show perspectives of medium-term annual household income net of debt
service obligations of R$3,600 to R$5,400, and in some cases significantly higher, relative to a pre-project
household income of R$1,400. In the semi-arid zone, most families would be expected to attain annual incomes
of about R$3,000 to R$4,000 in normal years. Drought in the semi-arid zone places substantial temporary risk of
downward pressure on household incomes, underscoring the importance of irrigation investments and careful
evaluation of water access and irrigation potential in new purchase proposals.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Annual net incomes of participating families are expected to rise from about R$1,400 to R$3,000-8,000
(including consumption of subsistence products) during the repayment period of the land loan, demonstrating the
full financial viability of the family farms established under the project. Analysis of various alternative scenarios
confirms the robustness of farm financial viability.
Fiscal impact:
*  The estimated initial fiscal cost per family of community-based land reform in the Northeast is R$10,383,
compared with the pre-adjudication cost of R$17,343 under traditional approaches. The sources of cost savings
are: (a) lower land purchase prices resulting from negotiations between willing sellers and buyers; (b) lower
investment costs due to the community-driven design and community participation in implementation; and (c)
the actual repayment of the land loan.
*  The proposed project would substantially reduce the net budgetary cost per family (including land and
productive investments) participating in the land reform program. Thus, the project is expected to enable the
Government to reach its targets at a net budgetary saving vis-a-vis what it would have spent if it had attempted
to reach these goals exclusively through traditional expropriation and direct purchase. If the proposed project
were to benefit 16,700 families per year (as proposed), the expected savings would be around R$ 116 million per
year.
3. Technical:
* Detailed farm models confirm the feasibility of the establishment of family farms as foreseen under the project.
The implementation of community subprojects will follow the extensive experience from the RPAPs and Land
Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot projects. Communities can receive technical assistance (up to 8% of the



Page 13
land purchase price) to improve land productivity. Technical assistance (up to 8% of subproject cost) is also
available for the preparation and implementation of the complementary investment subprojects, including
community development training in the areas of organization and social capital formation.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
*  In those participating states where RPAPs or the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project are
currently operating, STUs are now demonstrating satisfactory ability and agility in processing community
proposals for land purchases and complementary investments, following the adoption of streamlined procedures
(Annex 2). In the three Southern States where Land Management Projects are present, STUs have also proven to
be adept at expediting community proposals for natural resource management Two financial agents which are
likely to participate in the project (Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste) have effectively administered fumds
for Bank-financed operations in the Northeast and in other parts of Brazil. Together with the State Land
Institutes, STUs have demonstrated the capacity to assess the negotiated land purchases and appraise community
complementary investment subprojects, in both cases following the guidelines set forth in the project operational
manual.
b. Project management:
-  Day to day management of the project is fully delegated to the respective STUs in the participating states, which
have a proven track record in the implementation of the RPAP projects in the Northeast and other Bank-financed
projects in the South.
5. Social:
-  Beneficiary targeting would occur at two levels: (a) through eligibility criteria established for participation in the
project (landless rural workers or miniffundistas with agricultural background); and (b) through a transparent
process of project approval at the level of the STUs, which will share information with rural workers' unions.
*  It is expected that under the proposed project, most existing communities would purchase lands that are located
close to their previous homes or at least in the same geographic region. This would help retain the social
community structure and avoid relocation over large distances.
-  The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project. Bank-supported operations and
studies in Northeast Brazil show the strong correlation between the problems and needs of rural women and those
of producers and family units in general. Interestingly enough, they also show that community leaders in the
Northeast favor women's participation due to their willingness to provide assistance and services, receptivity to
change, and greater likelihood of repaying debt. This project will seek to ensure that women's activities (both
traditional and innovative) are included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care
facilities; to target groups and activities in which female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical
assistance for women's subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the
project and its benefits.
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category 1 I A    [XI B   I I C
* Because of their relatively small size, most community subprojects would not have a significant effect on the
environment The project would, however, ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement measures, to
prevent certain types of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing any such negative impacts. The
Project Operational Manual would specify key environmental criteria and screening and enforcement procedures
to be followed.
* Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal presented by the community
associations would include a simple environmental assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard
format. For standard subproject types, environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the
responsibility of the STU. Technical assistance would be contracted for exceptional subproject types, for which



Page 14
technical standards have not yet been developed.
*  A technical evaluation would confirm that the farm size of each subproject is appropriate for sustainable fdmily
agriculture. To the extent that the project benefits smallholders who, due to the small size of their current lots,
would otherwise practice unsustainable farming techniques in fragile zones (such as the Northeastern semi-arid
areas), the project will reduce land degradation.
*  The project will explicitly exclude the purchase of existing or proposed protected lands or areas with primary
forest or with land claims by indigenous people, and areas adjacent to them. Specifically, the Amazon region is
excluded from the project.
*  In contrast to conventional land reform projects, which are often located at or near the agricultural frontier due to
lower land costs, land purchases under the proposed project will likely occur well within traditional agricultural
areas where services are available and markets are near. Therefore, the project is consistent with an overall
approach to reduce the pressure on protected areas and primary forests by intensifying land use within the
agricultural frontier.
7. Participatory approach:
Identification/   Implementation    Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups - all land purchase and
complementary investment subprojects will be identified and  COL               COL              COL
carried out by community associations.
Intermediary NGOs - may provide technical assistance and    IS, CON        IS, CON, COL       IS, CON,
facilitate information dissemination about the project to                                       COL
community associations.
State/Local government - will consult community associations  IS, CON, COL  IS, CON, COL      IS, CON,
and NGOs in the planning of project activities, technical                                       COL
assistance and review of implementation.
Note: information sharing (IS), consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Financial analysis confirms the sustainability of the farm operations established under the project. In fact, income
increases are sufficient for significant savings and investments that would allow additional medium- and long-term
income increases. Additional factors favoring the sustainability of project benefits include:
*  Incentives for self-selection of suitable beneficiaries include the requirement to repay the land loan.
*  High degree of community participation in identification, preparation, contracting, implementing and supervising
subprojects.
* Participation in counteapart funding by beneficiaries is likely to ensure a high level of sustainability of subproject
benefits.



Page 15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk            Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Project Outputs to    * Failure of targeting  Low          * Establish transparent beneficiary selection
Development           mechanisms would                        mechanism; refine selection process with
Objectives            prevent project from                    representation from rural worker unions and
achieving the desired                  other social groups.
poverty impact
* Failure of financial    Moderate     * Detailed farm models and early experiences
sustainability of                      confirm financial viability of most new
established family farms               farms.
Financial package for beneficiaries is
designed relatively generously.
Project Components  * Government commitment  Moderate      * Sound project design and fast project
to Outputs            weakened by escalating                  preparation to rapidly show results.
rural violence,                     * Flexibility in the financial package for
undermining a                          beneficiaries allows adjustment to changing
constructive approach to               political conditions.
land reform and                     * The project is based on a fully decentralized
strengthening resistance               design and does not depend on participation
within the Government                  by federal sector agencies after
bureaucracy                            implementation begins.
* Poor implementation     Moderate     * Availability of technical assistance within the
capacity of rural                      financing of community subprojects.
communities                         * Information dissemination on land available
for purchase through State agencies and rural
worker unions.
* Assistance for communities in purchase
negotiations through rural worker unions.
* Deterioration in        Low          * Continued policy dialogue by Bank
macroeconomic stability                Management and Bank support on macro
could inflate land prices              policy issues.
(due to speculation) and            * The recently approved reform of rural
significantly increase                 property taxes (ITR) should help to depress
project costs                          land prices.
* Disruption of the efficient  Substantial   * Full authority is given to States to withdraw
and timely flow of funds               from their sub-accounts within the limits
from Federal to state                  established by Annual Operating Plans.
Government levels                   * Advance deposits for land purchases will be
made at the start of each financial year.
*  Insufficient land      Moderate     *  Recent changes in the rural land tax (ITR)
available at affordable                and a 50% decrease in land prices have
prices in the Southern                 stimulated the sale of non -productive land
States                                 in all regions of Brazil. However, high land
prices may still hamper effective demand.
Overall Project                               Moderate
Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There is active debate among interest groups at the national level in Brazil about whether land purchase by poor
farmers is less desirable than expropriation and subsidized land distribution. On the other hand, the approach has had a
positive reception in the Northeast region, based on consultations with community associations and rural workers'
representatives during project design. Furthermore, the proposed project (via the pilot experience) has been shown to
lead to a market price that is lower than the compensation under traditional approaches, with better lands being
secured and increased technical support. The community-based approach may be more controversial in the Southern
States, where there is a strong tradition of activism among the rural poor in pursuit of land through expropriation. The
Project team has discussed the community-based approach with representatives of rural organizations active in the
South. While there is still resistance at the level of some of these organizations' leaderships, members at the field
level are interested in participating in the project. Additionally, CONTAG has been involved in the preparation of the
project Operational Manual to be used in all regions and will participate together with its state organizations
(FETAGs) and with local (municipal) rural workers' unions in different aspects of project implementation. The
project will also pilot state coordination by civil society or in partnership with STUs.
In order to diffuse political controversy surrounding the pilot project, as a rule the project will not finance the
purchase of lands that are legally subject to expropriation. In rare cases, and with representation from the social
movements, the project state council could agree on exceptions to this rule, under criteria to be specified in the project
Operational Manual. Project councils at the state and federal level include representatives from the social movements.
They will remain welcome to participate in the project even if some groups at this time choose not to take their seats
on the project councils.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
• The National Technical Unit has been established;
•  Formal agreements between the Federal Government and at least three Participating States for the execution of
the Project have been signed, and each relevant STU has been established;
* The Operational Manual and the Management Information System have been adopted by the Ministry of Agrarian
Development and by all Participating States with signed formal agreements for the execution of the Project;
- Approval by the Bank of the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of project implementation;
* Agreernents between the Ministry of Agrarian Development and the Financial Agents on the admninistration of
land and Bank funds have become effective;
* Confirmation that an amount not less than US$12 million equivalent has been committed and is available for the
purchase of land.



Page 17
H. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies
Luis 0. Coirolo             John Redwood, Director                   Gobind T. Nankani
Task Manager                Sector Management Unit                       Director
Environmentafly and Socially Sustainable  Brazil - Country Management Unit
Development               Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Page 18
Annex 1
Brazil
Project Design Summary
Brazil: Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Narrative Summary           Key Performance       Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Rural Poverty          *  Reduction in poverty    *  Comparison of census    *  Relevance of poverty
Alleviation                level of participating    indicators or LSMS-type    indicators for actual
rural households          data for rural poverty     prevalence of rural
_________________________  ________________________ _     poverty
Project Development                                                             (Project Development
Objective:                                                                      Objectives to Program
Objectives):
*  Increase in incomes of    *  Incomes of families  *  Project Impact          *  Financial and social
rural poor through        participating in the       Evaluation to be           sustainability of land
improved access to land   project in comparison      undertaken by the          and community
and participation in      with control groups and    Ministry of Agrarian       subprojects
community subprojects     pre-project income         Development, with       *  Adequate development
levels                    baseline assessment and    of implementation
follow up study of        capacity by
with/without project       community
.  Increase in agricultural   *  Net economic benefits of  population in target     associations
output of lands included  increased agricultural     group, focusing on (a)
in the project            production                 beneficiary selection and  *  Maintenance of
targeting; and (b)        macroeconomic
*  Piloting of community-   *  Pilot program tested and  income/production          stability, for land to
approach to land reform   evaluated                  effects                    reflect real value and
in Southern Brazil                                                              not be used as
.  MIS updated monthly        speculative asset
. Annual Projec*  Efficient and timely
.  Annual Project Reviews    . flow of funds from
Federal to State
*  Supervision Reports        Government levels
Outputs:                  Output Indicators:                                    (Outputs to Project
Development Objectives)
*  Establishment of family   *  Family farms established  *  Monitoring and     *  Effective targeting of
farms on lands            for about 50,000           reporting by State         project funding to poor
purchased by               participating families    Technical Units of         beneficiaries
communities with                                     participating States
project funds                                                                .  Financial success and
viability of subprojects
*  Implementation of land-  *  Subprojects
value improving           implemented covering
community subprojects     about 50,000 families.
*  Information and analysis                          *  Coordination by
that allows the                                      Ministry of Agrarian
evaluation of the pilot                              Development
and its replicability and,
if indicated, measures to
broaden program
implementation



Page 19
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each    Monitoring and Evaluation  (from Components to
components:                component)                                            Outputs)
*  Funds for land purchase   *  Land purchases for    *  Monitoring and          *  Strong Government
committed                  communities of a total of  reporting by State         commitment may be
about 50,000 families      Technical Units of         affected if escalating
approved and financed.     participating States       rural violence
(EUR 173.7 million)                                   undermines a
Ministry of Agrarian       constructive approach
*  Funds for community     *  Subprojects for             Development and State     to land reform or
subprojects (investment    communities of a total of  Technical Units of         resistance builds up in
and technical assistance)  about 50,000 families      participating States       Government
approved and disbursed.                               bureaucracy
(EUR 214.3 million)
*  Strong implementation
*  Technical Assistance    *  Seminars, training                                     capacity by
and Training at the        courses for community                                 communities
Community Level            associations and STUs,
information campaign to                           *  Macroeconomic
increase project                                      stability such that (a)
awareness.                                            land prices are not
(EUR 13.3 million)                                    impacted by
speculation and (b)
.  Project Administration,   *  Field supervision and                                project costs do not
Monitoring and             overall coordination of                               significantly increase.
Supervision                Project activities.
*  (EUR 26.8 million)                                 *  Efficient and timely
flow of funds from
*  Impact Evaluation and    *  Support for NEAD and                                  Federal to state
Dissemination              comprehensive impact                                  Government levels
evaluation of project.
*  (EUR 8.3 million)                                  *  Sufficient land
available at affordable
prices in the Southern
States



Page 20
Annex 2
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Evaluation of The Brazilian Experience with Community-Based Land Reform
1.     Background
Twenty-one percent of the Brazilian population lives in rural areas. Using a poverty line of R$65 per month per capita
and based on the 1996 PNAD household survey, 52% of the rural population is poor. Forty-eight percent of all of
Brazil's poor (16.5 million people) live in the rural areas. Of these rural poor, 69% live in the Northeast, followed by
the Southeast (16%), the South (9%), and the Center-West (4%). The heads of poor rural households have extremely
low levels of schooling (52% less than one year, and another 30% up to four years). They work mostly as self-
employed or informal employees, they have not migrated, and they have typically held their employment or
occupation for many years.'
The 1996 Agriculture Census shows 4.5 million rural households with insufficient land for subsistence (Table 1).
More than half of these are minifundiarios. While these data do not allow a direct relation, almost all of the 16.5
million rural poor are likely to be found in the 4.5 million rural households with no or little land.
Table 1: Rural Households in B , by Land Tenure Status, 1996
Number of  Smallholder    Renter        Sharecropper    Occupant       Worker        Total
Households                                  ___
North            217,036         2,726           5,236        69,354       53,999      348,351
Northeast       1,201,739      150,441         180,116       472,289      344,720     2,349,305
Center-West       98,873         4,801           2,014        14,023       97,247      216,958
Southeast        448,138        23,499          32,148       33,867       291,314      828,966
South            488,698        46,776          48,254       58,088       130,415      772,231
Total           2,454,484      228             267,768      647,621       917,695     4,515,811
A strategy for addressing rural poverty has to include several elements directed at different population groups. First,
further migration into urban areas seems inevitable, considering the high incidence of poverty, the large absolute
number of very small frms, and the relatively low agricultural growth potential in non-irrigated areas of the
Northeast. More training and education opportunities for the rural poor appear to be the most critical policy variable
for facilitating this absorption into other sectors of the economy. An important preoccupation of policy makers is to
maintain rural-urban migration at manageable levels. Second, the commercial agriculture sector can absorb wage
labor, favoring those with at least some basic education. Further expansion of irrigated areas in the Northeast will
create more such opportunities. Third, for those who stay in rural areas, productive investments can significantly
improve living conditions. Physical investments and services for poor farmers (e.g., intensification through small-
scale irrigation projects or community-based land reform) can efficiently increase labor productivity and incomes and
reduce migration pressures. Fourth, there is a group of rural poor who will not be able to benefit from opportunities in
commercial agriculture or small-scale intensification, or from migration. Members of this group are typically older,
often widows as heads of household, and farm in poorly endowed areas. This group is 'trapped' in extreme poverty
with little viable future in agriculture and faces considerable barriers in finding off-farm employment. For this group,
a social safety net is critical to assure a basic decent living standard.
Land reform can make a quantitatively important contribution to a rural poverty reduction strategy. At the recent rate
of 100,000 families settled per year, land reform could in five years reach 2.5 million people, or 15% of Brazil's rural
poor (assuming five individuals per household). Considering that land reform creates a sustainable source of income
for the beneficiaries, its cost compares favorably with parameters relating to alternative strategies. The cost of simple
urban housing with basic public services in a mid-sized Northeastern city would typically be R$8,000-10,000. The
investment cost per industrial employment has been above R$30,000. This compares to a cost of community-based
land reform of about R$ 10,000 per family.
Due to its productive and economically viable nature, land reform is also attractive compared to the alternative of
lThe rural North is not covered by this survey.



Page 21
investmnents into a stronger rural safety net. If, hypothetically, the cost of about R$10,000 per family was converted
into a perpetual income support (using a discount rate of 16%), this would be insufficient to achieve the same
household income gains expected under the project. Under the proposed project, the same fiscal expense will allow
most beneficiary families to reach an income level above the poverty line.
Brazil has one of the most unequal distributions of land ownership in the world (Deininger and Squire, 1996).
Limited access to land and extreme inequality in land ownership are central factors contributing to rural poverty in
Brazil. Moreover, studies undertaken in Northeast Brazil, and confirmed by the 1995/6 Agriculture Census, have
shown that family farms are more efficient and labor-intensive than large farms, thus demonstrating that the skewed
land distribution limits agricultural productivity and employment. This finding is consistent with studies in other rural
labor surplus economies that show significant efficiency gains in family farms compared to large estates.
Smallholders' access to credit is often limited by the absence of undisputed titles, creating a further bias in favor of
large farms. Rental and sharecropping arrangements are common but without security of tenancy and access to credit
do not provide the same benefits as land ownership.
Economic changes over recent years have made land reform an investment that can reduce poverty and inequality at a
relatively modest fiscal cost while at the same time improving the efficiency of the rural economy. Many of the
economic distortions that have historically contributed to land concentration have been alleviated. Agricultural credit
subsidies have been cut drastically, and inflation is at a historic low. The rural land tax (ITR) has been modified to
significantly raise taxation on unproductive land. These changes have reduced the financial attractiveness of land
holdings for non-productive purposes and therefore increased the supply of land and reduced its price. Particularly in
the Northeast, large tracts of land are available for sale at low prices by owners, as well as from banks that hold land
as collateral for defaulted farm debt. With labor-intensive production systems (partly subsistence, partly market-
oriented), small farmers can significantly increase production on these lands and thus both increase their family
income and repay the cost of the land. In the South, higher land prices and higher wage levels create somewhat
different economic conditions, although there are still significant areas available where land reform increase both
efficiency and family farm income.
Historically, land reform in Brazil focused on Government-administered approaches through expropriation with
compensation. These approaches had limited success due to long delays, high costs, the possibility for abuse, and
political conflict. Also, repayment for the cost of land expropriation and complementary investments by those
resettled (as required by law) almost never occurred. However, the speed and effectiveness of the expropriation
process has been greatly improved recently. The Cardoso administration has greatly accelerated the pace of land
reform in Brazil. From 1995 through the end of 1999, some 372,500 families were resettled, by far exceeding
combined resettlements under the previous three administrations since 1985.
The challenges associated with the traditional approach to land reform led the Government to explore complementary
approaches to improve land access. For example, INCRA launched a public land auction in Rio Grande do Sul that
seeks to reduce the costs of land acquisition and expedite the creation of new settlements. Also, Projeto Casulo has
already benefited 1,300 families in the North and Northeast by providing land for commercial agricultural purposes in
peri-urban areas. Finally, the Government has piloted a community-based approach to land reform - first under the
CearA Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (Ln 3918-BR) and, more recently, under the Cedula da Terra project (Ln
4147-BR) - where beneficiaries negotiate the purchase of land directly with owners. By creating new options for land
access through credit provision, conmmunity-based land reform increases the menu of available options for agrarian
policy and the scope of land reform, enabling it, if well implemented, to benefit thousands of families in rural areas.
II.    Implementation Experience with Community-based Land Reform
The community-based land reform approach was initially piloted under the Bank-financed Ceara Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project (Ln 3918-BR) in 1996/97 at a total cost of R$4.I million for land purchases and R$3.9 million for
complementary investments. Families financed land purchases over 15 years, with five years of grace, at the
government established long-term interest rate (TJLP) plus one percent with funds of the State Government. The
complementary investments were Bank-financed on a matching grant basis with a 10% beneficiary contribution either
in cash or in kind. Under this pilot, 44 community associations, with a total of 688 families, acquired a total of 23,377
hectares of land, at a per family cost of R$6,083 and a per hectare cost of R$179. With average complementary
investments of R$5,574 per family, total per family costs were R$11,657.
Given the promising results of community-based land reform under the Ceara Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (both
in terms of administrative and cost efficiency), the Brazilian Government made its first-ever request to the Bank for a



Page 22
free-standing Land Reform Project, which culminated in the Projeto da C&dula da Terra (Land Reform and Poverty
Alleviation Project, 4147-BR) in five Northeastern States (Bahia, Ceari, Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco).
Cedula da Terra combines a community-based approach to land acquisition with a matching grant mechanism to
finance complementary investments toward increasing land productivity and smallholder incomes.
The pilot project, Cedula da Terra, combines elements of the successful community-based Rural Poverty Alleviation
Projects in Northeast Brazil with an innovative community-based component for land purchases by the landless or
near-landless rural poor. Five states comprise the project area: Bahia, Ceara, Maranhgo, Minas Gerais and
Pernambuco. Under the project, rural families come together to form community associations with the objective of
identifying suitable land for purchase and then negotiating the sale of the land with willing land owners. Following
title clearance from the STU/State Land Institute, these associations are eligible for financing of the land purchase
through Federal Government counterpart funds. Loans for land purchase under the pilot project were initially for ten
years, with a three year grace period, at the Government established TJLP. Communities then determine internally the
allocation of land among participating families and the corresponding payment obligations.
The total cost of the pilot project is US$150.0 million, of which US$45.0 million corresponds to contributions by the
Federal Government for land purchases (Table 2). Following the land purchase, the community associations are
eligible to present proposals for on-land complementary investments, under grant financing fromn Federal, State and
Bank sources, including a beneficiary contribution of at least 10%/o of subproject cost, in cash or in-kind. Technical
assistance and community support are also financed through the pilot project, as well as a comprehensive impact
evaluation that seeks to draw important lessons concerning the pace, targeting and cost effectiveness of the
community-based approach to land reform.
Table 2: Components and Associated Costs, Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
Component                         Category        Indicative     % of
Cost (US$M)    Total
(A) Land Purchase Account Qand purchases for   Physical (Land)             45.0    30.0%
15,000 rural poor families
(B) Community Subprojects (small grants to     Physical (Civil             84.3    56.2%
communities for investments, technical assistance and  Works, Goods and
start-up)                                      Materials)
(C) Community development support and          Institution building         3.9      2.6%
strengthening (technical assistance and training at the
State level)
(D) Project administration, supervision and    Project                     10.1      6.7%
monitoring (State level)                       Management
(E) Impact evaluation and dissemination by the  Other                       6.7      4.5%
Federal Government
TOTAL                 150.0    100%
The pilot project sought to resettle some 15,000 families over a three-year period following effectiveness (September
12, 1997). For the first 9,000 families, about 225,000 hectares were purchased through negotiations between
community associations and willing landowners, with implementation strongest in Bahia, CearA, and Maranhao (Table
3). Cost per beneficiary family averaged R$4,759 and average land cost per hectare was R$193.  In total, some
23,000 families are expected to benefit under the project with purchases of about 617,000 hectares. In regard to
Component B, an average of R$4,114 has been available for each family resettled for the purpose of complementary
subproject investments.



Page 23
Table 3: Land Reform Pilot Project, Implementation Summary for the first 9,000 families
State     #Families  Total Land   Ha/Fam    Total Value        R$/Ha       R$/Fam
Area (Ha)               (R$million)
Bahia             2,429       44,986       18.5          10.58        235.1       4,355
Ceari             2,597       84,945       32.7          12.72        149.7       4,897
Maranhlo          1,588       43,483       27.4           5.34        124.8       3,419
Minas Gerais      1,044       25,260       24.2           5.13        203.0       4,913
Pernambuco        1,435       25,996        18.1          9.51        365.8       6,627
TOTAL             9,093      224,670       24.7          40.36        192.6       4,759
Source: NEAD, INCRA
II.    Evaluation of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Loan 4147-BR)
The extensive evaluations conducted and intensive Bank supervision of the pilot project reveal that the community-
based mechanism works as an alternative and complementary approach to expediting land access for the rural poor.
Thorough evaluation is an integral component of the pilot project. This approach ensures that lessons are learned and
reflected in ongoing adjustments to the pilot and in the proposed project. In fact, various lessons from the ongoing
evaluation have been incorporated into both the ongoing pilot project and the proposed project. Evaluation is being
done at three levels (see Table 4 for list of completed and ongoing evaluation studies):
1. The Pilot Project includes a rigorous evaluation study comparing the economic and financial impacts between the
community-based and the traditional land reform approach. This study - being carried out by the University of
Campinas, Brazil (UNICAMP) - included a preliminary study in late 1998/early 1999, visiting more than one-
half of lands purchased under the project and applying a comprehensive questionnaire to a representative sample
of 222 households benefiting from the community-based land reform approach. Results from this preliminary
study are applicable at the aggregate level (i.e., the five participating states), while an expanded sampling effort
will be conducted in late 2000. Results from the expanded study will afford disaggregation to the individual state
level. Parallel to the survey study described above, UNICAMP drew on data from the 1997 National Household
Survey (PNAD) amassed for 3,413 households which share the characteristics of the target population for land
reform (i.e., head of household > 18 years and <60 years, agricultural laborer, with household income < R$240
per month). These data were then analyzed and compared with data on Cedula da Terra beneficiaries to evaluate
the effectiveness of the self-selection targeting mechanism. Under the proposed project, this thorough and
rigorous impact evaluation will be continued and expanded to newly included states.
2. Second, various smaller studies were commissioned and seminars held during 1998 and 1999 to evaluate either
specific aspects of the Pilot project or evaluate the impact of the project by means of case studies (Table 4). Most
of the studies have been completed and form the basis of adjustments incorporated into the proposed project.
These studies and seminars included, among others:
*  Detailed case studies of subprojects in different regions of Ceara and Bahia. These case studies included a
qualitative assessment of project implementation and a quantitative model of the production system adopted
or likely to be adopted in the selected cases.
*  Analysis of the functioning of community associations for implementation of the project and other social
aspects.
* Analysis of the financial structure set-up for the project, the likelihood of and measures to increase the
likelihood of timely loan repayment.
*  The potential impact of community-based land reform on land markets and land prices.
*  Anialysis of the total target population for land reform in Brazil.
*  Four seminars were held to discuss the ongoing implementation of Cedula da Terra
In July 1998, the Ministry of Land Reform and the Bank co-sponsored an international conference which
spanned a wide range of topics including (i)the theoretical foundations linking wealth distribution,



Page 24
poverty and growth, (ii) empirical evidence on these issues from different countries and (iii) specific
applications and experiences, in particular with land reform, in different countries.
* In November 1998, the MDA sponsored - in conjunction with the State of Ceara, Banco do Nordeste
and IICA -- a seminar entitled "Agrarian Reform and Sustainable Development" in Fortaleza, Ceara,
with wide participation from NGOs, various governmrent agencies and the Bank.
* August 1999, the Bank sponsored a workshop, attended by the National Confederation of Rural Workers
(CONTAG), leading Northeast rural development NGOs, church agencies, RPAP technical personnel,
and Bank staff; to explore ways to leverage greater participation by certain sectors (state federations and
NGOs) in the ongoing RPAP and Land Reforrn and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project.
* In December 1999, participating states and the Bank held a seminar to review and discuss the
preliminary findings of the UNICAMP study of Cedula da Terra. The study looked at the beneficiary
selection process, the characteristics of the settlements under the Cedula da Terra and the economic and
financial viability of the settlements.
Table 4: Evaluation studies, Cedula da Terra
Completed Studies:                                            Author(s)
1. Land Reform Policy Options                                 Buainain et al. 1998
2. Rural Land Prices and the Impact of the Cedula da Terra    Reydon and Plata 1998
3. Social Relations on Land Reform Settlements                Martins de Carvalho 1998
4. Socioeconomic Profile of Cdula da Terra Beneficiaries      Souza Filho et al 1999
5. Demad for Land Access in Brazil                            David 1999
6. Agrarian Reform and Development of Family Agriculture      Gomes et al 1999
7. Financial Options for Land Reform                          Troster 1998
8. Evaluation of Cedula da Terra in Bahia                     Garcia Filho et al. 1998
9. Social Dimensions of the Project                           Navarro 1998
10. Case Studies of RPAP-Ceara pilot land reform component    Danilo 1998
Works in Progress:
1. Technical Assistance for Land Reform Settements            Lopes
| 2. Small-scale Agriculture in Brazil                         DIPES/IPEA
i 3. Regional Impacts of Land Reform                           REDES
3. The very intensive supervision of the Pilot project has aided in evaluating implementation experience and
extracting lessons for immediate adjustmnents to the project. Important lessons have been learned through
supervision, international and national seminars, studies and workshops. The project is part of the Bank's
Compact for Rural Development and has received more than average supervision support. Some 82 staff weeks
have been used in project supervision over a 27-month period, well above the average for other projects in Brazil,
and with more than 70% of supervision time provided by staff of the Bank's Brasilia and Recife Offices. Besides
formal supervision from Bank Headquarters, project staff in the field offices have made some 30 visits to
participating states since project inception. The Brazil Country Management Unit (CMU) Director, the Regional
Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean, and other Bank Directors (including from the Africa region)
have visited the project. There have also been a number of workshops involving the STUs with the community
associations in each state, the latest one with all 50 associations of the State of Pemambuco. In addition, the
project has been evaluated by private consultants and universities. The result of all this activity has been a series
of lessons which have been or will be incorporated as changes or adaptations in the existing project and the
design of the proposed project. Because of large interest in the Bank and among foreign governments, the project
has received frequent visits. This together with the Bank's presence in the Recife field office has led to a much
more intensive supervision effort than otherwise typical.
4. In addition, two requests for an investigation of the pilot project, submitted to the Bank's Inspection Panel in
December 1998 and again in September 1999, provided a further opportunity for stocktaking and evaluation of
the project's implementation experience.  The Inspection Panel reviewed both requests, visited several
subprojects in the field and, in May 1999 and again in December 1999, concluded not to recommend an
investigation of the project.



Page 25
IV. Evaluation Findings
Results from the various evaluation studies conducted, as well as Bank supervision, reveal that the Cedula da Terra
project is achieving its objective of expediting land access to the rural poor. The evaluation confirms that the
innovative community approach is working and producing effective results on the ground. Given the innovative nature
of the pilot project, the evaluation shows results as favorable as they could possibly be expected at this stage, lending
strong support to the continuation and expansion of the approach. As detailed below, land quality is adequate, land
prices are lower than under more traditional approaches, self-selection is quite satisfactory and newly acquired farms
show favorable expectations for financial and economic viability. Equally important, beneficiaries - with few caveats
- should be able to generate sufficient earnings to service their debt obligations and significantly raise both incomes
and living standards. The following are summary assessments of implementation progress and impact to date, as well
as modifications both introduced to the current project and slated for introduction in the proposed project:
1. The project has created an agile and effective method of settling landless rural families: A central message from
many organizations and the beneficiaries themselves, is that the target population wants land access in a rapid,
participatory and less conflictive maimer, even though they know the land must be purchased. Proof of this was
the huge demand for purchase of land, which reached about 40,000 families by the end of the first year of project
implementation. The community-based approach expedites the settlement of landless rural families, with land
acquisition from identification to purchase typically taking less than 90 days (as long as finds are available). It is
important to place this finding in the context of overwhelming demand for land access: a large number of families
have negotiated lands and are today awaiting approval and availability of loan finds for land purchase. Given this
demand for land access and a proven mechanism for expediting rural land purchases for the target beneficiaries, it
would be irresponsible not to move forward with the community-based approach.
2. Self-selection of the landless rural poor is working well: Results of the preliminary evaluations presented in
Buainain et al. (1999a, 1999b) clearly demonstrate that the project is attracting families with the social and
economic profile of the intended target group (i.e., poor families in rural areas). The average beneficiary
household monthly income was R$92, or about 73% of the national minimum wage. About one-half of this
income was generated off-farm. Some 32% of beneficiaries were illiterate, while another 47% had completed no
more than 4 grade. Discriminant analysis of the data reveals that Cedula da Terra beneficiaries (i) have lower
overall asset ownership, larger household density and poorer quality housing, relative to comparisons with a
control group of households with similar socioeconomic standing (Buainain 1999b). Leakage to non-poor
beneficiaries is minimal and would not justify a more structured targeting mechanism. Most beneficiaries are
previous tenants or share-croppers, often on the same lands purchased under the project. Practically all have some
previous farming experience, with some 90% having worked in the rural sector prior to becoming project
beneficiaries. The requirement for active participation by beneficiaries leads to a desirable self-selection of
"entrepreneurial poor" who are more likely to be successful as farmers than the average rural poor.
3. Most settlements under the pilot project have been small, relative to traditional land reform settlements: It has
been observed that groups should have a minimum of 10 families and a maximum of 30 to 35 for optimal
performance. Community associations under the pilot project tend to range in size from 15 to 30 families.
Groups smaller than 10 families are likely to have difficulty forming an association board, which is a condition of
eligibility for land. The resources available to a very small group are likely to be insufficient to make certain
investments, either due to cost (as in the case of rural electrification), or to under-utilization of purchased
equipment, (in the case of a tractor). For groups of over 50 families, experience shows that management of a
rural property by a large group can be difficult and that the tendency, demonstrated in traditional land reform
settlements, where 100, 200 or more families are settled, is for such groups to ultimately be sub-divided into
smaller groups of around 50 families which then create their own associations.
The proposed project will continue to be viewed (as has been the Cedula da Terra) as a complementary
instrument for providing land access to the rural poor. While innovative in many aspects, and different in
others when compared with traditional land reform approaches, these complementary lines of action will,
over time, find both their own particular pace and space, and be utilized in a way that maximizes benefits
from the Federal land reform program.
4. Land quality is generally adequate and representative of the predominant conditions in each state: Most
purchased land shows promise for good productive potential including adequate water supply or irrigation
potential. In fact, beneficiaries have often made excellent choices for their land. For example, typical cases



Page 26
include the purchase of banana, coconut and cacao plantations that were underutilized by previous owners
because of high labor costs and labor supervision requirements but can quickly be turned productive and
profitable again. This result is, in fact, quite striking, given the often low quality of agricultural lands in the
Northeast and the tendency of land reform in the past to focus on low quality lands. Buainain et al. (1999b)
analyzed the prevailing geography in each state, comparing it with the characteristics of the purchased lands
under the project and found the Cedula da Terra projects to be well-distributed among the meso-regions in the
participating states, with low levels of concentration in any one meso-region. (Table 5). Some better-endowed
lands (e.g., Oeste Baiano in Bahia, Serra de Ibiapaba and Serra do Cariri in Ceari) had no land purchases under
Cedula da Terra, most likely due to the cost of these holdings in relation to the cost ceilings imposed by the
project. In line with overall agroclimatic conditions in the region, some areas are prone to periodic droughts and
require access to water or irrigation investments to ensure sustainable production.
* In drought-prone areas, the pilot project is focusing on (and the proposed project will emphasize) ensuring
sufficient access to water resources, particularly through TA available for production and productive
investment planning and complementary investment in irrigation. Also, STUs will avoid approval for land
purchases in drought-prone areas where irrigation either does not exist or cannot be rapidly put into place.
Table 5: Distribution of Cidula do Terra Projects acoss Meso- and Micro-regios participating states
States      Meso-regions with Projects  Micro-regions with Projects  State Projects
(%)                       (%)                (% of Total)
Bahia                    71%                       38%                        24%
Ceara                    86%                       55%                        34%
Pernambuco              100%                       58%                        17%
Maranhlo                100%                       48%                        13%
Minas Gerais             60%                       43%                        12%
5. Land prices are very favorable: Lands prices under Cedula da Terra are about 22% lower per hectare and 28%
lower per family than the present value of initial INCRA expropriation prices in the Northeast. There has also
been a general downward trend in land prices in the Northeast, due to recent changes introduced at the Federal
level (e.g., increased ITR). Under the pilot project, land has been acquired at an average cost of R$193 per
hectare and R$4,759 per family. The nominal cost of expropriated land in the Northeast in 1998 was R$3 11 per
hectare and R$8,229 per family. Since part of the expropriation compensation is paid in long-term government
bonds at below-market interest rates, the nominal values for expropriation need to be adjusted to present value
terms to be comparable to cash payments to owners under the project. Employing an estimated medium- to long-
term interest rate of 16%, the cost of expropriated land in the Northeast in 1998 was R$249 per hectare an
R$6,578 per family. Moreover, in many cases expropriated owners later obtain additional compensation through
judicial actions, which can increase the final cost of expropriated lands to as much as three times the initial
compensation amount.
6. Project implementation through community associations has been overall successful: The success of community
associations in mobilizing members, selecting land for purchase, designing a productive subproject, and
implementing it is truly remarkable, given the constraints they face. Bauinain (1 999a), using the aforementioned
analysis of the self-selection targeting mechanism, found that the average beneficiary "...besides having a low
income level, has a low educational level, no experience with modern technology, limited access to general and
technical information, and little experience in running a business..." - all of which are fully consonant with the
characteristics of the rural poor of the Northeast and combine to place substantive obstacles in the way of project
beneficiaries in the course of implementation. Although many beneficiary associations were formed several years
ago and are well-organized, others were formed only recently. Experience has shown that these more recent
associations can lack a set of agreed principles to guide interpersonal relationships between the groups formed,
and an understanding of public policies and basic notions of planning, which are needed to make settlements
sustainable. The key challenge is to provide support to these associations while encouraging and fostering their
autonomy. These issues have been discussed at length with participating states and with NEAD, and
recommendations have been adopted for the proper training of settlers to efficiently implement and start
settlement activities, creating the foundations for the settlement's sustainability. This model for building human
and social capital will also be a feature of the proposed project.
The design of the project places beneficiaries in the driver's seat, and its success depends entirely on their active
participation, through community associations, in all stages of the project cycle. Experience to date has been very
positive at the community level, with the associations (many of them pre-dating the project) showing strong



Page 27
interest, initiative and active participation. At the same time, the project also envisaged the creation of a
Consultative Council in each State, comprising representatives of Government and organized civil society,
including churches, unions (of owners and workers) and other NGOs. In contrast to the active grassroots level
community associations, the Councils' performance has been below expectations. The Government is reviewing
the functions, composition and procedures of the Councils to identify ways to increase their effectiveness.
The proposed project will include a special effort by the States to provide assistance to community
associations in the project identification phase. Before subproject approval, members of the STU will discuss
the subproject proposal with the entire association to ensure that the proposal is the outcome of an effective
decision-making process within the association, and all that its members clearly and fully understand the
obligation they are assuming under the project.
7. The subprojects demonstrate the expectation for financial and economic viability: Simulations based on actual
properties purchased and conditions faced by beneficiaries show that the great majority of production systems
under the project have the capacity to generate sufficient income to lift families out of poverty and enable them to
repay the land loan (Buainain et al. 1999b). In the more favorable agro-climatic regions, financial returns are
likely to exceed estimates made at appraisal (Box 1). In the semi-arid Sertao, financial estimates will likely be
reached in many cases where adequate access to water is available (see no. 4 above). When the Project was
prepared, the TJLP was selected by the Government and applied to the financing for land purchases under the
pilot project. The payment period, as defined, was up to 10 years, with 3 years' grace. Studies done by NEAD
found that, in most regions such as the litoral (coastal region) of Bahia and Ceara, repayment likelihood was very
high under the terms stipulated by the loan. In the least advantaged regions, however, principally the semi-arid,
which is subject to periodic droughts, some families could find it hard to fulfil their repayment obligations.
Furthermore, a temporary though significant increase in the TJLP in the context of the recent economic crisis
increased the cost of the land loan to a level at which repayment in some of the least favorable areas would have
been doubtful.
Box 1: Financial Viability of Farms Representative of Cedula da Terra projects
Northern Coast of Bahia. Typical production systems include coconut, fruits and livestock, and net family
incomes are expected to reach R$3,000 after four years and R$5,000 after ten years, leaving no doubt as to
capacity to repay land purchase loans.
Cacao Region of Bahia. Annual net family incomes will range from R$2,500-R$2,800 in Year 7 and
R$3,700-R$4,000 in Year 10, depending on climatic conditions. Expected financial outcomes in the extreme
South of Bahia are similar to, or marginally better than, those in the cacao region.
Semi-arid Region of Bahia. Production systems are similar to those in the semi-arid zone of Ceara (beans,
corn, manioc, and livestock), although access to irrigation is much better. Net family incomes are expected to
reach R$4,000 in years of normal rainfall, while drought years will yield net incomes substantially lower, thus
making debt repayment difficult and again highlighting the importance of evaluating irrigation potential on
prospective land purchases.
Semi-arid Zone of Ceara: This is the most difficult area, typically with subsistence production systems
(beans, corn, manioc), some livestock (goats, cattle), and some higher value crops in relatively small irrigated
areas. Under rain-fed conditions in normal years, net family incomes would reach about R$1,300 in Year 4,
reaching as high as R$2,000 in Year 10, but a significant share of this income is in the form of a on-farm
consumption. Drought years in the rain-fed areas would make loan repayment extremely doubtful, while
irrigated areas in drought years would be expected to have net family incomes in a range of R$888 to
R$2,000. Irrigation in normal years would yield net incomes on the order of R$1,600 to R$3,400.
Maranhao: Cattle production, beans, rice, maize and cassava (possibly using animal traction) would
translate into net family incomes of about R$2,000 in year 4, reaching R$3,500 by year 10.
Zona de Mata of Pernambuco: Drawing on an existing Cedula da Terra property - a once-abandoned
coconut plantation - which should yield net family incomes of about R$5,500 by year 4.



Page 28
* The TJLP is no longer used to define financial charges stemming from the loan and has been replaced by the
loan conditions of the National Land Fund (Ley Complementar, No. 93), which include a fixed real interest
rate of 4% per annum and a payment period of 20 years. These new charges and terms will also be applied
retroactively to current land loans before the end of the three year grace period.
*  Under the proposed project, beneficiaries will receive a land loan for 20 years (with three years of grace)
with a fixed interest rate of 4%. Under these conditions financial and economic viability in all areas is highly
likely.
8. Given the likely economic success of the vast majority of subprojects, repayment of land loans appears likely,
however, further measures are being taken to reduce the risk of default on land loans: Beneficiaries themselves
are optimistic and enthusiastic regarding loan repayment (Box 2). The replacement of the TJLP with a fixed real
interest rate of 4% per annum and a payment period extended to 20 years will only increase the already strong
likelihood for repayment on the part of the beneficiaries.
* Under the proposed project, land loan will be also be granted at a fixed interest rate and structured more like
a fully commercial banking operation with periodic balance statements. The pilot under the proposed project
(with full commercial risk of the operation taken by the financial agent) will seek to establish a model under
which the agent has much stronger incentives for effective debt collection.
Box 2: Voices of Cedida da Terra Beneficiaries
"If we had to start paying back now, we have the means to do it. Here, everybody is working day and night.
Nobody rests. If we always had the courage to work on other people's land, imagine now, that we have our own land!!
Here, everyone now has something to eat and a little money to begin repayment. Everyone here has their bananas --
already producing -- their manioc. They have corn, beans and rice; many are also planting watermelon. Everything
that we produce, we need only travel about 6km and we can sell it."
- Sr. Manoel Xavier Filho, Fazenda Belmonte, Bacabel, Maranhao
"What's important for us is now we have land to pass on to our children. Now, besides the land, we also have cattle,
we have milk for the children; we have pork to eat and sell. Before, we had nothing. To repay the loan, some
members already have a little money set aside for the first paymnent. Since our primary activity will be livestock,
we're going to pay the loan with livestock production. As we say around here,"The calves belong to the bank."
-Edilson, community of Maria Izabel, Gravata, Pernambuco
"The land was expensive because it was already producing. It has 390 ha of pasture and another 100 ha are cleared
for cultivation. Lots of water, fencing and roads. Ready to produce. Imagine if we had purchased land without
improvements -- as poor as we are -- how would we work it? Never. We'd have to sell everything, including the
land, to pay off the Bank. We and the representatives of the local Rural Worker's Union checked out every inch of
this land before we bought it. Our association dreamed about buying this land. We already calculated the value of the
improvements to the land and we believe that, if we had needed to invest in them ourselves, we'd have needed double
or triple what we paid for land."
- Sr. Josd Mario Miranda, Boa Vista do Acarai, Balsas, Maranhao
"Everything got better. Before, we lived in tents on invaded lands or in lean-tos paying rent. We only worked one or
two days each week. The children were always ill. We lived in true hunger. Today, it's been almost two years since
we bought our land and everything is better. It's like leaving hell for heaven! Now, look, we have this beautiful
house; there's work for the whole family. We've got a school, here in front. And we have food every day. Here,
everyone is working. At night, we have a school that operates with battery light, from a tractor. In the morning we
have to push the tractor since the battery is weak, but it's our tractor! The school was built by the community. The
municipality is paying for the teacher. Our lives have improved a lot."
-  -Sra. Josinete de Jesus, Fazenda Itairi, Conde, Bahia
9. State Technical Units and CSOs play an important role in supporting community associations in the identification
and negotiation of land purchase opportunities: Lack of information and some tendency toward purchasing the
land previously cropped as share-croppers have inhibited many beneficiary associations from comparing a
broader range of properties available for sale and actively negotiating the purchase price with the previous
owners. Frequently, State agencies have assisted in land identification and subsequent negotiations, thus ensuring
land quality and purchase prices consistent with prevailing market conditions. In other cases, NGOs, churches and



Page 29
others have provided useful support to community associations in the identification and negotiations processes.
Buainain et al. (1999a) found that the role of State agencies in supervising and mediating the land negotiation and
purchase process was both adequate and necessary and recommended that it be reinforced. It is expected that,
over time, as local capacity is strengthened, the role of State agencies in helping communities during the land
negotiations process will diminish. The proposed project will include several modifications to provide additional
support to beneficiary associations in selecting and negotiating land for purchase:
*  Beneficiary associations can contract technical assistance for the preparation of their project proposal. This
includes assistance in land selection and negotiations. Up to 8% of the approved land loan can be used for
this purpose and is released at the time of land purchase. Subproject applications would include information
on other properties considered for purchase and rejected.
*  Each participating State will present an action plan for an expanded publicity campaign and the further
mobilization of NGOs, banks and other groups to provide information and assistance to beneficiary
associations, through seminars, training programs and other means.
*  In particular, a mechanism would be developed for regular dissemination of information by state and region
on properties for sale.
10. Technical assistance, in conjunction with the land purchase and subsequent productive activities, is crucial to
both realize and sustain project benefits: Under the pilot project, community associations have access for
technical assistance for their specific investment projects. The extent and quality of broader technical assistance
has differed with the availability and quality of local public extension services (EMATER) or different private
institutions. Studies/observations during the first year of project implementation indicated that official TA has
fallen short of expectations in both quality and timeliness. The Project calls for TA funding for the preparation
and implementation of community investment subprojects. However, communities need more effective and
efficient TA in planning family farming activities, i.e., the production of crops and their processing, storage and
marketing.
*  Alternatives have been discussed with the STUs to improve TA for beneficiary families, especially in the
first three years of settlement. The amount allocated for the community to purchase TA has been increased
during the land purchase process and subsequent production planning over the first three years after
installation to help ensure increases in productivity and incomes.
*  To ensure sufficient and high quality technical assistance for community associations, the proposed project
includes the option for communities to use up to 8% of the land loan for the contracting of technical
assistance, up to 4% for initial technical assistance for project preparation, and the remainder for technical
assistance for the production system throughout the first three years of the subproject. In addition,
community associations will continue to be able to contract technical assistance for the specific investment
subprojects, as under the pilot project.
11. In some States, there have been significant and unnecessary delays in the approval of investment subprojects
after land acquisition: Bureaucratic bottlenecks and a slowdown of the flow of funds at the Federal level
hindered the implementation of complementary investments to the newly acquired lands. Such delays slow the
establishment of productive farm operations in the critical first year and need to be avoided. Experience with land
reform over many decades shows that to avoid out-migration and keep families on their land, they must establish
themselves in the area immediately after land is acquired.
*  Under the pilot project, a mechanism was introduced by which, immediately after land acquisition, the STU
calculates the amount of community investment (under the defined subsidy ceiling) to which each
beneficiary association is entitled, plus aid in the amount of R$1,300 for the cost of establishing each family.
The STU authorizes the Banco do Brasil to draft a single contract with the association, with investment
subproject resources being blocked in each association's account until subproject proposals are approved by
the STU, at which point the resources are rapidly unblocked and disbursed. This streamlined mechanism
permits beneficiary families to immediately use the aid money to move in and get established. The certainty
of investment resources once the land is acquired, without the need to work as paid laborers to support their
families, encourages beneficiaries to establish the property rapidly and start farming.
*  Under the proposed project, the streamlined approval procedures for investment subprojects will be used



Page 30
from the beginning. In addition, the technical assistance available for project preparation will support
associations in the definition and preparation of necessary investments as early as possible, thus speeding up
their implementation after land acquisition.
12. The control structure and the information system have been adequate for a rapidly evolving pilot The pace witi
which the pilot has been implemented has placed a high degree of importance on reliable data to assess
achievement of project objectives and determine demand for follow-up activities. Data detailing implementation
progress are freely available through the INCRA homepage (http://www.incra.eov.br): this site also allows
downloads of evaluation studies and other materials related to Cedula da Terra.
*  NEAD has worked to further improve the scope of the MIS for the pilot project. The current MIS provides
data on all phases of the land acquisition cycle, including details of land purchase proposals (e.g., land type
and location, families benefited, expected cost of land, production potential), final land purchase
arrangements, and complementary investments financed through the project.
*  As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will establish the MIS, which is the key instrument for
monitoring implementation of all subprojects on a on-line basis.
V. Summary
In a relatively short period of time, the community-based mechanism for land reform piloted under the project has
proven to be agile and cost effective in increasing land access for the rural poor. The modifications to the project,
based on the aforementioned evaluation and supervision findings are summarized below:
*  Only lands not subject to expropriation will be considered for purchase under the community-based mechanism;
*  Financial terms for land purchase have been revised to a fixed real interest rate of 4% over a 20 year loan period;
*  Flow of funds has been streamlined such that complementary investment resources are available immediately
upon completion of the land purchase;
*  Technical assistance from STUs to community associations has been strengthened during land identification and
subsequent negotiation;
*  Heightened attention to availability of water resources in drought-prone regions of the participating states;
*  Expanded information campaign to bolster understanding of the concepts and mechanisms of the community-
based approach to land reform.



Page 31
Annex 3
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Detailed Project Description
Project Component A: Land Purchase Funds- EUR 173.7 million (US$160.87 million equivalent, total cost plus
contingencies)
This component includes land purchases by community associations of poor farmers without land or with
insufficient land, fimded by loans (financed from Federal Government budgetary sources) representing counterpart
funding for the Bank-financed project components. Component costs are estimated at US$160.0 million for about
50,000 families in the Northeast and South (at an average cost of US$3,000 per family in the Northeast and
US$11,000 per family in the South). The component would be implemented as follows:
* Community associations (consisting of rural workers who do not own land or own insufficient land for
subsistence) identify suitable lands and negotiate the purchase of those lands with willing sellers.
* Communities present to the Local Council of Rural Development (LCRD) (a) the owner's declaration of
willingness to sell at a specified price, (b) the request for land purchase financing and (c) their choice of
financial agent.
*  The LCRD (a) analyzes community members' eligibility, the general characteristics of the land offered for sale
and whether the negotiated price is consistent with local land market conditions and (b) makes resulting
recommendations to the STUs.
*  The State Technical Unit (STU) processes the community land purchase proposal, confirming that (a) the title
to the land is clear, (b) no other condition threatens the effectiveness of the land purchase and (c) the negotiated
price is consistent with market conditions.
*  The STU authorizes the respective financial agent to enter into a loan agreement with the community
association for the land purchase.
* The Financial Agent concludes the loan agreement with the community association and disburses loan funds to
complete the land purchase.
* Communities decide internally as to the distribution of land among participating households and the
corresponding payment obligations.
The MDA will provide loan funds for each participating State from which community land purchases will be
financed. The financial agents for the project, appointed by the MDA, will administer and disburse loan funds for
land purchases to the community associations through the financial agents chosen by the communities.
Land purchases would be collective financial obligations formalized through contracts signed between the
participating banks and the respective community association. Terms of the land purchase financing would follow
those set forth under the National Land Fund (i.e., Ley Complementar No. 93) including fmnancing for up to 20 years,
with three years of grace, at a nominal interest rate of not more than 12%. The current financing conditions for
loans of the amount to be paid under this project (i.e., under R$15,000) provide for a real interest rate of 4% with a
50% rebate on the interest rate in the poorest regions of the country.
The Federal Government and the participating States will conclude a formal agreement on the annual allocation of
resources of the land account among the participating States. The Federal Government will also conclude
agreements with financial agents for the project, appointed by MDA, specifying the terms of the loans to be made to
beneficiary communities. The details of the operational mechanism for community land purchases will be described
in an operational manual for the land account.



Page 32
Up to 8% of the total land purchase cost is available to the community association in the form of technical
assistance, of which up to one-half could be accessed for aid in preparing the land purchase subproject. Remaining
technical assistance could then be applied toward increasing the productivity of the land acquired over a subsequent
three year period of project implementation.
Under a pilot component, financial agents (Banco do Brasil and/or Banco do Nordeste) would implement some
subprojects fully under their responsibility. In these cases, there would be no participation from STUs, and financial
agents would assume the full credit risk of the operation. Banco do Brasil has indicated that they would like to use
lands they are holding as collateral from defaulted farm debt for this component. The objective of this pilot is to
open the path for commercial bank participation in the pilot, in particular for the most promising beneficiaries.
Project Component B: Community Subprojects - EUR 214.3 million (US$198.47 million equivalent, total cost
plus contingencies)
Communities participating in the land purchase component are then eligible to present proposals to their respective
STU for financing complementary investment subprojects and technical assistance to establish the land settlement
and improve the productivity of the acquired land. The component would provide matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by these groups as priority investments that
would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of many types, broadly classified as infrastructure
(such as rural water supply, electrification, local road improvements, and small bridges), social (e.g., day care
centers, school or health post rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-scale community agro-
processing, communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes). Subproject selection would be demand-driven, with a
short negative list of ineligible subproject types. Subproject proposals would observe standard documentation and
technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria established in a detailed Project Operational Manual,
which sets forth procedures and guidelines for implementation and is based on the manual already in use for the
Cddula da Terra and RPAP projects.   The STU would appraise the subproject proposals on technical,
environmental and institutional parameters. Financial agents - as designated by the community associations - would
then disburse grant funds to these associations for implementation and completion of the subprojects.
The total available financing for a community association - the sum of (a) the amount of the land loan; (b) grants for
community investments; and (c) an initial cash grant - would be subject to a ceiling of about R$15,000 per family.
However, participating states are free to set a lower ceiling if they so choose. This means that a community
association can decide between purchasing more expensive land or investing more through complementary
investment subprojects.
Each community association has the option of directing up to 8% of the cost of each subproject to hire technical
assistance and training support tailored to its particular subproject. A proposal for the use of this percentage would
be included in the subproject proposal. In addition, because technical assistance should extend into the operation
and maintenance period of their subprojects, particularly for productive subprojects, community associations should
include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out of operation and maintenance (O&M) fuids
maintained by each association. As part of their regular supervision efforts, the STUs would monitor the frequency
and quality of technical assistance and training provided to beneficiaries.
In compliance with Brazilian law, beneficiaries must form legally-constituted civil associations in order to be
eligible to receive financing under the project, such as those already formed for the land purchases conducted under
Project Component A. Disbursements to the beneficiary associations would occur through signed agreements
(convenios) with the STU (or with financial agents under the pilot). The model agreements are part of the Project
Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subprojects, either in cash, kind or labor, and
would be responsible for the O&M of the investments. The minimum level of contributions expected from the
beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government are specified in a cost-sharing matrix in the Project
Operational Manual.
Project Component C: Community Development Support and Strengthening - EUR 13.3 million (US$12.32
million equivalent, total cost plus contingencies)
This component would help strengthen the effectiveness and quality of project operations, by financing technical
assistance, seminars and training courses for community associations, and public relations campaigns to disseminate



Page 33
information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities, to increase awareness,
transparency and participation.
The resources of this component would finance a variety of capacity building programs, such as:
*  Mobilization assistance for community associations. The STUs would formulate and fund strategies to extend
community mobilization to those communities lacking in organization and social capital and thus not initially
poised to benefit from the project. Such assistance would include community workshops to determine priority
needs, training for community groups in organizational skills, formation of legal associations and methods to
access technical assistance for subproject preparation and implementation.
*  Specialized skills training The STUs and groups of community associations would receive, on a demand basis,
practical "on-the-job" training in areas such as monitoring techniques, financial administration, as well as
specific technical topics in support of subproject implementation and O&M.
*  Best-practice exchange. STUs would finance technical exchanges among community associations with similar
subprojects. These exchanges have proven an effective way to transfer know-how on subproject O&M from
community associations with successful subprojects to associations undertaking new subprojects. In addition,
exchanges among the STUs could be financed to disseminate successful experiences across participating states.
*  Publicity campaigns. Broad based dissemination of the availability, the principles, and the mechanisms of the
project to potential beneficiaries is critical for promoting transparency and rapid project implementation. If
necessary, publicity may be extended to facilitate the exchange of information between sellers and buyers on
land available for sale.
Project Component D: Project Administration, Supervision and Monitoring - EUR 26.8 million (USS24.82
million equivalent, total cost plus contingencies)
This component would support overall project coordination, supervision and monitoring. It would finance field
supervision and monitoring as well as the incremental operating costs of the NTU and STUs for overall coordination
of project activities. Costs have been estimated based on the experience under the ongoing RPAP projects.
Project Coordination: State Technical Units will confirm that (a) the title to the land is clean, (b) no other
condition threatens the effectiveness of the land purchase and (c) the negotiated price is consistent with market
conditions. STUs will also: (a) appraise community subproject proposals for compliance with project guidelines and
eligibility criteria found in the Project Operational Manual; (b) assess community participation in identifying,
preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c) supervise the quality of overall project
implementation through field supervision and through the Management Information System (MIS); (d) implement
public information campaigns to disseminate information about the project; (e) periodically report progress related
to the project performance indicators; (f) prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews; and (g)
submit project Annual Operating Plans to the NTU for approval. Using standardized cost indicators, reasonable
costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard designs would have to be fully
justified in the subproject proposal for review by the STU, as would proposed investments which fall outside the
range of standardized costs.
Project Oversight: The Office of the Minister of Agrarian Development will delegate project implementation to
the participating States, but will retain the power to approve the Annual Operating Plans for the Project and the
respective resource allocations per State. The Office of the Minister will also be responsible for overall project
impact evaluation and dissemination of the experiences gathered.
The MDA and the financial administrator of the Project will act through the financial agents selected by the
communities and accredited by MDA. Both the Special Account and the funds for land purchase will be
administered by the financial administrators appointed by MDA. Both Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste
have declared their willingness to act as financial agents for beneficiary associations under the proposed project.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project monitoring will be based on a Management Information
System (MIS) operated and maintained by the NTU and the STUs. The project MIS is a data base organized in three
general levels: (a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for
each subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are generated;
and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports are generated. Under the mainstream model,
the NTU and the STUs will establish, maintain and update the MIS, including key Project information (as agreed



Page 34
with the Bank). Under the pilot model, financial institutions would forward such data to the STUs periodically for
inclusion in the MIS. The STUs would forward to the NTU and the Bank headquarters in Washington, D.C. a
monthly summary of key MIS data (as agreed with the Bank) so that a central database of overall project
implementation could be maintained. With information from the MIS, combined with field visits and inputs from
project supervision reports, project contracted studies and audits, STUs would monitor project characteristics and
trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to
improve project implementation.
Civil Society Participation: The project is implemented by civil society (community associations). The project is
also open to local, state and national civil society organizations, whose participation could be very valuable for the
project. This participation could take, among others, the following forms. At the local level, the Rural Workers'
Unions and other representatives of organized civil society could (a) assist in project dissemination, aiding
communities to organize, (b) help identify lands available for purchase, analyze land prices, and prepare land
purchase proposals to be presented to the STU, (c) accompany and evaluate the Project, (d) take part in training of
beneficiary associations and (e) discuss technical assistance and organizational strategy. At the state level, a State
Council, with participation from organized civil society representatives, would follow project implementation,
making recommendations to improve Project implementation, and approving any exceptions required in processing
land acquisitions. The State Council would have the authority to veto any operation that conflicts with Project
guidelines. In one participating state in the South, the project could pilot civil society being ascribed the role of
Technical Unit. At the national level, CONTAG and other representatives of organized civil society will participate
in a National Council that would define the overall guidelines for the Project.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The Special Account and the project accounts will
be established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be
provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial year. The audit reports would convey the
auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of
expenditure (SOEs), their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. With
respect to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs,
together with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals.
Project Reporting: Periodic processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the characteristics
and evolution of project implementation. The STUs will be responsible for meeting and reporting on the project
performance indicators.
• Annual Physical Performance Reviews: The Annual physical performance review would be conducted on a
sample of land reform beneficiary communities. Variables assessed during the Review would include: progress
in assigning of land, land dispute resolution, crop patterns and yields across beneficiary communities, use of
purchased inputs, sale of crops and animal products, number of family workers used, use and purpose of hired
labor, off-farm family labor, land repayment experience of beneficiaries, proportion of children in school, status
of family housing (e.g., tents, shacks, houses), access to safe water, incidence of diseases, and whether there are
abandoned plots.
* Implementation Review: The Implementation Review would be held annually, together with the Physical
performance review. The Review would take place in advance of the approval of next year's Annual Operating
Plan. The range of studies to be prepared for each of these reviews would be agreed upon on a rolling basis, at
appraisal for the first review, and at each annual implementation review for the subsequent implementation
review.
Project Component E: Impact Evaluation and Dissemination - EUR 8.3 million (US$7.69 million equivalent,
total cost plus contingencies)
The Federal Government is responsible for project impact evaluation and dissemination of the experiences gathered.
The Minister of Agrarian Development will coordinate the impact evaluation of the Project, assemble information
and disseminate the experience. This component will provide the basis for judging ex-post the impact of the Project
and determining ex ante the possible extension of the Program to the subsequent phases.
The National Technical Unit The Ministry of Agrarian Development is establishing a National Technical Unit
(NTU) which would assemble information and data sets on agrarian reform and family agriculture, make it available



Page 35
electronically via a server on the Internet, sponsor national and regional workshops and other forums for the
exchange of information about agrarian reform, and link with the planned international network of the FAO, IFAD
and the World Bank. It would also contract out, coordinate and supervise the impact evaluation studies, as well as
other studies which relate directly to family agriculture and agrarian reform. Examples are studies of less
cumbersome legal options for the cooperation of land reform beneficiaries than those provided in the cooperative
law, or studies on the impact of macro-economic policies, fiscal policies, agricultural policies, and the agrarian
reform program on land prices. The Project will assist in the planning, execution, and financing of the NTU's
activities through financing of:
a) The consultants who will form the nucleus of the NTU.
b) Operational expenditures including mainly communication, hardware, software and computing services.
c) Information dissemination and exchange including consultant services for information management and
development and maintenance of the land reform information network, seminars and technical assistance for the-
assembly, exchange, and dissemination of experiences in the participating States.
Impact Evaluation Study. Impact evaluation will be done on a comparable basis for the Bank-financed Project and
the traditional INCRA program. It is for this reason, and to avoid duplication, that financing and contracting out of
impact evaluation should be the responsibility of the Federal government. The financial resources would be used to
contract the necessary data collection and analysis by independent agencies such as universities and research
institutes. The study will be overseen by the coordinator for project impact evaluation of the NTU.
Impact evaluation of the land reform program at the national and state levels (the Bank-financed Project as well as
efforts by INCRA) will be facilitated by an agricultural census completed in 1996. Aggregate impacts on farm
structure, employment and incomes will therefore be measurable in subsequent censuses by using the municipal data
in combination with program monitoring data on numbers of settlements created, number of beneficiaries, and
amount of land transferred by municipality.
Impact evaluation of the community-based land reform, with comparisons to the traditional expropriation and
redistribution programs, would be based on panel data sets, with a baseline taken in year 0 with follow-ups in 1, 2, 5
and 10 years. CONTAG, its federations and unions and other representatives of organized civil society would
actively participate in the evaluation of all phases of the proposed project. The Project would finance the baseline
and the year one and two surveys, as well as their analyses. As far as possible, the surveys will be linked to and
coordinated with other ongoing or planned surveys. The basic panels to be used for the study consist of the
following:
a) Direct beneficiaries, their settlements, and the surrounding indirect beneficiaries (e.g. landless workers,
merchants, providers of inputs and outputs), subsequently called the beneficiary paneL
b) A random sample of farms from which can be constructed the control groups of farms which are not changing
hands in the land reform, the farm panel.
c) A random sample of households from which can be constructed the control groups of non-beneficiaries, the
household panel.
The evaluation study was designed and a field-tested under the pilot project. The proposed project will finance the
continued implementation of the evaluation study and its extension to the newly included States.



Page 36
Project Performance Indicators
Project Components and       Responsible        Unit      PYO   PY1       PY2       PY3    PY4    Total
Project Activities            Institution
A. Land Purchases                  STUs,
Comm. Assoc.
Land Purchases Financed'
*  Beneficiary families                           Families          15,000    20,000   15,000            50,000
*  Beneficiary individuals                      Individuals        75,000    100,000   75,000           250,000
*  Subprojects                                                        300        400      300             1,000
B. Community Subprojects           STUs,
Comm. Assoc.
Subprojects Implemented
Start-up Grants                               Families          15,000    20,000   15,000            50,000
*  Investment Subprojects2                          No.              1,000     2,000    1,500    500      5,000
C. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of    STUs        No. per State            1         1        1                 3
TA and training
Training and TA Courses and         STUs
Seminars provided:
.  For beneficiary associations                     No.                40         40       20               100
*  For STU/SLI staff                                No.                10         10                        20
Publicity Campaigns in each         STUs
State
*  Presentation to Bank                                                 X
.  Implementation                                                       X         X        X
D. Project Administration, Supervision, and Monitoring
Supervision of Subprojects3         STUs         No. Visits         2,600      4,800    3,600   1,000    12,000
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)       STUs        No. per State    14     1          1        1                4
for each State
Special Account established         MDA                                 X
Operational Manuals                 STUs
.  Preparation                                                  X
*  Review and Adjustments                                               X         X        X
(with Bank approval)
Monitoring Reports and Reviews
*  Monthly Disbursement and         STUs        No. per State          12         12       12       6       42
MIS update
*  Semi-annual Reports              STUs        No. per State           2          2        2       1        7
External Audits                 STUs        No. per State            I         1        1       1         4
1      Assumes 30 families per subproject.
2      Assumes ca. US$ 23,000 per subproject.
3      2 visits per subproject under implementation (each land and community subprojects).
4      Operating plan for period until the beginning of the first full calender year.



Page 37
Project Components and        Responsible        Unit    PYO   PY1         PY2       PY3    PY4    Total
Activities             Institution
*  Physical Performance             STUs        No. per State            1          1        1       1        4
Reviews
*  Implementation Review            STUs                                           X
*  Mid-term evaluation         STUs, MDA, WB                                       X
E. Project Evaluation
Information Network and             MDA
Dissemination
*  Implement activities                                                  X         X         X      X
Evaluation Study                    MDA
*  Detailed Design Study                                                 X
*  Baseline study                                                        X
*  Resurveys                                                             X         X        X       X
Studies                             MDA



Page 38
Annex 4
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Component                               Local         Foreign         Total
-----------EUR million----------
I) Land Purchase Fund                         173.7            0.0          173.7
2) Community Subprojects: Investments,        175.0           39.3          214.3
Technical Assistance, and Start-up Grants
3) Community Development Support                6.5            5.3           11.8
4) Project Administration, Supervision and     19.3            5.2           24.5
Monitoring
5) Impact Evaluation and Dissemination          5.8            1.6            7.4
Total Baseline Cost                           380.3           51.4          431.7
Physical Contingencies                        2.3            0.8            3.1
Price Contingencies                           0.9            0.7            1.6
Total Proiect Cost                            383.5           52.9          436.4



Page 39
Annex 5
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Economic Analysis
Detailed economic and financial analyses were prepared to assess the quantitative effects of the proposed project in
terms of (a) the overall efficiency gains in the form of increased aggregate agricultural production; and (b) the
income effect for the beneficiaries. These analyses were principally based on five representative models of family
farms to be established under the proposed project, characterizing the different geographic regions within the
participating States. These analyses provide both the economic justification for the proposed project and the basis
for quantitative monitoring of its impacts. Three of the five models are updates from the economic analysis of the
Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot project (i.e., Semi-Arid, Mejo-Norte, Zona da Mata) since these models-
are equally representative of the Northeast States to be covered under the proposed project. In addition, two new
models were prepared to represent the substantially different conditions of the South, where the approach will be
piloted under the proposed project.
The model results indicate that household agricultural productivity and projected cash flows will be satisfactory to
service debt obligations and achieve significant, long-run increases in household income (Section A). In fact, there
are cases of households already saving for eventual loan repayment, following the three year grace period. Outside
of the semi-arid zone (i.e., Medio-Norte, Zona de Mata), medium-term annual net family incomes of R$4,300 to
R$5,000 are expected, nearly a fourfold increase over pre-project family income. This would fully meet the
expectations regarding returns and viability. In the semi-arid regions, the situation is more complicated. Most
families would be expected to arrive at an net annual income of about R$4,000 in normal years. However, the
periodic droughts can endanger the capitalization process in these areas. The proposed project is therefore
considering longer land loan repayment periods to provide a larger margin of safety and ensure viability of farms
even in the semi-arid areas.
The economic situation in the South is significantly different. The cost of a family farm plot is likely to be on the
order of R$10,000 or higher rather than the R$4,500 encountered in the Northeast. Also, the opportunity cost of
family labor is at least twice as high as in the Northeast. The South farm models indicate medium-term annual net
family incomes of roughly R$8,000, approaching R$12,000 to R$14,000 at the close of the 10-year projection
period. Relatively more sophisticated production systems are necessary to achieve economic and financial viability
under these conditions. While likely beneficiaries are overall less poor than those in the Northeast, the fiscal cost per
beneficiary family is significantly higher. However, regional conditions differ greatly within the South.
The farm models were then validated by the independent results from farming systems simulations conducted in
four states - Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco-and encompassing the diverse agroclimatic regions of these
states.' The simulations analyze the scope for household income growth following land acquisition and the
repayment capacity of these households based on the production potential of their newly acquired lands. Income
projections over ten years were calculated for beneficiary households, incorporating a variety of production
possibilities (both existing and potential). Overall, the simulation results confirm the models of the economic
evaluation and the financial viability of the new farms (Section C).
A: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Depending on the geographic region, the farm models produce an Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR)
between 24% and 58%, compared to a cost of medium-term Government financing estimated at 16% (on the basis of
the market discount rate of Government land reform bonds with 5-10 year maturity before the outbreak of the recent
financial crisis). The overall project IERR is estimated as 35%. The total net present value generated by the project
amounts to R$415 million.
Major assumptions entering the analysis are:
1 These simulations, although not conducted directly with Cedula da Terra land settlements, incorporate two
parameters using actual Cedula da Terra data: total family farm area (in ha.) and family workforce. Furthermore,
the simulations emphasize the core production activities envisaged under the Cedula da Terra. As such, the
simulations depict conditions representative of lands purchased by beneficiaries under the project and therefore
serve to independently corroborate the updated farm model results.



Page 40
a) Land prices will not be affected by the project given its small scale compared to the amount of lands for sale in
the market.
b) Multiplier effects on the local economy are not considered.
c) The opportunity cost of family labor is equal to the estimated without-project family labor income of R$1,400
per year.
d) Project beneficiaries have access to the Government's PRONAF credit program, or equivalent credit, equal to
other land reform beneficiaries.
Project economic retuns are very robust to a range of alternative scenarios, including the following:
a) If beneficiaries paid inflated land prices, economic returns would not be affected. However, the project would
produce an undesirable resource transfer to previous land owners.
b) The total failure (i.e., farm  production that, despite investments, never exceeds the pre-project level,
abandonment of the farm after three years, and the sale of the land at the purchase price) of 33% of the
subprojects would reduce the IERR to 19%. A 50% failure rate would reduce the EERR to 11%.
c) If without-project family income was underestimated by 67%, the increased opportunity cost of family labor
would reduce the IERR to 24%. However, beneficiaries with such elevated without-project income would suffer
an income decrease during the first project years demonstrating the built-in targeting mechanism toward low-
income families.
d) The models are based on relatively simple production systems emphasizing subsistence crops and a very small
area of higher value crops. In an alternative scenario some of these higher value crops have been eliminated from
the model for an even simpler production system bringing the IERR to 25%.
Table 1: Summary Results, Family Farm Models, Cedula da Terra
Semi-     Meic-      Mata       PR -      PR-        Total
Arid      Norte                North   Southwest  Project
Per Family Results (R$)                                                          Average
Economic Rate of Return          24%        39%       53%        58%        37%       35%
Economic NPV (per family)     R$4,758  R$12,229  R$11,135  R$28,592  R$28,232   R$9,558
Family Income Compared to Base Year
Year3                           116%       182%      333%       331%      255%       189%
Year 6                          244%       389%      359%       294%      283%       303%
Year 15                         453%       668%      613%       445%       525%      534%
Assumed Project Implementation (number of families)
Year 1                          8,333      3,500     3,500        667       667     16,667
Year 2                          8,333      3,500     3,500        667       667     16,667
Year 3                          8,333      3,500     3,500        667       667     16,667
Total                          25,000     10,500    10,500      2,000     2,000    50,000
NPV(R$million)                  103.3      111.5      101.5      49.7       49.1     415.1
B: Farm Income Analysis
Annual family labor income of participating families is expected to rise from about R$1,400 to $3,000-8,000 during
the later years of repayment of land loan and agricultural credit for initial investments (including consumption of
subsistence products). Analysis of various alternative scenarios confirms the robustness of farm financial viability.
The models show that family farm investments during the initial two years are critical for attaining the income
increase expected over the following years. This means that model results and farm viability are sensitive to the
availability of credit and agricultural production during the first years. If credit (e.g., PRONAF) is not forthcoming,
or a drought occurs during the initial years, families cannot undertake the investments required to leave pure
subsistence activities. Once families have managed the first critical years and have been able to invest in the
production of livestock and/or a higher value crop, their incomes are relatively robust. Higher interest rates or
shortened credit terms would be affordable.
The models show significant investment by families from their retained earnings. Additional investments (not shown
in the model) are easily perceivable in increased cultivation of higher value crops, investmnent in processing and



Page 41
marketing and would lead to even higher income in the long run. Given that further investments would require
significant managerial skills on the part of the beneficiaries, they are not included in the models.
C. Farming System Simulations: Corroborating Evidence
Family farming systems were simulated for the participating states of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao and Pemambuco.
(Table 2). Estimates were obtained for household income net of debt service, following the three year grace period.
Net household incomes are reported for three years of the ten-year simulation period: year 4 (when debt service
begins), year 7 and year 10. For the semi-arid simulations (i.e, Bahia and Ceara), results are presented for both
normal and drought years. In the case of Maranhao, results are reported for production with and without animal
traction.
Table 2: Simulation Description and Production Mix, Cedula da Terra participating states
Region/ Farming System         State                         Production Mix
North Coast                    Bahia          *  Coconut/orange, Passion fruit, Cattle, Beans, Maize
Cacao                          Bahia          *  Cacao or coffee, Cattle
Northeast Semi-Arid            Bahia          *  Cattle Raising, Cassava, Beans, Maize
Sertdo Cearense (with irrigation)   Ceara     *  Beans, Cotton, Cattle/goats
Extensive Cattle Raising       Maranhao       *  Cattle, Cassava, Beans, Maize
Zona de Mata                   Pearnmbuco    *  Coconut, Yams, Cattle, Cassava, Beans, Maize
Simulations outside of the semi-arid zone show perspectives of medium-term annual net family income of R$3,600
to R$5,400, compared to pre-project income of R$1,400 (Table 3). In Bahia's North Coast, using either coconut or
orange as the main cash crop, net annual household incomes were roughly twice the pre-project household income
by year 4, reaching almost four times that amount in year 10. The chosen case in Pernambuco show tremendous
potential and, in fact, is based on a recovered coconut plantation purchased under Cedula da Terra. The simulated
system in Pernambuco benefited from significant previous capital investment, which is a strong assumption for most
lands purchases under the project. Yet the positive results clearly demonstrate the productive potential for some of
the more promising properties secured by project beneficiaries.
Table 3: Simulated Net Household Income, Various Regions/Fanning Systems, Cedula da Terra States
Annual Household Income (net of debt repayment)
State        Region/Farming System                              (R_)
Year 4            Year 7            Year 10
Bahia          North Coast (coconut, orange)    6,200             18,000             20,000
North Coast (orange)             2,617              2,751              5,180
Cacao (Cacao)                    1,125              2,837              3,985
Cacao (Coffee)                     594              2,447              3,688
NE Semi-arid (regular)           2,455              3,679              3,908
NE Semi-arid (drought)             276                565                667
Ceari          SertAo Cearense (regular)        2,268              3,232              3,394
Sertdo Cearense (drouht)           888              1,931              1,993
Maranhao       Cattle Raising (w/ traction)      1,970             2,343              3,031
Cattle Raising (w/o traction)    1,970              2,063              1,927
Pemrnambuco    Zona de Mata                     5,436             15,985             24,215
In the semi-arid regions, the situation is more complicated. Most families would be expected to arrive at an annual
income of about R$3,000 to R$4,000 in normal years. Drought in the semi-arid zone places substantial temporary
risk of downward pressure on household incomes, underscoring the importance of irrigation investments and careful
evaluation of water access and irrigation potential in new purchase proposals.



Page 42
D: Summary of Cost Savings under the Community-Based Approach to Land Reform
The source of cost savings under the community-based approach to land reform are: (a) lower land purchase prices
as the result of negotiations between willing sellers and buyers; (b) lower costs of investments due to community-
driven design and community participation in implementation; and (c) the repayment of the land loan by
beneficiaries.
The estimated per family costs of the proposed project are compared with the typical costs of a conventional INCRA
land reform project in the Northeast. The cost estimates for the conventional project refer to real expenditures. The
administrative costs for traditional projects can be viewed as a lower bound estimate since: (a) INCRA costs that
cannot be unambiguously assigned to the land reform program have been excluded, and (b) land expropriation costs
are estimated based on compensation determined by INCRA; these values are frequently challenged in court,
sometimes resulting in payments of a multiple of the initial amount payable years later. Incremental Government tax
revenues are not considered in this comparison in either alternative. Costs of both approaches are presented below in
two forms: (a) the net present value of the different project components taking into account repayments by
beneficiaries (discounted at a real rate of 16%); and (b) total costs which are the non-discounted costs during the
initial project years without considering repayment by beneficiaries. By both measures, the community-based
approach shows a cost savings of about 40%.
A full cost-benefit comparison (not just a cost comparison as shown above) would yield results even more favorable
for the community-based approach. The benefits of the community-based approach are likely higher than those of
the traditional approach because: (a) there are fewer delays; (b) beneficiary selection is better; and (c) sufficient
finds for infrastructure investments are being provided.
Main assumptions entering the cost comparison are:
a) Land expropriation costs exclude final settlements by the courts.
b) Land loan repayment is based on an assumed 5% default rate.
c) Estimates based on data from the pilot project through September 1999.
Table 4: Cost Comparison, Traditional and Community-based approaches (all figures in R$ per family)
Northeast       Administration     Land       Start-up   Infrastructure    Total
(including   Money
improvement)
NPV Costs
Traditional                   $1,930       $6,578       $2,331      $2,407     $13.246
Community-based                 $441       $3,521       $1,300      $3,258      $8,519
Savings                         77%          46%         44%         -35%         36%
Initial Costs
Traditional                   $2,941       $8,229       $2,980      $3,193     $17,343
Community-based                 $478       $4,847       $1,300      $3,758     $10,383
Savings                         84%          41%         56%         -18%         40%
E: Fiscal Impact
The proposed project would reduce the net budgetary cost per family participating in the land reforn program by
about 40%. Thus, the project is expected to enable the Government to reach its targets at a net budgetary saving vis-
a-vis what it would have spent if it had attempted to reach these goals exclusively tbrough traditional expropriation
and direct purchase. If the proposed project were to benefit 16,700 families per year (as proposed), the expected
savings would be around R$116 million per year. If total Govermnent spending for land reform continued at 1997
levels (R$2.3 billion), and all this spending were at the per-family initial cost of the proposed project, the
Government would be able to benefit about 221,500 families per year, or about I million families in four and one-
half years.



Page 43
Annex 6
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in EUR million)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
2001    2002    2003    2004    Total    2005        2006      2007
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs            151.0   147.2    84.6       9.8    392.6      0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs              16.8    16.4      9.4      1.2     43.8       1.1      1.1       1.1
Total                    167.8   163.6    94.0    11.0    436.4         1.1      1.1       1.1
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                         19.2    18.7    10.8       1.3     50.0
Federal Government           15.4    15.0      8.6      1.0     40.0
State Govermnents             1.9     1.9      1.1      0.1      5.0
Community Associations        1.9     1.9      1.1      0.1      5.0  100.0%   100.00/%  100.00/o
Total                     38.4    37.5    21.6       2.5    100.0  100.0%   100.00/o  100.0%/o



Page 44
Annex 7
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project I
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or less and procured by local
communities, would be carried out mainly through direct contracting, and under subproject agreements signed
between the STU and the community association. This procurement procedure is appropriate because most
subprojects: (a) would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remnote areas and therefore it will be difficult to-
obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work
through the donation of unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of willingness of the
beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle
for communities to play an active role in the local development process. There may be cases when the community
lacks the capacity to make the necessary purchases of equipment and materials. For such subprojects, the STU
would make purchases on behalf of the communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects whenever
possible. Procurement by the STU would follow: (a) National Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures
acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small works under lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
of price quotations (under US$ 100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 5.4 million for goods and US$3.4
million for small works); or (b) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$ 100,000). For NCB the standard
bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be used. ICB is not
anticipated for any goods or works under the project.
Prior review of procuremnent documentation by the Bank would be made for all NCB contracts. Although the level
of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it would be compensated in several ways. First, an audit of
procurement by community contracting would be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of
reference agreed during appraisal. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would be conducted using the
project MIS in order to detect possible procurement problems and determine whether prices paid under community
procurement were reasonable. Third, the project's annual physical performance evaluation would verify the physical
implementation of subprojects and analyze procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, additional
random reviews would be conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject docunentation.
In addition, during project implementation, some specific procurement supervision missions will be carried out.
Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary communities, the STUs and the
MDA would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts, short lists, and
selection procedures for technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the value of
the contract is US$ 100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$ 50,000 or more for individual consultants. Also,
sole-source contracts would be subject to prior review. In addition, all consultant terms of reference would be
subject to Bank prior review.



Page 45
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in EUR million)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method2                   Total Cost
NCB       Local       Direct      Other     N.B.F3   (including
Shopping  Contracting                       contingen-
cies)
1. Land                              -          -           -          -      173.7      173.7
2. Civil Works4                    9.2        3.9         86.6         -          -       99.7
(8.2)     (3.3)       (75.9)      (- )       ()       (87.4)
3. Goods and Materials5              -        6.3        116.6         -          -      122.9
( - )    (5.5)      (101.5)       (-)       (-)      (107.0)
4. Consulting Services, Studies      -          -           -       40.1          -       40.1
and Proiect Administration         (-)       (-)          (-)      (23.8)                (23.8)
Total                            9.2      10.2        203.2      40.1      173.7       436.4
(8.2)      (8.8)      (177.4)    (23.8)               (218.2)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          NCB            Local Shopping    Direct Contracting   Contracts Subject to
Category                                                                 Prior Review
1. Small Works    > US$ 100,000      US$ 50,000-        < US$ 50,000       * All NCB
100,000 (aggregate                   * All Local
< US$ 3.4 million)                      Shopping
2. Goods and      > US$ 100,000      US$ 50,000-        <US$ 50,000        * All NCB
Services                             100,000 (aggregate                    * All Local
< US$ 5.4 million)                      Shopping
3. Consultant     N/A                N/A                All                * Firms: > US$
Services                                                                      100,000
* Individuals: >
US$ 50,000
* All Sole Source
* All TORs
I      Totals include taxes and contingencies.
2      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
3      N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
4      Community subprojects
5      Community subprojects and start-up grants



Page 46
Disbursement
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of three years. The project is expected to be completed
by March 1, 2004, and the project's Closing Date is September 30, 2004. The allocation of loan proceeds by
disbursement category is shown in Table C.
The Minister of Agrarian Development would open a Special Account in US Dollars and fourteen sub-accounts in
Reais (one for each participating State) with Banco do Brasil. The authorized allocation would be equivalent to
EUR20.5 million. After the initial deposit of the authorized amount in the Special Account, amounts defined in the
respective state Annual Operating Plan will be transferred to the sub-accounts of the participating States. The STUs
will approve finds for transfer directly to the beneficiary communities, via the financial agent chosen by the
community association.
The STUs may draw from the Special Account an amount sufficient to meet eligible expenditures for a period of 60
days or less. This modification from standards Special Account procedures is necessary since the majority of
expenditures under this project are small and numerous local currency expenditures throughout the States which
require sufficient time to complete expenditure accounting.
Disbursements for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for
goods and works exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above US$ 100,000
equivalent; and with individuals above US$ 50,000. The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be
maintained by the STUs in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted from the STUs to the Bank in
Washington with copy to the MDA. Simultaneously, the STUs would send to the Bank's Recife Office a copy of
SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as well as updated information on the
status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank, the
MDA and the STUs to maintain a cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the agreement (convenio) between
the STU and the community association. This contribution would be computed as part of counterpart finance of the
project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the Operational Manual, would be completed
by a designated community representative. They would be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor
inputs, and would be subject to project audit procedures.
The financial management system of the MDA was reviewed during project preparation for compliance with
ODI 1.02 concerning Financial Management and was found to be satisfactory. An action plan to make this project
eligible for Project Management Reporting (PMR) has been agreed with the Borrower and its implementation would
be completed within four months of project effectiveness. This is a follow-up project to Loan 4147-BR, under
which financial management and internal controls are satisfictory. All participating States in the proposed p:oject
also have ongoing Bank loans under which audit compliance is satisfactory.



Page 47
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Project Category
Expenditure Category             Project Cost in    Financing  Allocation of
EUR million    Percentage    Loan Proceeds
in EUR million
0. Land                                           173.7            0%           0.0
1. Grants for Community Subproects (investments,  206.2          90%          184.7
technical assistance and start-up grants)
2. Institutional Strengthenin (technical assistance,  12.6       100%          12.6
training and publicity)
3. Proiect Evaluation and Dissemination (by the     8.0          100%           8.0
Federal Government)
4.(a) Project Administration                       16.4           20.0%         3.2
4.(b) Field SuRervision and Monitoring              9.4           50.0%         4.8
5. Fee                                              2.2          100%           2.2
6. Premia for Interest Rate Caps                    0.0            0%           0.0
7. Unallocated                                      7.9            -            2.7
Total     436.4           50%         218.2



Page 48
Annex 8
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned            Actual
(At fnal PCD stage)
US$300,000       US$280,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned            Actual
(At fnal PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         8               26
First Bank mission (identification)             03/28/98        03/28/98
Appraisal mission departure                     12/16/98        05/09/00  (completed)
Negotiations                                    05/24/00        06/20/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/00        02/28/01
Prepared by: Brazilian Federal Minister of Agrarian Development and Participating States
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Luis Coirolo, Team Leader, LCSES
Joachim von Amsberg, LCC5C
Edward Bresnyan, LCSES
Joao Barbosa de Lucena, LCSRE
Tulio Barbosa, LCSRE
Peer Reviewers:
Hans Binswanger, Sector Director, Agriculture and Environment, AFTRE
Klaus Deininger, Economist, DECRG



Page 49
Annex 9
Brazil
Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project hmplementation Plan
*  Draft Operational Manuals for Participating States
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Sector Issues and Concept
*  Land Distribution and Markets
*  Current Land Reform Program
*  Comparison of Approaches
*  Advantages of Community-based Land Reform
*  Incentives under Community-based Land Reform
*  Pilot Approach
-  Project Economic and Financial Analysis
i  Cost-Benefit Analysis
* Farm Income Analysis
e  Summary of Cost Comparison with Administrative Land Reform Approach
-  Fiscal Impact
*  Project Implementation Arrangements
-  Community Organizations
•  State Technical Units (STUs) and State Land Institutes
-  Minister of Agrarian Development
-  NGOs
-  Institutional Capacity
-  Project Monitoring
*  Project Database
*  Monitoring Activities
*  Project Reporting
*  Project Supervision of Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Loan 4147-BR)
* World Bank Supervision Reports
C. Background Studies
*  Financial Options Study
*  Evaluation of Cedula da Terra in States of Bahia and Ceara
*  Evaluation of Land Reform Pilot of Ceari Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (Loan 3918-BR)
*  Assessment of Target Population, Production Systems and Land Prices in Parana
* Community-Based Land Reform in Brazil: Assessing the Selection Process
*  Community-Based Land Reform Implementation in Brazil: A New Way of Reaching Out to the
Marginalized? June 1999
*  Prelimiary Evaluation of Cedula da Terra Project, February 1999
*Including electronic files.



Page 50
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Difference between
expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions        disbursementsa
Project ID     FY   Botrower        Pupoae                                    IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P005559      1998  Brazil          (BF-R)SP.TSP                                45.00       0.00      0.00      44.27      41.27       0.00
P043871      1997  Brzil           (PLAUI)R.POVERTY                             30.00      0.00      0.00       4.44       2.44       0.00
P043873      1997  Brazi           AG TECH DEV.                                80.00       0.00       0.00     40.86      26.75       4.98
P055388      1999  Brazi           ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                         44.00      0.00       0.00     44.00      12.60       0.00
P006552      1997  Brazil          BAHIA MUN.DV                                100.00      0.00       0.00     79.24      56.24       3.84
P035728      1998  Brazl           BAHILAWTRRESOURCES                           51.00      0.00       0.00     35.94      27.02       0.00
P005564      1995  Brazil          BELO H M.TSP                                 99.00      0.00       0.00     28.60      24.59       0.90
P037828      1996  Brazil          BR(PR)R.POVERTY                             175.00      0.00       0.00    112.79      94.79       0.00
P058129      1999  Brazil          BREMER. FIRE PREVENTION                      15.00      0.00       0.00     13.85       9.85       0.00
P006474      1996  Brazil          BRLANDMGT3(SAOPAULO)                         55.00      0.00       0.00     53.00      21.50       5.00
P006524      1994  Brazil          BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                      160.00      0,00       9.70     22.04      31.74      26.74
P008541      1993  Brazil          BRWTR O]PLN(SP/PR/FED)                      245.00      0.00       9.30      5.88      15.18       5.71
P054120      1999  Brazil          BR- AIDS&STDControl                         165.00      000        0.00    103.48      47.23       0.00
P043874      1999  Brazil          BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE-VIGISUS            100.00      000      0o00       87.22      50.97       0.00
P050763      1999  Brazil          BR- Fundescola2                             202.03      0.00      0.00     140.14     -17.36       0.00
P050762      1998  Brazil          BR- Fundescda 1                             62.50       0.00      0.00       6.33     -10.53       0.00
POD6554      1998  Brazil          BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM-REFORSUS          300.00       0.00      0.00     186.36     186.36       0.00
P005543      1994  Brail           BR- MINASGERAISBASICEDU.                    150.00      0.00       0.00     13.48      13.48       0.00
P006558      1994  Brazil          BR- PARANABASICEDUC                          96.00      0.00      0.00      11.38      11.38       0.00
P038947      1998  Brazil          BR- SC.&TECH3                               155.00      0.00       000     128.13      83.13       0.00
P008449      2000  Brazil          CEARAWTRMGT                                 136.00      0.00      0.00     130.00      16.18       0.00
P046052      1997  Brazil          CEARAWTR PILOT                               9.60       0.00      0.00       5.86       5.86       5.86
P048357      1998  Brazl           CEN.BANK TAL                                20.00       0.00      0.00       7.31       7.31       0.00
P006438      1995  Brazil          Ceaa Urban Development &Water Raource      140.00       0.00      0.00      30.95      30.95       0.58
P039200      2000  Brazil          ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)              43.40       0.00      0.00      43.40       0.50       0.00
P006522      1994  Brazil          ESP.SANTO WATER                             154.00      0.00      54.00     18.29      72.29       3.58
P006532      1997  Brazil          FED HVVY DECENTR                           300.00       0.00      0.00     178.00     166.00       0.00
P038895      1996  Brazl           FED.WTRMGT                                  198.00      0.00       0.00    141.85      86.99       6.85
P005549      1998  Brazil          GASSCTRDEVPROJECT                           130.00      0.00       0.00     36.94      36.94       0.00
P062619      2000  Brazil          INSSREFLIL                                    5.05      0.00       0.00      464        1.39       0.00
P006475      1997  Brazil          LAND RFM PILOT                               90.00      0.00       0.00     38.17      27.68       0.00
P051701      1998  Brazil          MARANHAO R.POVERTY                          80.00       000        0.00     21.94     -18.06       0.00
P005505      1992  Brazil          MATOGROSSONATRES                           205.00       0.00      0.00      38.91     38.91        0.00
POD6547      1993  Brazil          METROTRANSP. RC                             128.50      0.00      0.00       0.29      0.29        0.00
P048870      1997  Brazil          MTSTATE PRIV.                               45.00       0.00      0.00       5.00       5.00       0.00
P035741      2000  Brazil          NATL ENV 2                                   15.00      0.00      0.00      14.11      -0.89       0.00
P006453       1990  Brazil         NE IRRIG I                                  210.00      000       69.00     13.41      82.41      59.40
P080776      2000  Brazil          NE Microfinance Development                  50.00      0.00       0.00     49.50       0.00       0.00
P042565      1998  Brazil          PARAIBA R.POVERTY                           60.00       0.00      0.00      40.45       8.15       0.00
P057910      1998  Braw            PENSION REFORM LIL                           5.00       0.00      0.00       4.71      4.71        0.00
P039199      2000  Brazil          PROSANEAR2                                   30.30      0.00       0.00     30.30       0.00       0.00
P042566      1997  Brazl           R.POVERTY(PE)                                39.00      0.00      0,00       868        6.58      0°00
P038896      1997  Brazil          R.POVERTY(RGN)                              24.00       0.00      0.00       6.95       5.35       0.00
P040028      1996  Brazil          RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                       350.00       0.00     50.00      35.31      60.31      35.31
P038882      1995  Brazil          RECFE M.TSP                                 102.00      0.00       000      54.13      48.62       0.00
P034578      1997  Brazil          RGS HWY MGT                                 70.00       0.00      0.00      56.09      38.09      10.09
P043868      1997  Brazil          RGS LAND MGTiPOVERTY                        100.00      0.00       0.00     84.00      40.69       0.00
P043421      1998  Brazil          RJ M.TRANSITPRJ.                           186.00       0.00      0.00     174.62     155.81       0.00
P008454      1992  BrazI           RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                        187.00      0.00       0.00     26.28      26.28       0.00
P035717      1995  Brazil          RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                          106.00      0.00       0.00     17.10      14.60       0.00
P038884      1995  Brazil          RURAL POV.-CEARA                             70.00      0.00      0.00       6.16      4.16        0.00
P038885      1995  Brazil          RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                          36.00       0.00       0.00      2.11       1.11       0.00
P048869      1999  Brazil          SALVADORURBANTRANS                         150.00       000       000      144.52      32.02       0.00
P043420      1998  Bramzil         WATER S.MOD.2                              150.00       0.00       0.00    148.29     103.53      53.32
Total:     5,903.38      0.00     192.00   2,785.70   1,860.39    221.26



Page 51
BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval      Company                    Loan      Equity   Qansi    Partic    Loan   Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998             Arteb                      20.00       7.00     0.00    20.00    20.00     7.00      0.00    20.00
1999             AutoBAn                    35.00       0.00    0.00     31.00    19.25     0.00     0.00     16.64
1993             BACELL                      6.00      15.70    0.00      16.20    6.00    15.70     0.00     16.20
1998             BSC                        11.53       0.00     0.00     6.18    11.53     0.00     0.00      6.18
1990/91/92       Bahia Sul                   0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1996             Banco Bradesco             14.26       0.00    0.00      19.57    14.26    0.00     0.00     19.57
1997             Bompreco                   22.92       0.00     5.00     0.00    22.92     0.00      5.00     0.00
1991             Bradesco-Bahia              1.50       0.00    0.00      0.00     1.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1991             Bradesco-Eucatex            6.25       0.00     0.00     0.00     6.25     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995             Bradesco-Hering             7.50       0.00     0.00     0.00     7.50     0.00     0.00      0.00
1991             Bradesco-Petrofl            7.50       0.00     0.00     0.00     7.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1991             Bradesco-Romi               0.40       0.40     0.00     0.00     0.40     0.40      0.00     0.00
1995             Brahma - BRA               15.00       0.00     5.00    24.60    15.00     0.00      5.00    24.60
1993/96          CEVAL                       0.00      10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00      0.00     0.00
1994/96          CHAPECO                    15.00       0.00    0.00      5.00    15.00     0.00      0.00     5.00
1973/78/83       CODEMIN                     0.00       0.40    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.40      0.00     0.00
1992             CRP-Caderi                  0.00       0.68    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.68     0.00      0.00
1995             Cambuhy/MC                 13.13       0.00    0.00      0.00    13.13     0.00     0.00      0.00
1997             Copesul                    32.50       0.00    0.00    141.43    32.50     0.00     0.00    141.43
1993/97/00       Coteminas                   0.00       0.53    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.53     0.00      0.00
1980/92          DENPASA                     0.00       0.00     0.12     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.05     0.00
1998             Dixie Toga                  0.00      15.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    15.00     0.00      0.00
1987/96/97       Duratex                    20.64       0.00     0.00    59.93    20.64     0.00      0.00    59.93
1990             ENGEPOL                     0.44       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.44     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999             Eliane                     32.00       0.00    13.00     0.00    32.00     0.00     13.00     0.00
1998             Empesea                     5.00       0.00    10.00     0.00     5.00     0.00     10.00     0.00
2000             Fleury                      9.00       0.00     6.00      0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998             Fosfertil                  20.00       0.00     0.00    45.00    18.15     0.00      0.00    40.85
1998             Fras-le                    10.00       0.00    10.00     0.00    10.00     0.00     6.70      0.00
1994             GAVEA                       8.13       0.00     5.50     0.00     8.13     0.00      5.50     0.00
1994             GP Capital                  0.00      10.39     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.39     0.00      0.00
1995/96/98       Globocabo                   0.00       9.91     0.00     0.00     0.00     9.91     0.00      0.00
1997             Guilmana-Amorim            27.75       0.00     0.00    71.84    27.75     0.00      0.00    71.84
1998             Icatu Equity                0.00      30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.39     0.00      0.00
1999             Innova SA                  20.00       5.00     0.00    60.00    11.50     5.00      0.00    34.50
1980/87/97       Ipiranga                   37.33       0.00     0.00    111.82    37.33    0.00      0.00    111.82
1999             Itaberaba                   0.00       0.00     5.34     0.00     0.00     0.00      5.34     0.00
1999             JOSAPAR                    13.00       0.00     7.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995             LATASA - Brazil            10.33       0.00     0.00      1.00    10.33    0.00      0.00      1.00
1996/97          Lightel                     0.00       8.17     0.00     0.00     0.00     8.17      0.00     0.00
1995             Lojas Americana            20.00       0.00     5.00     8.00    20.00     0.00      5.00     8.00
1987/92/96       MBR                         0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1993             Macedo Alimentos            9.04       0.00     5.00     0.00     9.04     0.00      5.00     0.00
1996             Mallory                     5.82       0.00     0.00     0.00     5.82     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:   764.02     139.98   120.79    912.55   705.36   114.37    104.42    866.49



Page 52
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                           Loan       Equity       Quasi      Partic
2000                     BBA                              50,000.00        0.00        0.00    50,000.00
1997                     CTBC                             35,000.00       0.00        0.00   150,000.00
1999                     Cibrmsec                             0.00        0.00     7,500.00       0.00
1998                     FSA                              35,000.00    10,000.00      0.00    45,000.00
1998                     Fras-le                              0.00        0.00        0.00    15,000.00
1996                     Globocabo II                         0.00        0.00        0.00    38,000.00
1998                     Ipiranga-RI 2                        0.00        0.00       92.07        0.00
1999                     MBR LTDP                         20,000.00    5,000.00       0.00   115,000.00
1996                     Oxiteno/Ethylo                       0.00        0.00     5,000.00       0.00
2000                     Portobello II                        0.00         0.00       0.00     5,000.00
1998                     Randon                               0.00        0.00        0.00    15,000.00
1997                     SP Alpargatas 11                     0.00        0.00        0.00    30,000.00
2000                     Sanaritano                       20,000.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
2000                     Sepetiba                         27,000.00        0.00    6,000.00    18,000.00
1998                     Unibanco                         40,000.00       0.00        0.00   250,000.00
Total Pending Commitinent:      227,000.00    15,000.00    18,592.07   731,000.00



Page 53
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Amrica   middle-
Btszfi  & Carlb.  Income      Development diamond'
11999- 
Population, mid-year mllIons)                      168.1       509       573                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aas neho, LVS                       4,420     3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billios)                     742.7     1,955     2,811
Avergg annual grwth, 1993-99
Po >uo (%)                                            1.4       1.6       1.4
laborbfrce (%J                                       2.1       2-5       2.1     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Mt  recent esmate (laest year available, 93-9)                                    capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populafon below naflonelpoveoty linea)
Urban population fN of totatpopulation)                31        75        76
Llt expectancy at birth (Yrs)                          67        70        70
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 live birhs)                 33        31        27
Child nrrnutrlWtl (% ofahe under                        6         8         7               Access to safe water
Ac:sss to improved water source (% otPopulatlon)       ..        75        78
ibtracy (% of populatio ag I5i)                        15        12        10
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschoo-agepopuakua)         125       113       109       -     razil
Male                                                 .-        ..        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1579     1989      1998      199
GDP (US$ billions)                         226.0   448.8      787.1    791.4
Gross domestic investment/GDIP              22.8    24.8       21.3      21.0                     Trade
Eqpofts of goods and seriAces/GDP            7.1      8.2       7A        9.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  20.7     28.0      18.6      21.7
Gross natro savingWGP                       18.0     25.0      18.3      18.8
Current account balancelGDP                 -4.7      0.4      -4.3      -3.1     Domestc
Interest paymentlGDP                         2.1      0.9       1.4       1.5    SDomest                      Investment
Total debtlGDP                              27.3     25.5      29.5      28.0      avngs    +
Total debt servicelexports                  62.8    36.3       735      120.8
Present value of debtlGDP.                    ..       ..      27.9
Present value of 4ebteports                   ..       ..    337.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  .1989-49   1998  .1999   1999403
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9      2.6     -0,1       1.0       4.0         -Brazil
GNP per cpita                       0.9      0.7      -1.4      -2.6      2.8               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and servces        8.9      4.2      0.2      -6.5       5.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 11.0      8.5       8.4       8.4    10
Industry                                    40.6    42.7       28.8      31.7      5
Manufacturing                             31.0    29.5        22.7      22.7     0
Services                                    48.3    48.8       82.8      59.9      -     94
Private consumpton                          69.5     57.8      63.6      62.8    _10
General govemment consumption                9.7    14.3       17.8      15.6              -GDl   -0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.2      5.0      10.1       9.0
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1998     Growth of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                  3.4      2.9       0.0       9.5    40
Industry                                     2.3      2.1      -1.3      -1.7
Manufacturing                               1.9      1.1      -2.0      -0.7    20
Services                                     3.4      2.7       0.8       1.3
Private consumption                          19       5.8      -3.4       9        0     9    s
General government consumption               6.4    -2.0        2.1       -9.3
Gross domestc investment                    -0.1      2.4       0.1      -8.9    20
Imports of goods and services               -1.4     12.4       8.9    -17.4            -     Eoorts      e-Impors
Gross national product                       2.9      2.2       0.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 54
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic JoIIcos                           1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(5% Change)                                                                     2.500
Consumer prices                                   1,430.7      2.7       8.6    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                      56.5  1,322.5       3.9      11.3    1,500
1.000
Government finance                                                               soo
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o 
Current revenue                              ..       ..      20.4     21.9              94   95  90   97  g9    9
Current budget balance                       ..       ..      -4.4      -5.2             -    GDP deflator  -'O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..      -5.5      -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  34,375    51,140   48,011      75,000
Coffee                                      ..   1,803      2,576    2,441
Soybeans                                     ..   3,647     4,755    3,784                               _   _
Manufactures                                 ..  17,575    31,964   30,251
Total imports (cil                            ..  18,264    57,733   49,219 
Food                                         ,.   1,249     3,057    2,078     5,000
Fuel and energy                              ..   3,753     1,965    2,169
Capital goods                                ..  4,873    25,283   21,157           0     94  95   0   97  95   9
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      98        92       86
Import price index (1995=100)                ..       85        84       89                  * Exports    N Imparts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..    115         108       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP C%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services             16,708   36,394    55,473   51,887     0           _
Imports of goods and services            21,724   21,486    69,650   57,516         93
Resource balance                         -5,016   14,908   -14,177   -5,629    -1
Net income                                -5,479  -13,265   -21,217  -20,786    -2 
Net current transfers                         5   249  1,778  2,040                     11111
Current account balance                 -10,490    1,892   -33,616  -24,375
-4-
Financing items (net)                     7,703   -7,087    16,331   13,634
Changes in net reserves                   2,787    5,195    17,285   10,741    *s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    9,045    7,672    43,971    35,725
Conversion rate (DEC, JhcaUUS$)         9.79E-12  1.03E-6      1.1       1.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composltion of 1999 debt (US$ mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     61,327  114,532   232,004  221,792
IBRD                                    1,790    8,311     6,298    6,822                      k 6,822
IDA                                         0        0         0        0             02,4             :1,5
D,11,610
Total debtservice                         11,310   14,122    47,887   73,694                                  E: 9.804
IBRD                                      234    1,475     1,373    1,380
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            10       44        97
Official creditors                        436      223     4,911   -1,077
Private creditors                       5,236   -3,716    21,930  -15,796
Foreign directinvestment                2,419    1,267    31,913   26,916
Portfolio equity                            0        0       542    3,234                 F: 157,433
World Bank program
Commitments                               674      933     1,290    1,465     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             302      819     1,240    1,533      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       74      871       995      952     C - IMF                    G - Short4efm
Net fows                                  228     -52        245      580
Interest payments                         160     604       378       428
Net transfers                              67    -656       -133      153
Development Economics                                                                                           8125/00



