Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7037-BR
Loan Agreement
(Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project I)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 16, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7037-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 2001, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has been providing support for the Borrower’s Land Reform 
and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in connection with the loan agreement (4147-BR) 
between the Borrower and the Bank dated July 29, 1997;
WHEREAS (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each plan referred to in Section 3.09 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Banco Central" means 
Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower’s Central 
Bank;
(c)
"Beneficiary" means any civil association (associação civil) duly 
established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the Borrower’s laws, which: 
(i) has been selected to carry out a Community Subproject or Community Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined) in accordance with the selection criteria prescribed in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); and (ii) has obtained a Land Loan (as 
hereinafter defined) to purchase the necessary land for the carrying out of a 
aCommunity Subproject or Community Subprojects;
(d)
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part B of the 
Project
to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual;
(e)
"CSFAs" means Community Subproject Financial Agents, the financial 
institutions referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, appointed by the 
Borrower, through MDA (as hereinafter defined), to act as the Borrower’s financial 
agents in respect of Part B of the Project;
(f)
"CSFA Agreements" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.05 
(b) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period;
(h)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Grant" means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for the purposes of partially 
financing the cost of a Community Subproject;
(k)
"Grant Agreement" means each of the agreements, to be entered into among 
the CSFA, a Participating State (as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary, for the 
provision of a Grant;
(l)
"Land Loans" means the loans referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Land Loan Agreement" means each of the agreements, to be entered into 
between the LLFA (as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary, for the provision of a 
Land Loan;
(n)
"LLFAs" means the Land Loan Financial Agents, the financial institutions 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, appointed by the Borrower, through 
MDA, to act as the Borrower’s financial agents in respect of Part A of the Project;
(o)
"LLFA Agreements" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which 
said Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;
(q)
"MDA" means Ministério do Desenvolvimento Agrário, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Agrarian Development, the Project’s overall executing agency;
(r)
"MIS" means the Monitoring and Information System referred to in Section 
Page  3
3.08 of this Agreement;
(s)
"NTU" means National Technical Unit, the Borrower’s Project coordinating 
unit referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(t)
"Operational Manual" means the manual and its respective technical 
annexes for the operation of the Project referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(u)
"Participating State" means the each of the following States: Alagoas, 
Bahia, Ceará, Espírito Santo, Maranhão, Minas Gerais, Paraíba, Paraná, Pernambuco, 
Piauí, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Sergipe which has 
entered into a Participation Arrangement (as hereinafter defined) not later than 
twelve months after the Effective Date; and the term “Participating States” means all 
such States collectively;
(v)
"Participation Arrangements" means any of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(w)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(x)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated June 27, 2000 from the 
Borrower’s Minister of Agrarian Development to the Bank with respect to the timetable 
and monitoring indicators for the Project;
(y)
"PRONAF" means Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura 
Familiar, the Borrower’s National Program for the Strengthening of Family Agriculture 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 1,946 of June 28, 1996, as amended;
(z)
"State" means the Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in the 
Borrower’s Constitution; and the term "States" means collectively all such 
subdivisions;
(aa)
"State Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to in the 
relevant provision of the Participation Arrangements;
(bb)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(cc)
"STU" means the State Technical Coordination Unit referred to in the 
relevant provision of the Participation Arrangements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
eighteen million one hundred ninety thousand Euro (EUR218,190,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any 
premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to two million one hundred eighty one thousand nine hundred Euro (EUR2,181,900).  
The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
such fee.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(b) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, 
at the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on 
the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty first 
(21st) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-eleventh (1/11) 
of said Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining 
outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after June 15, 2014, the Borrower shall 
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Page  5
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The Minister of Agrarian Development of the Borrower, and the 
person or persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall, through MDA: (a) carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with the 
participation of the Participating States; and (b) carry out Part E of the Project; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental and land management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through MDA, shall carry out the Project, or cause 
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank (the Operational Manual), describing the priority areas to benefit from 
Project activities, and containing, inter alia, the overall operating procedures for 
the execution of the Project, including: (a) the operating procedures for regulating 
the acquisition of land under Part A of the Project, including the financial terms and 
conditions for the repayment of such land; (b) the procedures and criteria related to 
training, technical assistance, environmental protection and other activities to be 
carried out under the Project; (c) the criteria and procedures for the selection, and 
the procedures for the carrying out, of the Community Subprojects; and (d) the 
standard form of a Grant Agreement. In case of any conflict between the provisions of 
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement 
shall prevail.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of ensuring sufficient provision of funds for 
Part A of the Project, but  without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower, through MDA, shall, by not later than March 31 of each 
calendar year of Project implementation, submit evidence satisfactory to the Bank that 
an amount of not less than $50,000,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of 
$200,000,000 equivalent, has been committed and is available for the purposes of 
financing such Part of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MDA, shall:
(a)
Enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank (the LLFA Agreements), 
with financial institutions acceptable to the Bank (the LLFAs), such agreements to 
provide, inter alia, that the LLFAs shall:
(i)
serve as the financial agents of the Borrower, through MDA, for 
purposes of making loans (the Land Loans) to Beneficiaries under 
Part A of the Project;
(ii)
enter into loan agreements with each Beneficiary (the Land Loan 
Agreements) providing for Land Loans only upon receiving the 
relevant STU’s concurrence as provided in the relevant provision 
of the respective Participation Arrangement, such Land Loan 
Agreements to have terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, provisions entitling LLFA to suspend or 
terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Land Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Land Loan Agreement; 
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Land 
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof; and
Page  6
(iv)
enter into each of the Participation Arrangements pursuant to 
paragraph (c) of this Section.
(b)
Enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank (the CSFA Agreements), 
with financial institutions acceptable to the Bank (the CSFAs), such agreements to 
provide, inter alia, that the CSFAs shall:
(i)
serve as the financial agents of the Borrower for purposes of 
making grants (the Grants) to Beneficiaries under Part B of the 
Project out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(ii)
upon approval of the STU, enter into a grant agreement with each 
of the Beneficiaries (the Grant Agreement) to finance up to ninety 
percent (90%) of the costs of a Community Subproject which shall 
be carried out by the Beneficiary, such Grant Agreement to have 
the terms and conditions set forth in the standard form included 
in the Operational Manual; 
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Grant 
Agreements or any provision thereof; 
(iv) 
(A) whenever a Community Subproject requires under the provisions 
of the Operational Manual the undertaking of environmental 
protection measures: submit to MDA for the approval of MDA and the 
Bank the corresponding environmental assessment, as such 
assessment shall have been prepared in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) whenever a Community 
Subproject requires the undertaking of environmental protection 
measures pursuant to the preceding subparagraph, cause the  
Beneficiary to carry out the mitigation measures provided in the 
corresponding environmental assessment in a manner and within a 
timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and
(v)
enter into each of the Participation Arrangements pursuant to 
paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c)
Enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
Participating State, CSFA and LLFA (the Participation Arrangements) for the purposes 
of:
(i)
providing for the relationship and collaboration between each 
Participating State, CSFA, and LLFA in respect of the carrying out 
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, respectively, as provided, 
inter alia, in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Operational 
Manual; and
(ii)
making available, to each Participating State the proceeds  of the 
Loan required for the carrying out of such Participating State’s 
activities under Parts B, C and D of the Project.
(d)
Promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens 
to interfere with the progress of the carrying out of its obligations under the 
Participation Arrangements or the accomplishment of its objectives.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the LLFA Agreements, the CSFA Agreements and the Participation 
Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any such agreements (or arrangements, as 
the case may be), or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through MDA, shall take the necessary measures in 
order to ensure that Beneficiaries, in respect of PRONAF have access to it on the same 
terms and conditions extended to other PRONAF participants.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through MDA, shall put into effect  a monitoring and 
information system (the MIS), satisfactory to the Bank, to provide information on 
Project implementation, which shall include, inter alia, the information required to 
verify the Project’s implementation performance in relation to the indicators set 
forth in the Project Monitoring Letter, and any report required to be prepared under 
the Project. 
Page  7
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MDA, shall:
(a)
In the month of October during each year of Project implementation, 
beginning in October of the year 2001, prepare on the basis of the MIS and furnish to 
the Bank an annual report on the progress in the implementation of the Project, such 
report to: (i) take into consideration the benchmarks set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter; (ii) include an assessment carried out, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, on whether the procurement of goods and works, and the 
employment of consultants required under Community Subprojects were carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iii) include the 
progress reports received from the Participating States; and (iv) be of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
In the month of November during each year of Project implementation, 
beginning in November of the year 2001, hold an annual review jointly with the Bank 
(except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section), such review to be based on the 
report referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken 
all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower, through MDA, and 
the Bank, during the review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action 
to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review; 
(c)
In the month of March of the year 2003, or when an amount of the Loan 
equivalent to 50% (fifty percent) thereof shall have been disbursed by the Borrower to 
pay for expenditures under the Project, whichever comes earlier, review (the mid-term 
review), the reports issued pursuant to (a) of this Section and the progress achieved 
in the implementation of Project, such progress to be measured against the benchmarks 
set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken 
all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, during 
the review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of 
the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the 
manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review; and
(d)
In the month of November of each year during Project implementation, 
except for the first year, furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (including 
Community Subprojects) to be carried out during the next calendar year, including the 
cost thereof, and consolidating the State Annual Operating Plans, and, thereafter, 
carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of such Annual Operating Plan and 
this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through MDA, shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain, during Project implementation, a Project coordinating unit (the NTU) with 
staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, and with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MDA, shall, with the assistance of 
the Participating States:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
        (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower  on  said  plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Page  8
Special Account audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section
4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the CSFA Agreements and the LLFA Agreements have become effective;
(b)
that at least three Participation Arrangements with Participating States 
have been entered into among the parties thereto and each relevant STU has been 
established; 
(c)
that evidence has been submitted to the Bank that an amount of not less 
than $12,000,000 equivalent has been committed and is available for the purposes of 
the initial financing of Part A of the Project;
(d)
that the NTU has been established;
(e)
that the Operational Manual has been adopted by MDA and by the same 
Participating States as referred to in paragraph (b) above; 
(f)
that the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of Project 
implementation has been approved by the Bank; and 
(g)
that the MIS has been adopted by MDA and by the same Participating States 
as referred to in paragraph (b) above.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been registered by Banco 
Central.
Section 5.03. The date October 16, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section  6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco "P" - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(55-61) 412-1740
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Page  10
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério do Desenvolvimento Agrário
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "A" - 8º andar
70054-090, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Rubens Antônio Barbosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
HONORARY WITNESS
By /s/ Raul Belens Jungmann Pinto
Minister of Agrarian Development
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Euro)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants under Part B of 
the Project
  184,660,000 
90% of the cost of 
the respective Community 
Subproject
(2)
Consultants’ Services
   12,640,000 100%
and publicity and training 
expenditures under Parts C 
and D of the Project
Page  11
(3)
Consultants’ Services
    8,000,000 100%
under Part E of the Project
(4)
Administrative Costs:
(a)
incremental costs
    3,240,000 20%
(b)
Project supervision   4,760,000
50%
costs
(5)
Fee
    2,181,900 Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this                      
Agreement
(6)
Premia for Interest Rate
- 0 -
Amount due under 
Caps and Interest Rate
Section 2.09 (c) of
Collars
this Agreement
 (7)
Unallocated
    2,708,100
TOTAL
218,190,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "incremental costs" means costs incurred by each STU in 
connection with the carrying out of its respective activities under the Project, such 
as land title verification, environmental analyses of Community Subprojects, computer 
services and office equipment; and
(b)
the term Project supervision costs means those costs incurred by each STU 
in connection with the field supervision of Community Subprojects, such as travel 
expenses and per diems.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR650,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above  on 
account of payments made for expenditures made before that date but after July 1, 2000 
a date which is latter than or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later; 
(b)
payments for expenditures for an activity in a State unless such State 
has entered into a Participation Arrangement;
(c)
payments under a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement shall have 
been entered into between the parties thereto; and
(d)
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments under a Grant for a 
Community Subproject estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and works 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 each; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than the equivalent of $50,000; and (c) services of 
consulting firms costing less than the equivalent $100,000; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro in a commercial bank a special 
deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Page  12
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
EUR20,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Page  13
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to EUR13,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of EUR39,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special  Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account other than that in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special  Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of EUR48,600,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  14
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of rural poverty by 
providing the Participating States’ rural poor with access to land and funds for other 
investments; and (b) the gathering and evaluation of experience derived from Project 
implementation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Land Acquisition
Provision of loans for land acquisition by the Beneficiaries for the carrying 
out of Community Subprojects. 
Part B:
Community Subprojects
Financing of small scale and pilot community investments, including technical 
assistance, consisting, inter alia, of: (a) infrastructure investments such as rural 
water supply, electrification, local road improvements and construction of small 
bridges; (b) social investments such as construction and rehabilitation of schools and 
health posts; and (c) other investments such as small-scale community agro-processing, 
purchase of agricultural equipment, development of minor irrigation schemes, 
transportation, and purchase of building materials.
Part C:
Community Development Support and Project Dissemination at the 
Participating State Level
Strengthening of the quality and effectiveness of Project activities through: 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training for Beneficiaries and potential 
Beneficiaries in, inter alia, community mobilization and organization, preparation of 
Community Subprojects, and operation and maintenance of investments.
2.
Design and carrying out of information campaigns within the Participating 
States’ territory to disseminate information about the Project, through, inter alia, 
posters, radio spots, leaflets and videos.
3.
Exchange of information on the operation, maintenance and overall results of 
Community Subprojects within a Participating State, as well as among the Participating 
States. 
Part D:
Project Administration at the Participating State Level
Strengthening of the capacity of the STUs, their field offices and other 
agencies of the Participating States in respect of Project coordination, supervision 
and monitoring through the provision of technical assistance, training and office 
equipment and the financing of incremental costs.
Part E:
Project Evaluation and Dissemination at the Borrower’s Level
1.
Carrying out of an evaluation study of the impact of specific land reform 
programs (including an evaluation of the impact of the Project) conducted at the State 
and at the national levels.
2.
Carrying out of studies relating to land policy issues, including, inter alia, 
analysis of land prices, availability of lands for sale, land holdings by commercial 
banks, the effect of a market-assisted land reform on land markets, and institutional 
and financial options for the Borrower’s land reform program.
3.
Support for the activities to be carried out under the Project by the NTU 
through the provision of consultants’ services and data processing services.
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  15
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with 
this Part B.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part B.1:
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case.
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,400,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, works estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,400,000, 
may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. 
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works, financed by Grants under Part B of the Project for Community 
Subprojects costing up to $50,000 equivalent, to be
procured by a Beneficiary, may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as provided in paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) as detailed in the Operational Manual.
Page  16
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
Page  17
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
General Terms and Conditions of
Participation Arrangements 
Participation Arrangements shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, through 
MDA, shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including, but not limited to, the right to:
1.
Require the relevant Participating State to carry out (or cause to be carried 
out) its corresponding activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices, and to maintain adequate 
records.
2.
Require the relevant Participating State to carry out its corresponding 
activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in conformity with the Operational 
Manual, and the relevant State Annual Operating Plan referred to in paragraph 8 of 
this Schedule.
3.
Require that: (a) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
4.
Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and, as the case may be, the operation thereof, 
and any relevant records and documents.
5.
Obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the relevant Participating State.
6.
Suspend or terminate the right of the relevant Participating State to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Participating State to perform its 
obligations under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
7.
Require the relevant Participating State to establish and thereafter maintain 
during Project implementation, with adequate facilities and equipment, a technical 
coordination unit (the STU) with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, and with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including:
(a)
the responsibility for the overall coordination of the relevant 
Participating State’s participation in the implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia, the provision of support to, and the coordination of, the participation of 
other entities involved in the relevant Participating State’s activities under A, B, C 
and D of the Project;
(b)
with respect to each proposal for a Community Subproject, and without 
limitation to Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, evaluating the land tenure 
status of the land required for the Community Subproject in order to confirm that such 
land and rights in respect of land are physically and legally available for the 
purposes of such proposed Community Subproject and that the negotiated land purchase 
price is consistent with the existing local land market conditions; and
Page  18
(c)
upon such confirmation, and the fulfillment of any other requirement set 
forth in the Operational Manual for the making of a Land Loan, informing LLFA of its 
concurrence with the provision of a Land Loan.
8.
Require that the relevant Participating State shall, in the month of October of 
each year during Project implementation, furnish to MDA an annual plan satisfactory to 
MDA (a State Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities 
(and their relation to the objectives of the Project) to be carried out during the 
next calendar year, including the costs thereof.
9.
Require that the relevant Participating State shall adopt the MIS.
10.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, require that the relevant Participating State shall:
(a)
in the months of March and September of each year during Project 
implementation furnish to MDA reports on the progress in the implementation of the 
relevant Participating State’s activities under A, B, C and D of the Project during 
the previous six months which shall be based on the indicators set forth in the 
Project Monitoring Letter, such reports to be of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
in a month eighteen months after the Effective Date, furnish to MDA a 
report on the overall progress in the implementation of the relevant Participating 
State’s activities under A, B, C and D of the Project which shall be based on the 
targets and indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter, such report to be 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(c)
in the months of May and November of each year during Project 
implementation hold reviews jointly with MDA and the Bank, such reviews to be based on 
the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be 
taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the relevant Participating 
State, MDA, and the Bank during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as 
necessary for the efficient execution of its corresponding activities under the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews; and
(d)
in a month sixteen months after the Effective Date, hold a mid-term 
review jointly with MDA and the Bank, such review to be based on the report referred 
to in paragraph (b) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action 
which shall have been agreed upon by the relevant Participating State, MDA, and the 
Bank during the review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient 
execution of its corresponding activities under the Project or the achievement of its 
objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon 
during such review.
11.
Require that the relevant Participating State shall assist MDA, in the 
preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement and the 
report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as provided in the 
Operational Manual.
12.
Require that the relevant Participating State shall promptly inform MDA, of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the carrying 
out of its activities under the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by the relevant Participating State under the respective 
relevant Participation Arrangement.
