Report No. PIC2386
Project Name                        Poland-Roads II Project (@)
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Transportation
Project ID                          PLPA8593
Borrower                            The Government of Poland (GOP)
Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
(MTME): General Directorate of Roads (GDDP)
Contact Person: Mr. Marek Rolla
Wspolna 1/3
00-921 Warsaw
Phone: 48-22-30 08 94
Fax: 48-2-625 34 67
Date This PID Prepared              April 17, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date            May 1997 (tentative: not yet scheduled)
Projected Board Date                October-1997 (tentative: not yet scheduled)
Country/Sector Background.
1.      The Polish economy continues to improve but, as identified in
the Country Assistance Strategy for Poland, reviewed by the Board
on November 17, 1994, the very strength of the recovery has
worsened infrastructure bottlenecks, including significant road
bottlenecks, which are an impediment to private sector development
and foreign investment.
2.      Poland is making good progress in adjusting its transport
system to the demands of a market economy which has altered the
requirements of users' demands, the geographic location of economic
activity, and the structure of the economy as activities are
transferred from the public to the private sector. The new economic
system guarantees users' right to select the most flexible,
fastest, and efficient systems of production and services. Road
transport is increasing significantly under the new economic
system.
3.      The rapid development of road transport in every sphere of
economic activity, in particular the use of heavy trucks, is
creating problems for a road network that is not designed for the
axle loads and vehicles required by the developing Polish economy
and the emphasis on closer integration with the EU and European
transit transport. To enable the transport sector to adopt to this
changing environment, a deep transformation of policies,
objectives, structures, and operations is underway. This would
adapt the road network and its administration to the geography,
volume, and characteristics of the growing traffic.
4.      For the road sector, traffic has been growing by 5.5 - 6.5
percent per year (about 7 percent in the main corridors) and is



approaching traffic volumes and characteristics similar to those in
EU countries of similar size and population (e.g., Spain). The past
scarcity of funds has led to an important backlog of road
maintenance and rehabilitation, and neglect of road safety. With
more and heavier traffic (from 10 ton single axle load to the EU's
11.5 tons), the inadequate maintenance of the road network has
resulted in a gradual destruction of roads and bridges,
particularly during the hard and long Polish winters. There is an
urgent need to rehabilitate and reinforce the network, to improve
road maintenance, to construct urban bypasses, and to upgrade roads
including their urban sections. Under the Bank's ongoing Roads
Project (Loan 3564-POL), several initiatives have been taken and
the General Directorate of Public Roads' (GDDP - the implementing
agency of the Borrower) managerial capability has significantly
improved. The Government recognizes that important actions in the
road sector are necessary, both in terms of physical improvements
and in the area of road user charges; the latter should move closer
to Western European levels. Hence, GDDP's budget is now being
increased.
Project Objectives.
5.      The main objective of the proposed project is to support and
speed up the modernization of the road sector operation along the
lines of environmental and traffic safety policies initiated by the
Government under the Roads project. In particular, the project
would: (i) improve the high priority National Road Network; (ii)
study and solve the rutting situation of the network; (iii) promote
the competitive capacity of domestic contractors through
improvement of their technical, managerial, and financial capacity;
(iv) improve the road safety situation; (v) adjust road user
charges for different vehicle types to cover the economic costs
incurred by each type of vehicles, and to achieve a well balanced
combined transport (e.g. with the railway) framework; and (vi)
offer advice on the operation, management, and administration of
road safety and its coordination with the National Police.
Project Description.
6.      The project would cover the following three main areas of
policy, institutional and physical investment:
1. POLICY: (i) adequate maintenance and strengthening of high
priority roads, including bridges, and winter maintenance, with
adequate budgets; (ii) review and adjustment of road user charge
levels and distribution between different user groups in order to
achieve a reasonable balance between costs and revenues; (iii)
further action on the road axle-load policy, initiated under the
Roads project in consonance with that in Western Europe; and (iv)
establishment of a leasing policy to enhance and speed up
privatization of local contractors.
2. INSTITUTIONAL: (i) further restructuring, privatization, and
development of the road contracting industry, focusing on the
improvement of its managerial, financial and technical capacity,
- 2-



and on the establishment of professional associations to enhance
their competitiveness; (ii) improvement of the coordination,
collaboration and operation of the Agencies (Transport, GDDP,
Ministry of Interior, National Police) on the ongoing road safety
program; and (iii) assistance to the vehicle inspection center
network as a part of road safety and environmental measures.
3. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE: any part of the agreed GDDP 1996-2000
investment program consisting of: (i) rehabilitation, upgrading,
realignment, and resurfacing of priority roads sections and their
crossings through cities; (ii) emergency reconstruction and
upgrading of 3 bridges, and construction of 3 new major bridges;
(iii) construction of 12 bypasses around congested cities; (iv)
acquisition of road maintenance equipment, vehicles and materials
and road safety equipment, vehicles and materials; and (v)
technical assistance (TA) and training for the ongoing road safety
program, in the fields of management, planning, pavement and
maintenance systems, protection of the environment, modern design
and construction techniques, and further privatization of local
consultants and contractors.
Project Financing.
7.      The US$220 million foreign exchange cost of the project,
estimated at 50.4 percent of the US$436.3 million total cost
(including contingencies), would be financed by the proposed loan.
Local costs would be financed by the Polish Government through GDDP
and MTME.
Project Preparation and Implementation.
8.      The project is based on GDDP's 1996-2000 investment program.
It would be implemented during 1998-2002 through GDDP, except for
the road safety program, which is directly under the responsibility
of MTME. GDDP and MTME have developed significant procurement and
implementation capacity under the Bank's Transport and Roads
Projects. This capacity should be used under the proposed project.
Preparation of this project is taking place in close cooperation
with the Polish Ecological Club, a non governmental organization on
environment.
Project Sustainability.
9.      The sustainability of the project has been demonstrated by
the success of the ongoing Roads Project. That project has proven
that GDDP has both the capability and adequate budgetary resources
to implement the project. The long term average needs for
maintenance of the existing road network are estimated to be US$450
million with actual budgets in the range of US$350 million
independent of the motorway program. The fuel tax generates more
than US$1 (one) billion annually, of which less than 30 percent is
invested in the highway system. Allocation of additional revenue
for routine and periodic maintenance is a high priority of the
proposed project, and one of its main objectives.
- 3 -



Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement.
10       The Bank has been involved in the sector since the late
1980's. The Transport Project (Loan 3193-POL), completed on
December 31, 1996, satisfactorily designed and established a
Pavement Management System under which all road investments,
including those of the proposed project, are scrutinized and
economically justified. The ongoing Roads Project is expected to be
satisfactorily completed in December 1998. It supports the
modernization and transformation of the road network, having
established procurement under open competitive bidding for road
works and goods, commercialization and eventual privatization of
local road construction contractors and consultants, and urgent
improvement of the road safety situation.
11.     Experience acquired in the preparation and implementation of
the above projects highlights the need to focus at an early stage
on environmental issues to get timely clearance from relevant
authorities and avoid delays in project processing. The improvement
in public procurement regulations owes much to the Bank's efforts
in this area, and it is expected that the new procurement law
recently enacted would make procurement management easier under the
proposed project. Other main lessons learned from these projects
are the importance of: (i) keeping the project objectives clear and
simple in order to facilitate implementation and monitoring; (ii)
guaranteeing counterpart funds on time in order to avoid delays or
even failures; and (iii) providing advice on construction
techniques to the domestic contractors to increase their
competitiveness. All these lessons have been taken into
consideration in designing the proposed project.
Poverty Category.
12.     Not Applicable.
Environmental Aspects.
13.     Most of the construction consists of
rehabilitation/strengthening of existing roads and, therefore, does
not raise any particular environmental concern. Furthermore, the
project would enhance the environment through improved quality of
existing infrastructure with less erosion, dust and noise, and
improved drainage systems and traffic safety. However, due to the
inclusion of 12 bypasses and 3 new bridges, the project has been
classified under Environmental Category A. All required
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) are underway, and every
engineering study would include measures to reduce and mitigate any
adverse environmental impact of the modernization works during and
after construction. Frequent contacts and full agreement have taken
place with several ecological nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
such as "Friends of Earth" and the "Polish Ecological Club", and
every environmental decision has been and will be taken under the
umbrella of the Polish Ministry of Environmental Protection and
National Resources. The legislation on environment from the Polish
Ministry of Environment is highly satisfactory and, since recently,
- 4 -



well enforced.
Project Benefits.
14.     The project would reduce: (i) vehicle operating costs; (ii)
future costly reconstruction by timely and adequate maintenance;
(iii) road accidents, and (iv) construction costs by exposing the
local construction industry to open competition and competitive
bidding procedures. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the civil
works included in the project has been estimated at 25 percent.
Significant environmental benefits would be achieved (para. 13).
Overall, the benefits of the investment should be reflected in a
cost-effective and environmentally sustainable road network leading
to a more competitive position for Polish trade and to a better
road safety situation.
Contact Point:           Luis F. Revuelta, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2440
Fax No.: (202) 477-0301
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 9, 1997.
- 5 -



