Page  1
CONFORMED COPY      
LOAN NUMBER 4236-0 POL 
4236-1 POL
Loan Agreement
(Roads II Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 27, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4236-0 POL 
4236-1 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, date November 27, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(b)
“Deutsche Mark Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in 
Deutsche Mark according to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
“DODPs” means the regional administrations of GDDP (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
“Dollar Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in United 
States Dollars according to Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“GDDP” means the General Directorate of Public Roads under MTME (as 
hereinafter defined);
(f)
“MTME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy;
(g)
“PIP” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Plan for the Project, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(h)
“PMU” means the Project Monitoring Unit, established within MTME, and to 
be maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Road Investment Program” means GDDP’s investment program for the years 
1996-2000, approved by the Borrower in July 1996; and
(j)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement, and “Dollar Special Account” and “DEM Special Account” mean the 
Special Account in Dollars and the Special Account in Deutsche Marks, respectively, 
referred to in said Section.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement: (a) an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) (the Dollar Tranche); and (b) an amount 
equal to two hundred seventy million four hundred thousand Deutsche Mark 
(DEM 270,400,000)  (the DEM Tranche). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
the National Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, only in the case of use of a commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, two special deposit 
accounts: (i) the first in Dollars (the Dollar Special Account) in respect of amounts 
withdrawn from the Dollar Tranche of the Loan; and (ii) the second in Deutsche Mark 
(the DEM Special Account) in respect of amounts to be withdrawn from the Deutsche Mark 
Tranche of the Loan. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars or Deutsche Mark for value the first day of such 
Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value 
the Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first 
day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
Page  4
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MTME and GDDP with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental, administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Accounts 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
Page  5
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Transport and
   Maritime Economy
ul. Chalubinskiego 4/6
00-928 Warsaw
Republic of Poland
Telex:
816651
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By /s/ E. Morawski 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ B. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
% of
Dollar Tranche
DEM Tranche
  Expenditures
Category
  Allocated
 Allocated
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) Under 
100,000,000
180,260,000
60%
           Parts A (1)
           and (2) of
           the Project
(b) Under
 30,500,000
 54,980,000
80%
           Part A (3) of
           the Project
(2)
Goods
 12,500,000
 22,530,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
 1,000,000
 1,800,000
100% 
services and
training
Page  7
(4)
Unallocated
 6,000,000
10,830,000
__________
__________
TOTAL
      150,000,000
      270,400,000
      ===========
      ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$12,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after August 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, with the exception of each contract 
awarded on the basis of direct contracting procedures; (b) works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; and (c) services under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each 
for individual consultants.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a)  to support and accelerate the 
modernization of the Borrower’s road network in accordance with GDDP’s Road Investment 
Program; and (b) to undertake measures for emergency repair and reconstruction of 
roads and bridges damaged by floods in the year 1997.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
(1)
Rehabilitation, upgrading, realignment and resurfacing of priority roads 
identified under the PIP.
(2)
Reconstruction, upgrading of bridges and construction of new bridges and 
bypasses identified under the PIP.
(3)
Emergency reconstruction and repair works of roads and bridges damaged as a 
result of flooding in the year 1997.
Part B:
Provision of equipment, materials and vehicles for road maintenance and road 
safety.
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (1) MTME, GDDP and DODPs for: 
(a) road maintenance; (b) road construction and design methods; (c) a road safety 
program; and (d) modernization of selected road construction and road engineering 
firms; and (2) the Borrower’s National Police for a road safety program.
* * *
Page  8
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Dollar Tranche
DEM Tranche
Payment of Principal
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
     (Expressed in Dollars)*
(Expressed in DEMs)*
May 15, 2003
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2003
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2004
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2004
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2005
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2005
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2006
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2006
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2007
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2007
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2008
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2008
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2009
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2009
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2010
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2010
        7.500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2011
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
November 15, 2011
        7,500,000
13,520,000 
May 15, 2012
        7,500,000
13,520,000
November 15, 2012
        7,500,000
13,520,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in each currency to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  9
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Items of works under Part A (3) of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of not more than $5,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $56,000,000 may be procured on the basis of national competitive bidding 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Minor Works
Works under Part A (3) estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $11,000,000, may 
be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the work, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.
Force Account
Items of works under Part A (3) of the Project which satisfy any of the criteria 
stated in paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and which are estimated to cost the 
equivalent of not more than $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000 may be carried out by the DODPs under force 
account procedures to be agreed upon with the Bank.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which the Borrower and the Bank agree that they are proprietary and which 
cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $1,000,000 may be procured on 
the basis of direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost not more than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, and the first two contracts to be awarded according to the 
Page  10
procedures referred to in Part C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured on the basis of direct 
contracting procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(ii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f) 
and 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set for in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
Page  11
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through MTME and GDDP in accordance 
with the requirements and details set forth or referred to in the PIP.
2.
Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU with 
resources and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall assign to 
it responsibility for overall Project management and coordination in close cooperation 
with the Coordinating Unit established in GDDP.
3.
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank for review and comment: (a) by December 1, 1997, and 
subsequently by December 1 of each calendar year draft annual work programs and budget 
for the Project; and (b) quarterly reports on the implementation of every component of 
the Project, each to be submitted within one month from the end of the period covered 
by it.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure the preparation, on the basis of technical principles 
satisfactory to the Bank, of: (a) an environmental assessment for each new road or 
bridge proposed for construction under Part A (1) and Part A (2) of the Project; and 
(b) flood mitigation measures for each road or bridge included in Part A (3) of the 
Project.
5.
In order to ensure appropriate maintenance of the national road network, the 
Borrower shall ensure, in line with its Road Funding Law of August 29, 1997, that: (a) 
road maintenance works will be accorded the highest priority in GDDP’s budgetary 
resources; and (b) budgetary allocation for road maintenance will be gradually 
increased so as to ensure the undertaking of such maintenance in a manner and at such 
levels that are technically and economically justifiable.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about August 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the carrying out of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocations” means: (i) the amount of $7,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Dollar Tranche in the Loan Account and deposited into the Dollar 
Special Account; and (ii) the amount DEM 12,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Deutsche 
Mark Tranche in the Loan Account and deposited into the DEM Special Account, all 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocations shall be limited to the amount of 
$3,500,000 and the amount of DEM 6,300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Dollar Tranche and the Deutsche Mark Tranche, respectively, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $12,000,000 with 
respect to the Dollar Tranche and DEM 24,500,000 with respect to the Deutsche Mark 
Tranche.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Dollar or the DEM Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation for said Special Account.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Dollar or DEM Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits 
into such Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Dollar or DEM 
Special Account, 
as the case may be, such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the relevant 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Dollar or the DEM Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
Page  13
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocations. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Dollar or the DEM Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Dollar or the DEM Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
