Report No. PID10962
Project Name             Chad-Critical Electricity and Water (@)
Services Rehabilitation Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment;
Urban Water Supply
Project ID               TDPE77240
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Implementing Agency
Address SOCIETE TCHADIENNE D'EAU ET
D'ELECTRICITE (STEE)
Address: 11 Rue du colonel Largeau.
P.O.Box 044 N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Director General
Tel: 235-52-23-42
Fax: 235-52-21-34
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        February 25, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 25, 2002
Bank Approval Date       April 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Electricity and water-supply services in Chad are provided by Societe
Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite (STEE), which depends entirely on
thermal generation for the production of electricity (hydro-resources are
practically non-existent), with petroleum products imported over long
distances from Cameroon and Nigeria. Because Chad is landlocked, the cost
of a barrel of oil in the capital of N'Djamena is US$ 60 today compared to
the international price of oil of US$ 20/barrel. Peak electricity
consumption in Chad is less than 25 MW, of which about 20 MW is generated
in N'Djamena, Chad's capital and the remainder in three smaller urban
centers (Moundou, Sahr, and Abeche). There are about 7,500 electricity
customers in a country of 7 million persons. In other words, only 1.5% of
Chad's population benefits from electricity. About 6,000 clients are
located in the capital N'Djamena where the access rate is about 10%.
Existing generation and distribution facilities are for the most part very
old (between 20 to 35 years), inefficient and unreliable, with access to
spare parts a constant problem. In spite of having one of the highest
tariffs in the world, the electricity and water utility is financially
bankrupt, partly because of high fuel costs, but also because of obsolete
facilities, and past inefficient management. Financial and management
problems have led to no new investment in the sector and very poor quality
of service. Government Strategy. These issues are well known to GOC and
Chad's partners. In 1997, GOC therefore adopted a two-pronged strategy
that focused : (1) first, on institutional reform and (2) then on new
investment. To this end GOC decided to: (a) enact and implement a new
regulatory framework allowing for private sector participation and more
accountability and transparency; (b) transfer the management and operation
responsibilities of the utility to the private sector (international and



local entities); (c) increase generating capacity; (d) rehabilitate and
extend the distribution network; (e) reduce costs through availability of
cheaper fuel; and (f) provide credit facilities to the new customers for
the up-front connection charges. While substantial progress has been made
on institutional reform, there has hardly been any new investment in the
sectors. As a result, black-outs are the rule rather than the exception,
thermal units have burnt down and water-borne diseases have spread,
because the water-supply system depends on electricity. These factors
have contributed to a crisis in the sectors and failure to quickly provide
support could lead to a collapse of the electricity and water-supply
services in the capital city of N'Djamena and some urban centers. Measures
need to be taken both in the short-term to ward off the financial and
technical collapse of the sectors, as well in the longer-term, to lower
costs and increase access to electricity and safe drinking water and
lessen the ruinous burden on the budget and the economy. For the longer
term, Chad has already prepared detailed 5-year investment program
consisting of: (i) the expansion of the electricity and water-supply
production facilities of N'Djamena and of several secondary towns,
including expansion of the thermal station at Farcha near N'Djamena; (ii)
the expansion of the electricity and water-supply distribution systems in
N'Djamena and the secondary towns; (iii) the completion of the
construction of the oil pipeline from the Sedigi oil field (near Lake
Chad) to N'Djamena; (iv) the construction of a gas pipeline from Sedigi to
N'Djamena to use Sedigi's associated gas and of gas line extensions to
users; (v) the selection of a private investor to finance and operate the
mini-refinery; (vi) rural electrification; (vii) procurement of equipment
and spare-parts; and (viii) technical assistance and
capacity-building.There is however urgent investment needed in the
short-run. This emergency assistance entails: (i) the repair and
maintenance of several existing and very old thermal units and water
production facilities and the purchase of new generating units (about 20
MW) and pumps; (ii) the repair and maintenance of electricity and
water-supply distribution networks; (iii) the purchase of spare-parts;
(iv) the purchase of water-purifying chemicals; (v) the implementation of
measures to reduce electricity and water-supply losses, both technical and
non-technical; (vi) the financial restructuring of STEE ; and (vii)
preparation of the next phase of the investment program.
2. Objectives
The objectives of this critical electricity and water services
rehabilitation project are to:1. Address the current crisis in the
electricity and water supply sectors which is crippling economic activity
and hindering the delivery of social services.2. Reduce costs. 3. Promote
private sector participation in the energy and water-supply sectors.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Supporting the proposed emergency project is justified in view of the
substantial reforms the government has undertaken in the electricity and
water supply sectors over the last two years. This comes at critical time
when the economy has again begun to expand because of investments in the
oil sector.
4. Description
The proposed project supports: (a) the extension and rehabilitation of the
electricity and water supply facilities in N'Djamena, Moundou, Sahr and
-2 -



Abeche; (b) purchase of spare parts and water-purifying chemicals; (c)
reduction of technical and non-technical losses; (d) conversion of power
generating facilities to fuel oil; (e) financial restructuring of STEE;
and (f) preparation of the next phase of the investment program.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $4.00
IBRD
IDA                      $30.00
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY
FOR DEVELOPMENT          $5.00
Total Project Cost       $39.00
6. Implementation
Project to be implemented by STEE with the assistance of the private
operator.
7. Sustainability
The management of Chad's electricity and water sectors is carried out by
an experienced private operator under a long-term contract.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(i) the need for investments to be made and operated by the private
sector; (ii) the need for regular and timely investment in the sectors;
and (iii) the need for capacity-building.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are minor negative environmental impacts
which are currently being assessed. Most environmental impacts are
positive.
11. Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Michel E. Layec
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3231
Fax: 202-473-5123
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-3 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 22, 2002.
- 4 -



