Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24112 CD
PROJECr APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.4 MILLION
(US$ 54.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FORA
CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 23, 2002
Energy Team
Infrastructure Gtoup
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 14, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
US$1 = 740 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD           Agence Franqaise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
CAC           Commission d'Attribution des Marches
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEMAC         Communaute Economnique et Monetaire de l'Afrique Centrale
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CTAM          Comite Technique d'Attribution des Marches (Technical Committee on Procurement)
CTSPU         Cellule Technique de Suivi du Programme d'Urgence (Project Monitoring and Oversight
Committee)
EA            Environmental Assessment
EIB           European Investment Bank
EOI           Expression of Interest
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERR           Economic Rate of Retum
FM            Financial Management
FMAR          Financial Management Assessment Report
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GEE           Global Environment Facility
GPN           General Procurement Notice
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           Intemational Development Association
EECI          Intemational Engineering and Consulting Inc.
IPP           Independent Power Producer
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEW           Ministry of Environment and Water
MME           Ministry of Mines and Energy
MP            Manual of Procedures
MPDE          Ministry of Plan, Development and Cooperation
MW            Megawatts
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-govemmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
OFNAR        National Roads Office (Office National des Routes)
PP            Procurement Plan
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS          Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
SEA           Strategic Environmental Assessment
SPN           Specific Procurement Notice
SRFP          Standard Request for Proposal
SSA           Strategic Social Assessment
STEE          Societ Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite
UNDB          United Nations Development Business
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director.  Ali Khadr
Sector Manager/Director.  Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Michel Layec



CHAD
CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                         15
2. Financial                                                                        15
3. Technical                                                                        17
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    19
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   22
2. Critical risks                                                                   23



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   23
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          24
2. Other                                                                            24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 46
Annex 5: Financial Analysis                                                            50
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  63
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          77
Annex 11: Current Situation and Investment Programs in the Electricity and Water Sectors  79
Annex 12: Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Summary                           86
Annex 13: Contractual and Implementation Arrangements                                  89
MAP(S)
IBRD 31932



CHAD
CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTEG
Date: August 23, 2002                            Team Leader: Michel E. Layec
Sector Manager/Director: Ananda Covindassamy     Sector(s): Power (70%), Water supply (30%)
Country Manager/Director: Ali Khadr              Theme(s): Infrastructure services for private sector
Project ID: P077240                              develop (P), Other financial and private sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  development (P), Other urban development (P), Other
public sector governance (S)
ProjectFinancingData
] Loan     [XI Credit   [] Grant    [] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 54.8
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      0.90           0.00          0.90
IDA                                                           3.90          50.90         54.80
Total:                                                        4.80          50.90         55.70
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Responsible agency: SOCIETE TCHADEENNE D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE (STEE)
Address: 11 Rue du Colonel Largeau. P.O. Box 044, N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Director General
Tel: 235-52-2342           Fax: 235-52-21-34           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie
Address: P. 0. Box 816, N'Djamena
Contact Person: Minister of Mines and Energy
Tel: 235-51-36-65          Fax: 235-51-33-25           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005
Annual      7.60     36.60      10.60
Cumulative     7.60     44.20      54.80
Project implementation period: October 2002 - September 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2005
acs FAG7 Fam. Pu Mu. AOW 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objectives of the project are to:
*     Secure the delivery of basic electricity and water supply services and prevent the collapse of the
system particularly in N'jamena;
*     Reduce the costs of electricity and water supply services; and
*     Support increased private sector participation in the sectors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators listed below will measure the impact of the project on Chad's
electricity and water supply sectors. They will reflect the increased reliability and quality of the
electricity and water supply services, improved performance of the utility, and reduction in the cost of the
services. These indicators will be regularly published in reports of the Govemrnment, the local utility,
STEE (Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite), and the Bank.
* Increasing reliability of Electricity Services. Capacity of electricity generating units of STEE
increased from 12.8 MW in 2002 to 22.5 MW in 2004; number of days of interruption in the
distribution of electricity services reduced from 250 days/year in 2002 to 50 days in 2004 and in
water-supply from 180 days to 60 days.
*   Improving the quality of Electricity and Water Supply Services to customers. Average time to correct
problems reduced from 10 days 2002 to 2 days in 2004.
* Reducing electricity Generating Costs. Average generating costs reduced by 60%, from US$ 16
cents/kWh (FCFA 1 19/kWh) in 2001 to US$6.5 cents (FCFA 47/kWh) in 2004.
* Reducing technical and non-technical losses. Technical and non-technical losses reduced from 29%
in 2002 to 24% in 2004 for electricity and from 30% to 20% in water-supply.
* Number of connections without or damaged meters reduced from 2,300 (electricity) and 3,000
(water) in 2002 to 1,300 (electricity) and 1,500 (water) in 2004.
* Number of connections increased from 16,224 to 17,324 in electricity and from 20,503 to 21,200 in
water in 2004.
*   Number of water boreholes operating increases from 19 in 2002 to 26 in 2004
* Strengthening the regulatory environment for the electricity and water supply sectors. Enacting all
the enabling decrees and establishing the regulatory institutions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19365-CD Date of latest CAS discussion: May 23, 2000
The project supports one of the main objectives of the CAS of removing constraints to economic
growth by, among other things, supporting reforms to improve the environment for private sector growth
and. removing infrastructure bottlenecks in the transport, commnunications, electricity and water supply,
and rural development sectors. The project also supports a second CAS objective of establishing the
foundations for improved delivery of basic social services. Presentation of the project was delayed from
FYOI until reforms in the sectors were well underway and the Government's intentions were clarified.
-2 -



The scope of the project and the corresponding amount of the Credit were adjusted in large part to reflect
critical needs in the water sector. With the expected arrival of oil revenues in early 2004, Chad will be in
a good position to accelerate sustainable economic growth and increase expenditures targeted at poverty
alleviation, that are central to its development objectives as spelt out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) to be presented to the Board together with a proposed fifth Structural Adjustment Credit.
But this cannot be done without restoration of critical services, such as the supply of reliable and less
costly electricity and water.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A. Main Sector Issues
Chad's electricity sector is characterized by very high tariffs, limited access to electricity
services, as well as by unreliable and poor quality service (including very frequent load shedding). Until
recently, Government interference has been constant and investment has been sorely lacking. The very
limited facilities are old and inefficient and have not been adequately maintained due to financial
problems and poor management. In spite of having one of the highest electricity tariffs in the world
(US$0.25/kWh, two or three times higher that average tariffs in the sub-region), the electricity and water
supply sectors are financially bankrupt, partly because of high fuel costs, but also because of obsolete
facilities, and inefficient management.
Electricity and water supply services in Chad are provided by the concessionaire STEE, a
state-owned company. In 2000 the Government and STEE contracted with the private consortium of
Vivendi-Dietsmann (Vivendi is an internationally known investor and operator of the electricity and
water sectors) to initially manage, then take full technical and financial responsibility for the provision of
electricity and water supply services in the current concession perimeter that includes the capital city of
NDjamena (which represents 80% of the country's electricity consumption) and eight small urban
centers. The utility depends entirely on thermal generation for the production of electricity and water
(hydro resources are practically nonexistent and renewable resources have not yet been tapped
significantly). The thernal generators run on imported petroleum products, transported by road over long
distances from Nigeria and Cameroon. Because Chad is landlocked, the cost of oil delivered to
N'Djamena today is over US$60/barrel compared with the international price of oil of US$25/barrel.
Peak electricity production in Chad is less than 25 MW, of which about 20 MW is generated in
N'Djamena, Chad's capital, and the remainder in five smaller urban centers - Moundou, Sahr, Abeche,
Bongor, and Faya-Largeau. (See map). There are about 16,400 electricity customers in a country of 7
million persons, so that only between 1% to 1.5% of Chad's population benefits from electricity. About
12,000 of these clients are located in N'Djamena where the access rate is about 14%. Existing generation
and distribution facilities are for the most part very old (between 25 to 35 years), inefficient and
unreliable, with spare parts a constant problem, and costly to operate as the facilities run on imported
diesel oil. Technical and non-technical losses are estimated at about 30% of generation (Annex 11).
In the water supply and sanitation sector, only about 30% of the urban population and 26% of
the rural population have access to safe water. STEE provides N'Djamena with water from boreholes that
tap an underground spring (ground water table) some 60 meters (m) deep. This source supplies 25,000
cubic meters (m3) of water per day through 15,000 connections (the number of water connections in the
secondary centers totals 5,500), when actual demand is for over 35,000 m3/day. There are also some 280
public water fountains, each serving about 500 persons. The access rate to water supply is estimated to be
about 48% in NDjamena and the tariff is relatively low at FCFA 170/m3 or US$0.23/m3 (about two
times lower than in the sub-region). Out of a total of 21 boreholes drilled since 1966, only 15 are
operating and of these only 5 are operating well. The water supply distribution system consists of 140
kilometers (kms) of pipe laid more than 30 years ago, with losses estimated at about 35% of production.
- 3 -



The lack of access to safe water is increasingly contributing to disease in N'Djamena and other urban
centers. As for sanitation, no formal sewerage systems exist in Chad.
B. Government Strategy
The Government's strategy since the early 1990s has consisted of the State developing a small
hydrocarbon field located north of Lake Chad at Sedigi (see map), transporting the oil via a 6" 350 km
long pipeline to N'Djamena, processing it in a mini-refinery (3,000 barrels per day (bpd)) and using about
20% of its output to fuel a thermal plant to be built in N'Djamena. Although work on this project
commenced in 1990, with financing from an engineering credit provided by IDA, the project is still not
completed. Several factors have delayed implementation of the Sedigi project, including: (a) political
tensions and civil strife and a deteriorating macroeconomic situation in the country; and (b) doubts about
the Government's ability to implement and operate the project. In 1997, the Government
reformulated its strategy and role by putting much greater emphasis on private sector participation. It
invited the private sector to participate in the construction and operation of the Sedigi petroleum project.
In the electricity and water supply sectors, with the encouragement of the Bank and other donors, the
Government adopted the principles that: (a) the delivery of electricity and water supply services by the
private sector was preferable to the situation where services were provided by a publicly owned utility,
and (b) a new private/public sector partnership should be implemented in which policies and regulations
are set by the Government while operational activities are carried out by the private sector.
Because of weak capacity, the preparation of new regulatory frameworks for the electricity and
water supply sectors and enactment of new legislation took two years. In 1999, a new electricity law and
a new water law were formulated (Annex 13). Initially, the Government decided to promote the
prpogressive privatization of electricity generation facilities through the selection of an Independent
Power Producer (IPP) for the new generation required, while another private operator would be
responsible for the remainder of STEE's activities (existing power generation facilities, distribution,
billing, and collection). After careful review of this option, however, and given the small size of the
system and lack of real investor interest, this approach was dropped. Instead, in 1999, the Government
requested bids for the concessioning of the generation and distribution activities carried out by STEE,
with two main criteria to select the concessionaire: (1) the level of tariff the private investor would be
willing to charge the retail consumer: and (2) the amount of financing the private sector investor would
bring to the table. Although several private companies had earlier indicated an interest, only one group of
companies (Vivendi-Dietsmann) submitted a bid. The bid called for the gradual privatization of STEE,
starting with a management contract and ending with a full concession (see Annex 13 for more details).
A 30-year contract with Vivendi was signed in January 2000 and Vivendi has been the Management
Contractor of STEE since the effectiveness of this contract in September 15, 2000.
During this period, the Government also prepared a long-term investment program for the
electricity and water supply sectors and submitted it to a group of donors for financing in November
2000. (See section C below). The donors who, in principle, were prepared to finance the whole program,
included the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the
African Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Kuwait Fund, and the World Bank
Group. However, some Government officials at that time felt that the energy crisis in Chad was not
treated with the urgency that was required either by STEE or the donors. As a result, Chad took two
decisions without consulting its external partners. First, the Government signed a contract with a small
private company located in Burkina and placed an order for three diesel units totaling 21 MW, without
competitive bidding and without secured financing. The second decision made by the Government was
to contract also on a sole-source basis with a Sudanese company, to develop the Sedigi oil field, construct
an oil pipeline to N'Djamena, and build a refinery. These decisions led to unfortunate results. The
Govermment could not find the funds to finance the purchase of the thermal units that had been ordered
- 4 -



and lost its initial deposit of nearly US$2.0 million. With regard to Sedigi, funds made available by the
Government of Taiwan were reassigned to the Sedigi project, and in 2001 construction of the production
facilities at the well-head at Sedigi was completed and much of the 325 kms of pipeline had been laid.
However a significant portion of the pipe welding has been found defective and may have to be re-done.
Also, the construction of the mini-refinery that would have refined Sedigi crude oil did not progress. In
order to complete the Sedigi project the Government is negotiating with private investors an agreement to
complete the whole project, including the refinery, by early 2004.
In 2001, in its anxiety to commission new generating facilities quickly, the Government accepted
a proposal from a consortium of private companies, to use the associated gas from the Sedigi project to
generate electricity for N'Djamena. The proposal was to install a 50 MW gas-operated electric generator
at the Sedigi oil field and build a 350 km transmission line to N'Djamena. Against the Bank Group's
advice, the Government signed a contract with consortium. The proposal from the consortium continues
to be technically and financially unsound and would fail to achieve the economic, social, and financial
objectives the Government has set for itself in the sectors. It is almost certain that, in its present form, the
contract will be rescinded.
C. Current Crisis and Action Plans
Failure by the Government to implement its strategy effectively and quickly in the electricity and
water supply sectors, and becoming distracted by ad hoc and uneconomical proposals, have led to the
current crisis in these sectors. Petroleum products continue to be imported at high costs and supplied
irregularly, thermal units have burned down, service interruptions have been constant, blackouts have
been a regular feature, and water-bome diseases have spread because the water supply system depends on
electricity to produce and distribute water. Without quick support to these sectors, the current situation
could lead to a collapse of the electricity and water supply services in N'Djamena. To contain this crisis
as well as to tackle the long-term issues, the Governnent has delineated a five-year investment program
to be carried out in two phases: a short-term action plan to ward off the technical and financial
collapse of the sectors, and a long-term action plan, to lower costs and tariffs significantly, increase
access to electricity and safe drinking water, and lessen the sectors' ruinous burden on the budget and the
economy.
In the Long-Term Action Plan, Chad's key strategic objectives remain that of reducing the
electricity tariffs and increasing access to electricity and water supply services. To achieve these
objectives, the Government is actively promoting completion of the Sedigi oil project, including
financing and construction of the refinery by a private operator, and has prepared a detailed investment
program consisting of: (i) the expansion of the electricity and water supply production facilities for
N'Djamena and of several secondary towns, including expansion of the power station at Farcha, on the
outskirts of N'Djamena; (ii) the expansion of electricity and water supply distribution systems in
N'Djamena and the secondary towns; (iii) the construction of a gas pipeline from Sedigi to N'Djamena
and of gas line extensions to users; (iv) rural electrification; and (v) technical assistance and capacity
building. The cost of this three-year, long-term investment program to be implemented over the
2004-2007 period is estimated at US$45-50 million.
Urgent investments are however needed in the short term to ward off the technical and financial
collapse of the electricity and water supply services. This emergency assistance entails the: (i) repair and
maintenance of several existing and very old thermal units (varying in age from 15 to 35 years) and water
production facilities and the replacement of some existing facilities with new electricity generating units
(about 20 MW), operating on fuel oil and crude oil, and pumps; (ii) conversion of some existing
generating units to operate on fuel oil or crude oil; (iii) repair and maintenance of electricity and water
supply distribution networks; (iv) purchase of spare parts; (v) purchase of water-purifying chemicals;
-5 -



(vi) implementation of technical and non-technical measures to reduce electricity and water supply
losses; (vii) rehabilitation of public street lighting in N'Djamena; (viii) temporary purchase of fuel for
STEE; (ix) retention of the current private sector operator; (x) capacity building and technical assistance;
and (xi) completion of various studies, including a tariff study and a water supply Master Plan for
N'Djamena, and implementation of the new 2000 regulatory frameworks for the electricity and water
supply sectors. The cost of this two-year investment program to be implemented over the 2002-2004
period is estimated at US$55.7 million. This short-term program will be implemented by STEE at the
same time as the private sector investors complete the construction of the Sedigi Pipeline and Refinery
project. (See paragraph below.) There is currently no market for the heavy fuel oil that would be
produced by the refinery, except to generate electricity. STEE plans to purchase this fuel oil for FCFA
60/liter, compared to FCFA 350/liter it now pays for imported petroleum products.
Given the size and condition of the public utility and the perceived high economic and political
risks, the Government is aware that the sectors will not be able to attract serious private investors.
Neither would a private partner be in a position to bring all the financing needed by the sectors (there
will be private sector financing for the refinery in the short run and for the electricity and water supply
sectors in the medium to long term). It has therefore chosen to come to IDA and other donors for
financing both the critical activities included in the short-termn action plan as well as the long-term
investment program. The assets created by this financing will be the patrimony of the State, but will be
operated, managed, and maintained by the strategic private partner, the Vivendi-Dietsmann consortium.
This private/public partnership strategy reflects the fact that the private sector is better equipped to bring
efficiency, but that the country will need to secure much of the financing for the short-term rehabilitation
program. The proposed investment, together with private sector management, is expected to guarantee a
sustained expansion of services, greater reliability, and lower costs, and to set the stage for increasing
private investments in these two sectors.
Already, with regard to Sedigi, the authorities are negotiating with foreign private investors, who
are prepared to finance, construct, and operate a refinery, and to take over the management and operation
of the oil production facilities and the oil pipeline. Current plans call for the refinery and all related
facilities, including the pipeline, to become operational by January 2004. If these plans materialize, the
new power generating plants will be using the heavy fuel oil produced by the refinery and producing
electricity at much lower cost. Some of the Sedigi associated gas could also be used at a later stage to
generate electricity and for other industrial and commercial purposes, such as fabricating bricks, in
substitution for biomass fuels, the resource base of which is being depleted rapidly. Present plans call for
a 4" gas pipeline to be built by January 2005, between Sedigi and N'Djamena, with the assistance of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) and other donors, including the World Bank Group.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will address five of the more urgent electricity and water supply problems
consistent with the Government's overall strategy in the context of an investment program to be carried
out in two phases (see section 2 above).
*   First, the project will prevent the collapse of the electricity and water supply sectors;
*   Second, it will begin the process of making electricity more affordable; the objective of the
Government is to reduce the average tariff from FCFA 185/kWh (US$0.25/kWh) to FCFA
100/kWh (US$0.14/kWh) over a ten-year period. This should also make the economy more
competitive;
*   Third, the project will set the foundation for increasing access, including provision of services to
some of the poorer urban and rural populations; unless service disruptions and blackouts are
avoided and unless power is made less expensive, increasing access would be impossible;
-6 -



*   Fourth, the project will support the on-going process of making the electricity and the water
supply sectors financially viable and sustainable in the medium term by: (i) providing continuous
and reliable electricity and water supply; (ii) reducing technical losses; (iii) reducing operating
costs by utilizing heavy fuel or crude oil rather than the more expensive diesel oil currently being
used; (iv) reducing operating costs by using new and more efficient power generators; and (v)
increasing efficiency in billing and the collection of bills; and
*   Fifth, the project will help accelerate privatization of the electricity and water supply sectors; the
project has been designed to take advantage of the private sector management arrangement
currently in place that is working well so far. Should the electricity and water supply systems
collapse, however, as projected in the next 18 months if no immediate action is taken, not only
would this adversely affect economic activity and health of the population in N'Djamena, and
lead to a withdrawal of the private sector partner in these sectors, but it would also have an
impact on the feasibility of private sector initiatives in other economic sectors. The proposed
project is the first IDA operation in the power and water supply sectors in Chad and comes after
years of limited donor presence in these sectors.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-     % of
; -;; :;-; ... - -- - - Component  -  -- -   ;-  -:: - ....Costs  % of  financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
Component A. Rehabilitation and Expansion of electricity  29.66  53.2   29.22     53.3
production, transmission and distribution systems in
N'Djamena and in six smaller urban centers *
(implemented by STEENivendi).
Component B. Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water   7.44      13.3      7.28     13.3
Supply Systems in N'Djamena and in eight smaller urban
centers ** (implemented by STEE/Vivendi).
Component C. Improvement in the technical, cormmercial  8.94   16.0      8.85     16.1
and environmental performance of STEE and personnel
safety standards (implemented by STEE/Vivendi).
Component D. 1 Preparatory activities required to prepare  0.69  1.2     0.66       1.2
the second phase of the investment program (implemented
by STEE/Vivendi).
Component D.2 Preparatory activities required to prepare  2.12  3.8      2.02       3.7
the second phase of the investment program and Project
Oversight (implemented by the CTSPU).
Physical and Price Contingencies                     4.89       8.8      4.80       8.8
Refund of Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         2.00       3.6      2.00       3.6
Total Project Costs  55.74   100.0     54.83     100.0
Total Financing Required   55.74     100.0    54.83      100.0
-7 -



Costs include STEE's imnplementation costs but exclude taxes and duties related to implementation of the project
components, estimated at about US$12 million.
* Urban centers benefiting from the electricity component include: N'Djamnena, Abeche, Bongor, Doba,
Faya-Largeau, Moundou, and Sarh.
** Urban centers benefiting from the water supply component include: N'Djamena, Abeche, Bongor,
Doba, Fianga, Mao, Moundou, Moussoro, and Sarh.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project include:
*      Setting the stage for an increasing private sector role by first physically and financially
rehabilitating and restructuring the electricity and water supply sectors;
*      Creating an environment conducive to future private investment in the electricity and water
supply sectors by supporting the enactment of enabling decrees necessary to set up autonomous
regulatory bodies as envisaged in Law No. 014/PR/99 and Law No. 016/PR/99.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary target population of the proposed project will be the existing consumers of
electricity and water supply in STEE's concession perimeter, mainly in N'Djamnena. The project will help
sustain systems that are projected to collapse and deny power and water supply to some 12,000 families
living primarily in N'Djamena, but also in Sarh, Moundou, Doba, Bongor, Abeche, Faya-Largeau,
Moussoro, and Fianga and to businesses that depend on electricity. The project will also provide
resources to connect industrial and commercial customers in the petroleum region as well as residential
customers; this should help STEE's finances. These consumers will receive least-cost, reliable, and good
quality electricity and water services. Adequate power supply with improved reliability will facilitate
economnic growth and set the stage for increased access. Private industrial and commercial entities will
benefit from cost-effective electricity, supply and reduced load shedding, anrd fewer blackouts and
brownouts will lessen the need for operating expensive back-up generators. The use of more efficient
generating units and of heavy fuel or crude oil, and the reduction in electricity and water supply losses,
would reduce the operating costs of STEE that would eventually translate into lower tariffs to
consumers. The implementation of the project together with the provision of cheaper petroleum products
would lead to a reduction and subsequent elimination of budgetary subsidies that could be redirected to
poverty alleviation and other social needs. Another important component of the project is the
rehabilitation of public street lighting in N'Djamena. This would: (i) improve security in the city; (ii)
allow small businesses to operate at night; and (iii) allow children from poor urban households to study
at night. Finally, the project will set the foundation for delivery of basic services to new customers and
poor customers who do not have access to these services today.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Agencies and Project Oversight
Implementing Agencies. STEE, the Concessionaire for the electricity and water supply sectors,
is the implementing agency for the project, except for the regulatory and other studies and the preparation
of the second phase of the investment program, which will be the responsibility of the Cellule Technique
de Suivi du Progamme d'Urgence'de la STEE (CTSPU - Project Monitoring and Oversight Committee)
-8 -



which is chaired by the Director of Energy in the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). STEE with the
assistance of Vivendi-Dietsmann, the private sector operator contracted by the Government and STEE to
manage the electricity and water supply sectors, will implement the project components 1, 2, 3, and
sub-components 4(a) of component 4. These activities account for 96% of the project costs. STEE has set
up a project implementation unit and assigned qualified staff. (See Annex 13). CTSPU will implement
sub-components 4 (b) of component 4; this represents about $2.2 million, or 4% of total costs.
Public street lighting in Chad is the responsibility of the municipalities. The project will finance
rehabilitation of the street lighting system in N'Djamena. Under the proposed project, an agreement has
been reached among the Government, the Municipality of N'Djamena, and STEE, whereby STEE will be
fully responsible for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the N'Djarnena street lighting system. A
Memorandum of Understanding is being entered into to lay out the implementation arrangements for this
sub-component.
Project Oversight. MME will be responsible for project oversight. Under Arrete No.
012/MMEP/2002 signed on March 25 2002, an inter-ministerial committee has been set up ("Cellule
Technique de Suivi du Programme d'Urgence de la STEE') to provide project oversight. The President of
the Committee is the Director of Energy of MME and includes the Director of Finance of STEE and the
respective Directors of Hydraulics in MEW, Prograrmming, Financing and Supervision of Programs and
Projects in MPDC, Forests and Enviromnental Protection in MEW and Budget in MEF. The Committee
will be strengthened by: (a) a procurement specialist who will review and approve all the procurement
done under the project; and (b) an engineering consultant who will review all the activities proposed and
carried out by the contractors and by STEE under the project. The Committee will also be responsible for
the regulatory, financial restructuring, and other studies required for the second phase of the investment
program.
Contractual Arrangements among the Republic of Chad, STEE, and Vivendi-Dietsmann.
Annex 13 provides a summary of the features of the contract among the Republic of Chad, STEE, and the
Vivendi-Dietsmann consortium, which was made effective September 15, 2000. Under this contract the
Government of Chad and STEE have provided Vivendi-Dietsmann full responsibility and autonomy to
manage Chad's electricity and water supply sectors. STEE by-laws, however, will need to be amended to
clarify in a formal way the specific roles for STEE's management. The contract is for a period of 30
years, divided into three phases: the first phase is a management contract in which the private operator
(Vivendi-Dietsmann) is paid a fixed management fee and a variable amount tied to performance of the
utility. During the management phase the fee is paid through donor financing. This phase is expected to
last another two years and cover the implementation period of the proposed critical investment project.
The second phase is an "affermage" phase under which the Management Contractor is financially
responsible for the operations of the electricity and water sectors and for the results of the utility in which
it will have a majority stake. Responsibility for financing investment will remain with the Republic of
Chad. The Management Contractor will be remunerated from the utility revenues. It will implement the
second phase of the investment program for the electricity and water supply sectors that will be
completed once these sectors are financially able to support a full privatization. During this phase, the
Sedigi refinery is expected to supply the utility with relatively cheap heavy fuel oil, and access to
services is expected to expand rapidly. The third phase is a full privatization phase ("full concession"),
under which the Management Contractor becomes the majority holder of the utility and assumes full
responsibility for the investment, financing, and management and operation of the electricity and water
supply facilities.



Implementation Period
Implementation of the proposed is expected to last two years, from October 2002 to September
2004. More than half the investments are in new electricity generating facilities which will be built on a
turn-key basis (including the 25-km transmission line linking N'Djamena's new power plant to the
distribution system) and acquired on an advance procurement basis. The bidding documents have been
finalized and a list of firms are pre-qualified. In addition, an agreement has been reached within the
Government that procurement under the proposed project will be streamlined, with only two Ministries
required to approve the contracts: MME and MEW.
The project (covering the October 2002-September 2004 period) is the first phase of a five-year
investment program. The second phase, covering the October 2004-August 2007 period, will aim at
increasing access to electricity and water supply services and further reducing costs and tariffs.
On-lending Arrangements
An IDA credit of US$54.8 million will be made to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA terms.
The Government will on lend to STEE in FCFA:
*   an amount representing the investments financed by IDA for the electricity sector, estimated at
the equivalent of about US$38.2 million of the IDA credit (69.7% of the credit) on the following
terms: (i) repayment period of 22 years; (ii) 7 years of grace; (iii) annual interest rate of 3/4 of
1% for the first 7 years-and 7 % thereafter; and
*   an arnount representing the investments financed by IDA for the water sector, estimated at the
equivalent of about US$7.6 million of the IDA credit (13.9% of the credit) on IDA terms.
The Republic of Chad will also provide in FCFA the equivalent of US$4.9 million (8.9% of the
credit) as an operational subsidy to STEE to cover the purchase of petroleum and of chemical products.
The Republic of Chad will provide a subsidy in FCFA the equivalent of US$1.8 million (3.2% of the
credit) to the Municipality of NDjamena to finance the rehabilitation of the city's street lighting system.
The MME will retain, in FCFA, the equivalent of about US$2.2 million (4.2% of the credit) to finance
studies, including regulatory studies, financial restructuring, the preparation of the next phase of
investment, and the costs of CTSPU.
Financial and Auditing Arrangements
STEE will have an adequate financial management system and acceptable financial management
policies and procedures by Credit effectiveness to manage all the project components, including the
activities implemented by the MME. On behalf of STEE and MME, STEE will: (a) establish and
maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA, adequate -accounts and records, including separate accounts, records,
and reports for the project; (b) engage independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit their accounts, the
project accounts, and the financial statements, in accordance with internationally acceptable auditing
standards and in such detail as IDA may request; and (c) undertake audits annually and submit these
reports to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. STEE's accounts were last certified by
an external auditor in 1997. The 1998 accounts were audited by an external auditor but not certified and
the 1999, 2000 and 2001 accounts have been completed but not yet audited.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
The MME and the CTSPU will be responsible for supervising and monitoring the project. In
carrying out its responsibilities, the CTSPU will submit to the Government and IDA within one month
after the end of each quarter: (a) a report including distinct reporting by STEE covering, inter alia,
- 10-



progress on physical implementation, procurement, financial commitments, and other elements of project
progress; (b) the CTSPU, representatives of STEE, and representatives of IDA are to meet at least once
every three months to review progress in project implementation, and a mid-term review would take
place approximately one year after credit effectiveness; and (c) the MME, with the assistance of CTSPU
and STEE, will prepare a Project Implementation Completion Report within six months after the credit
closing date.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A formal procurement assessment of the capacity of STEE has been carried out in accordance
with Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines dated August 11, 1998. On the basis of the
procurement capacity assessment, an action plan was finalized to build the immediate and long-term
capacity of the STEE to administer procurement needed for the program The following procurement
action plan was agreed upon with the Government and STEE: (i) preparing an acceptable Procurement
Plan, (a draft plan is available, see para below), and regular update of such plan, to reduce risks of
extension of project duration; (ii) developing a Bank-Government dialogue to adapt institutional rules
and practices as necessary to reduce risks of the lack of transparency; (iii) setting up a procurement
monitoring system, with adequate material resources and staffed with qualified and motivated
professionals to reduce the risks of low-quality bid documents requiring iterative revisions; (iv) providing
external technical assistance as necessary; and (v) ensuring proper technical and financial audits of the
procurement procedures and contracts management. Considering the immediate action plan to upgrade
its capacity to the level required by program, STEE falls in the average-risk zone. Based on this rating
and past experience with projects in Chad and other countries, the thresholds for prior review have been
set up as shown in Annex 6. The post review will be applied to at least 15% of the contracts not subject
to prior review.
Procurement Arrangements
In order to speed up implementation of the project, the Government has prepared a Decree
amending the Procurement Code that will simplify procurement procedures by delegating to a specific
tender board, Comite Technique d'Attribution des Marches (CTAM), under the MMEP, all prerogatives
of the national Commission d'Attribution des Marches (CAC) that was risking project implementation
delays due to its slow procurement processing. This Decree is limited to STEE and covers only the life
of the project. During assessment of the procurement capacity of STEE, the Bank assessed the relevance
and efficiency of this arrangement, in particular, in view of the need for a clear delineation between the
contracting agency and the awarding board.
Under the proposed arrangement, STEE would work through the CTAM, headed by the Director
of the Tender Board and comprising five representatives of the MMEP and STEE. STEE would prepare
bidding documents but not award contracts, which would be the responsibility of the CTAM. STEE
would, however, be responsible for monitoring the whole procurement program and the bulk of the
procurement (about 80%) that will be carried out in the first year.The Government and STEE have
confirmed that the Management Contractor and/or its affiliates will not bid for the provision of goods or
works, or provide consultancy services under the project.
Procurement Plan (PP)
STEE has prepared a detailed draft procurement plan for the two-year program, showing the
step-by-step procedures for procurement, contract packages for goods, works, and consultant services,
and the estimated costs for each package, procurement/selection method, and the activities which follow
procurement until completion. The final version of the PP would be submitted as part of PIP as a



condition of Credit effectiveness and be acceptable to the Bank. Each quarter, STEE will submit to IDA
for its non-objection, an updated version of the PP with the actual procurement activities for the past
month and revisions of the plan for the following months.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No-Project Alternative. The no-project alternative was considered, but it would result in a
further and drastic deterioration and likely collapse of the electricity and water supply services, creating
major problems for the modem sector of the economy and depriving the population of adequate
electricity and water. supply. In the absence of IDA financing, it is likely that a piecemeal approach
would have been followed by the Government, bringing about limited and short-lived improvements to
the operations of the utility as well as very costly solutions.
Private Sector Generation and Interconnection. With regard to new power generation
facilities, over the last two years proposals were requested by the Government from private investors to
provide additional power generation under an IPP arrangement as existing units are very old and most of
the possible rehabilitation has been carried out. These proposals were rejected, because the tariffs quoted
by the private investors were prohibitively expensive or the Government could not meet its contractual
obligations. A study has also been carried out to determine if electric power could be imported from
neighboring Cameroon to supply N'Djamena. The closest supply source would have been the Lagdo
hydroelectric plant in Cameroon, some 250 kms away. The study concluded that it would be
uneconomical to import electricity over such a long distance to supply NTDjamena. In addition it is likely
that reaching agreement would have been a long drawn-out process. Interconnection with Nigeria was
also considered but rejected because of the current power shortages in Nigeria and because this option
was not considered reliable for the supply to the capital city. The regional interconnection potential is
currently being looked in the context of the Communaute Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique Centrale
(CEMAC), particularly:for southern Chad.
Fuel Options for Thermal Plants. Different alternative fuels were considered with the
objectives of reducing significantly STEE's operating costs, particularly the kind of fuel that STEE would
use for power generation; fuel currently represents about 80% of STEE's operating costs. At present,
STEE uses expensive diesel oil imported over long distances mainly from Cameroon and at times from
Nigeria. The altematives considered to using imported diesel fuel were:
* use of cheaper heavy fuel oil imported from Cameroon or Nigeria. Heavy fuel would be about 20%
or more cheaper than diesel and could be imported fairly quickly. However, adequate arrangements
have to be made to transport and store heavy fuel oil in Chad and modifications need to be made to
the existing generators at STEE to use heavy fuel;
* use of heavy fuel from domestic sources (the Sedigi project). This would require the Sedigi
refinery to be built and operated by the private sector, the proposal currently under negotiation, with
possible commissioning in early 2004. This refinery could produce 550 bbd of heavy fuel oil, enough
for a 20 MW thermal power station. Since this heavy fuel oil is a necessary by-product of the refinery
operations and currently does not have a market in Chad, the Government plans to sell it to STEE for
FCFA 60/liter, compared to the present diesel oil cost to STEE of FCFA 350-400/liter. The project
will finance the commissioning of new themial units able to operate using heavy fuel or crude oil as
well as the conversion of about 9 MW of existing units for operation using heavy fuel or crude oil;
* use of crude oil. Since the construction of the Sedigi oil production and pipeline facilities has started
but the financing for the refinery has not been secured, or if the refinery could not be operated, a
third altemative considered was to use the Sedigi crude oil directly in STEE's thermal units. Sedigi
- 12-



crude oil is light and of very good quality and could be used to generate power in the new units and
in existing units, with only minor modifications. The Government has indicated that it would sell this
crude oil to STEE at FCFA 60/liter, as it could not be exported economically;
*   use of Sedigi gas. If the oil from Sedigi is produced and transported to N'Djamena for refining, there
would be relatively large amounts of gas flared at the well-head. Alternatively, this gas could be
transported to NDjamena via a separate gas pipeline or the planned oil pipeline and used for
producing electricity as well as for industrial and commercial purposes. This gas could be sold to
STEE at very competitive prices. The Government is currently assessing this option in detail, with
the assistance of the GEF, the World Bank Group, and other donors;
* a final alternative considered was the use of Doba crude oil. This crude oil, however, is very heavy;
ExxonMobil, the operator of the Doba project, is considering mixing this crude oil with lighter
imported fuels and using the mixture in their own power generating units in Doba. Again, this would
considerably reduce costs for STEE and increase the reliability of supplies. However, this option
would be economically more expensive than the Sedigi heavy fuel.
Privatization and Investment Financing. The Government and STEE have signed a 30-year
contract with the private consortium Vivendi/Dietsmann, which initially began with a management
contract and will end up as a concession, with the private sector partner taking on all the technical,
operational, managerial, and financial risks. In the short term, however, investment financing will have to
be secured and the related risks borne by the Republic of Chad.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision   1
Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings      l
._______________________________ .________________________  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Expensive supply costs of imported  Petroleum Engineering Project.  S         S
refined petroleum products.
Weak capacity in view of the prospects Petroleum Sector Management  S         S
for developing Chad's petroleum  Capacity-Building Project and
resources.                      Management of the Petroleum
Economy Project.
Initiation of the development of Chad's Chad/Cameroon Petroleum  S            S
petroleum potential.            Development and Pipeline
Project.
Unmanaged exploitation of Chad's  Household Energy Project.      S            S
quickly diminishing forestry resources.
Other development agencies
European Investment Bank.       Rehabilitation and Extension of
Water Supply Facilities.
Agence Francaise de Developpement  Technical Assistance to STEE.
(AFD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 13 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This is the first operation financed by IDA in the electricity and water supply sectors of Chad.
Nevertheless several lessons can be learned from the experience in Chad as well as in other countries.
*      The importance of fundamental sector reforms as a basis to ensure the financial sustainability of
the power and water supply sectors. The Government of Chad has recognized that private sector
participation is necessary to achieve sustainable efficiency improvements to meet Chad's growing
demands, increase service coverage and to reduce costs. It has contracted out a well-known operator
under a 30-year contract;
*      The importance of grounding investment decisions on their technical, financial, and economic
merits consistent with macroeconomic development and sector development objectives. This has been
taken into account in the Government's phasing of the investment program, starting first with
rehabilitation and improvements in the quality of the electricity and water supply services, to be followed
in a second phase with a program to increase access in a financially sustainable way;
*      The importance of the quality of services as sine qua non for reducing non-technical losses and
increasing revenue collection. The project focuses on the rehabilitation of the electricity and water
infrastructure and provides all the necessary tools to -improve the management of the utility and the
quality of services;
*      The importance of establishing an experienced team to manage project implementation. Under
the proposed project: (a) STEE/Vivendi will be responsible for 98% of the procurement and
implementation of activities fnanced by the project; and (b) a project monitoring unit has been set up in
which all interested parties are represented and will meet at periodically.scheduled meetings; and
*      The importance of streamlining the decision-making and approval processes, particularly with
respect to procurement. The Government has decided to reduce to two entities (MME and MEW), the
signatories required for issuing contracts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The political and economic irnplications of this operation are considerable, particularly since
Chad is on verge of exporting oil and must be seen to be taking action to solve its own domestic energy
crisis. Hence, the Government's commitment to and sense of ownership of the project and for the
technical, financial, and managerial rehabilitation of the electricity and water sectors are very high. Over
the last three years, the Govermnent has embarked on the road to privatization, adopted new legal
frameworks for the electricity and water supply sectors, and has bome substantial financial costs to
restructure STEE in an attempt to put it on a sound financial footing, including payment of arrears to
suppliers and clearance of short-term debts.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project has allowed the Bank to maintain an excellent dialogue with the
Government, started initially under the Doba Pipeline project. It should keep the Government away from
using the current crisis situation in the energy sector to look for ad hoc solutions that have not or will not
work. The value added of Bank assistance is substantial: (i) it will prevent the collapse of the supply of
electricity and water at a critical time, when the economy has again begun to expand because of the
investments in the oil sector and despite a decline in agricultural production, including cotton, its
- 14 -



principal export crop, and food crops; (ii) allow the gradual, but full privatization of STEE; (iii) result in
a substantial reduction in the costs of electricity and water supply; (iv) set the stage for technical,
reliable, and financially sustainable electricity and water supply sectors; (v) increase the reliability of
these services; (vi) set the foundation for expanding the access to these services, particularly for urban
poor and rural populations; (vii) catalyze future external private and public investment resources for the
infrastructure sectors; and (viii) continue dialogue with the Government that began with the preparation
and appraisal of the Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit     NPV=US$45.1 million; ERR = 29.1 % (see Annex 4)
U Cost effectiveness
Other (specify)
The economic analysis confirms that Chad will derive sustainable economic benefits from the
proposed project. This conclusion is very robust to changes in critical parameters over a 15-year period.
The main economic benefits consist of the continued delivery of electricity and water-supply services in
N'Djamena and in smaller urban centers, a decrease in the economic costs of providing these services,
and better quality of services. For the electricity sector, economic costs include investments in new
electricity generating plants and transmission lines, conversion of generating units to operate on less
expensive fuels (such as heavy fuel or crude oil), maintenance programs, rehabilitation, and as needed,
extension of the distribution system, and customer related investments. For the water supply sector, these
include investments in new wells, rehabilitation of existing wells and the distribution system, and
customer related investments. For the electricity and water supply sector as a whole, economic costs
include utility investments in a commercial management system required to reduce losses, rehabilitation
of the computerized management systems and the utility vehicle fleet, spare parts, personnel safety, small
tools, and the costs of the Environmental Management Plan and the of the private operator's team. The
investment also includes the costs related to the project monitoring and oversight committee (CTSPU).
For the base case scenario, the internal economic rate of return (ERR) for Chad is estimated at
29.1% and the Net Present Value (at a 10% discount rate) is estimated to be US$45.1 million. Under a
"worst case scenario" where expensive petroleum products continue to be imported, and where
conservative estimates of the unit benefits are assumed, the project economic attractiveness remains
robust. Under that scenario, the ERR for Chad is the estimated at 11.3%. This analysis shows that the
project economic attractiveness is very dependent on the economic costs of the fuels used in the power
plants.
These results provide only a very partial picture of the potential overall economic benefits of the
project, as they deals solely with easily quantified benefits and do not account for the economic benefits
of improved quality of services, reduced load shedding and use of small back-up generators, impacts on
the equipment, social benefits of street lighting, and the reduced negative environmental impacts.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
STEE's Past Financial Performance. The Balance Sheets and the Income and Cash-flow
statements for STEE for the past five years are presented in Annex 5. Information for the period 1997 to
2001 shows that the financial performance of STEE has been extremely poor despite very high
- 15-



electricity tariffs, on average US$0.25/kWh. (Electricity revenues represent 87% of the utility's revenues
and water tariffs, however, are relatively low, FCFA 182/m3 on average.) During this period, STEE
generated only operating losses and the utility's equity was entirely wiped out by the accumulated losses.
STEE, for all purposes, is financially bankrupt and is in a no-payment situation with its banks and
suppliers. The utility has been kept afloat by relatively large amounts of direct and indirect subsidies
(debts written off or transferred to the Treasury, exemption from petroleum fuel taxes, and taxes and
payroll deductions not paid to State).
STEE's technical and financial performance has been below par in all categories; all of STEE's
financial ratios are below the normal targets and its cash-flow problems are extremely serious. Revenues
from electricity sales decreased steadily from 1996 to 1999 and in 1998 decreased by more than 1 billion
FCFA compared to 1997. Revenues, however, increased from 1999 to 2001 to reach the 1997 levels. The
technical and commercial losses for electricity operations rose from 27% in 1994 to about 30% in 1998
and for water supply, over the same period, the losses increased from 11% to about 35%. Collection
performance is however relatively better, 84% for electricity operations and 89% for water operations,
respectively.
The main reasons behind STEE very high tariffs (US$0.25/kWh, compared with about
US$0.9/kWh in the Ivory Coast and US$0.11/kWh in Senegal), but poor financial performance are: (a)
high production costs of electricity and water, in large part because of the costs of transporting imported
diesel oil over long distances and the supply costs in Cameroon; (b) large technical and non-technical
losses; (c) inefficiency of the thermal generating units due to their age and poor maintenance related to
cash-flow problems and lack of spare parts; and (d) overall poor management, until September 2000
when the management of the utility was contracted to Vivendi-Dietsmann.
STEE's Future Financial Performance. The pro forma Balance Sheets and Income and
Cash-flow statements of STEE for the next ten years (2002-2011) are presented in Annex 5. With the
implementation of the proposed Critical Electricity and Water Services Rehabilitation project (over the
2002-2004 period), the second phase of the investment program (over the 2004-2006 period), and the
Sedigi oil and gas project, STEEs technical and financial performance should improve dramatically. This
can be expected because of the (i) substantial reduction in the cost of fuel used by STEE, as cheaper
domestic fuel oil or crude oil from the Sedigi project become available; (ii) better technical performance
of the new thermal units, as well as of the existing units benefiting from adequate and timely
maintenance; (iii) significant reduction in technical and non-technical losses; (iv) increase in demand for
both electricity and water supply services and connection of relatively large self-producers in the Doba
petroleum region; and (v) overall improvement in the technical and financial management of the utility.
During the 2002-2004 period, when the project is being implemented, STEE would still incur
financial operating losses which are expected to be covered by the general Budget and AFD. However
starting in 2004, when cheaper petroleum products become available, efficient generating units are
operational and conversion of older generating units to operate on heavy fuel oil or crude oil is carried
out, STEE's technical and financial performance should improve significantly, and in 2004, STEE's is
expected to show a net positive income, with no direct subsidies. From then on, the utility is expected to
remain financially sound, allowing the private operator to take increasing operational risks and increase
its financial exposure.
During the 2002-2006 period, the rate of return on the rate base (average net fixed assets in
operations) remains below the criteria of a 8% return. It would however rise to above 10% after 2007.
Because of the on-lending conditions granted to STEE, the debt service coverage ratio will be
- 16-



satisfactory (higher than 1.5) starting in 2002. It will fall in 2008 when STEE starts to repay the principal
on its debt and faces higher interest rate. The self-financing ratio and the current ratio are satisfactory
after 2007. The liquidity position would also be satisfactory after 2004 and accounts receivables would
represent less than 70 days of billing.
STEE's Tariffs. STEE's very high electricity tariffs will not, in the long run, allow the
development of the customer base. Several consequences flow from not being able to reduce tariffs: (i)
non-technical losses (fraud) will not be brought under control; (ii) once pent-up demand is met, growth in
demand will slow down significantly with an impact on the utility's ability to participate in the financing
of extensions, denying essential services to a large proportion of the population; (iii) deepening the
privatization of the utility (STEE) will be delayed; and (iv) the Government may have to provide direct
and indirect subsidies to STEE. The Government has repeatedly indicated that, in order to make the
country more economically competitive and to provide the population with basic energy and water supply
services, it wishes to reduce electricity tariffs from the current US$0.25/kWh (FCFA 185/kWh) to
US$0.13/kWh (FCFA 100/kWh) as the Sedigi project is commissioned. As shown in Annex 5, reducing
electricity tariffs is feasible; the size of the adjustment will however depend on STEE's financial costs,
particularly the interest rate on its long term debt.
Fiscal Impact:
In 2001, STEE received a subsidy from the Government of about US$5.6 million (FCFA 4
billion) to cover its operational deficit. In 2002, STEE will need another subsidy of about US$4.7 million
(FCFA 3.5 billion) to cover the forecast operational deficit and for 2003, the subsidy required is
estimated to be about US$6.4 million (FCFA 4.7 billion). These subsidies from the Treasury and the
Donors are however not expected to be necessary after 2004, once the proposed project is implemented
and cheaper petroleum products or crude oil from the Sedigi oil field become available. Notwithstanding
its financial performance, STEE continues to pay turnover taxes and other duties to the State Treasury; in
2001 these taxes and duties amounted to about US$2.35 million (FCFA 1.763 billion).
3. Technical:
The project activities have been designed and costed and will be implemented by STEE with the
assistance of the private Management Contractor contracted by the Government. It will meet the
internationally accepted technical standards. The technical parameters and estirated costs for the project
were established on the basis of studies done by internationally recognized consultants, reviewed by an
experienced private operator, and checked against unit costs for similar work in Chad and in the region.
They were reviewed during the Bank's pre-appraisal mission and found to be technically sound and
appropriate to the country's needs. Most of the procurement of goods and equipment will be done on the
basis of international competitive bidding consistent with IDA procurement procedures.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
STEE and CTSPU. STEE, with the assistance of the private Management Contractor selected
by the Government to manage the electricity and water supply sectors, will be the executing agency for
the project, except for the: (a) project monitoring and oversight activities; (b) regulatory and financial
restructuring activities; and (c) some activities related to preparation of the second phase, that will be
implemented by the CTSPU chaired by the Director of Energy, within the MME. The activities
implemented directly by STEE represent 96% of the project costs. Vivendi-Dietsmann has worldwide
experience and is fully qualified to assist STEE with the implementation of such a project. The
- 17-



contractual arrangements between the Republic of Chad, STEE, and Vivendi-Dietsmann as well as the
project-specific implementation arrangements are provided in Annex 13.
The CTSPU. The CTSPU (Cellule Technique de Suivi du Programme d'Urgence de la STEE)
has been set up by the Government to prepare and monitor project implementation. It will be responsible
for project oversight, for completing the regulatory and financial restructuring work, and for some of the
second phase project preparatory activities . These activities account for 4% of project costs. The CTSPU
will benefit from the expertise of an engineering firm and of a procurement expert (see Annexl3).
4.2 Project management:
Under an Arrete signed on March 25, 2002, an inter-ministerial committee (Cellule Technique de
Suivi du Programme d"Urgence de la STEE) has been set up to be responsible for project oversight. The
Committee includes all the parties interested in project implementation, in particular the private operator;
and it will also include the subcommittee on the Environmental Management Plan (see section 5 below).
The Committee's Chairman is the Director of Energy of the MME. The Committee will be assisted by
two experts: a procurement specialist, who will review and approve all of procurement carried out under
the project, and an engineering consultant, who will review all the activities proposed prior to contracting
and will certify that the implemented activities are carried out according to internationally accepted
standards. The terms of reference for these two experts are in the Project File. Project financial
management will be carried out by STEE (see section 4.4 below).
4.3 Procurement issues:
A formal procurement assessment of the capacity of STEE was carried out in April 2002, in
accordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines dated August 11, 1998. The
following action plan was agreed upon by the Bank with the Government, STEE, and Vivendi: (i)
preparing an acceptable procurement plan and regular updates of the plan to reduce risks of extension of
project duration; (ii) developing a Bank-Government dialogue to adapt institutional rules and practices as
necessary to reduce risks of lack of transparency; (iii) setting up a procurement monitoring system, with
adequate material resources and staffed with qualified and motivated professionals to reduce risks of
low-quality, bid documents requiring iterative revisions; (iv) providing external technical assistance as
necessary; and (v) ensuring proper technical and financial audits of the procurement procedures and
contract management.
Risk Rating. Considering the immediate action plan to upgrade its capacity to the level required
by program, STEE falls in the average-risk zone.
Advance Contracting. The new 20 MW thermal units for N'Djamena are urgently needed and
should
ideally be operational before the 2003 hot season (May-July), when temperatures in Chad rise above 100
degrees Fahrenheit. Given this fact, the Borrower, is proceeding with the initial steps of procurement of
these units, the related transmission line, as well as the procurement of smaller units for the secondary
urban centers. The procurement procedures, including advertising, are in accordance with the Guidelines
and will follow the normal review process by the Bank.
Retroactive Financing. An amount of about SDR 400,000 has been spent with funds advanced
by STEE on project preparation and start activities, such as the preparation of bid documents and a
Resettlement Plan, which will speed up project implementation. It is recommended that this sum be
eligible for retroactive financing.
- 18-



4.4 Financial management issues:
Assessment of Project Financial Management. A formal financial assessment of STEE was
carried out in June, 2002. STEE has an established finance and accounting department that is capable of
producing accounts and financial information in a timely fashion. However, there are some deficiencies
that can be quickly addressed. Given the "emergency" nature of this operation, the following action plan
was agreed to by the Bank with the Government, STEE and the private Management (Vivendi): (i) a
Director of Finance would be recruited by STEE in August, 2002; (ii) a full-time expatriate would be
hired to oversee the accounting and finance function for at least the first year of the project operation;
(iii) the accounting staff of STEE will be provided with training under the project to improve their skills;
(iv) monthly financial reports will be produced regularly and submitted to Vivendi France, and
adaptations will be made to produce the FMR quarterly for Bank purposes; (v) the financial accounts of
STEE and the project will be audited annually by an external auditor acceptable to the Bank, and (vi)
internal financial auditors from Vivendi France will perform regular reviews of Vivendi Chad's
operations and their reports will be available to the Bank. Improvements in the project accounting
system will include the following: (a) submission of a project's accounting procedures manual acceptable
to IDA; (b) upgrading of current accounting software and integration of the accounts receivable with the
general accounts.The following was agreed as conditions of effectiveness (a) finalization of a project
accounting system acceptable to the Bank; (b) submission of a satisfactory audit report of STEE for year
ended December 31, 2001; (c) appointment of a project external auditor acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The electricity and water supply investment program in Chad has two phases: (a) the first
consists of short-term investments in critical rehabilitation required to maintain the provision of
electricity and water services at current levels; and (b) the second will comprise an extension of the
generating and distribution infrastructure for electricity and water supply services in the main urban
centers, the construction of a gas pipeline, and rural electrification.
Under the proposed project, an environmental audit of the electricity and water supply systems in
the country will be carried out to identify historic pollution levels, clean-up actions needed, as well as the
environmental liabilities, responsibilities, and solutions. This audit will be available prior to the appraisal
of the second phase program. In addition, a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) and a Social
Assessment (SSA) of the electricity and water power sectors will be carried out to explore the impacts of
alternatives and development scenarios. The results of these SEA and SSA will be integrated into the
design of the second phase program that will be in compliance with World Bank Safeguards Policies and
Guidelines.
Project Environmental Assessment (EA). During project preparation, an environmental
assessment of the impacts of the proposed investments and consultations with the stakeholders were
carried out. Two safeguards policies are triggered by the proposed project: Safeguard Policy 4.01 -
Environmental Assessment and Safeguard Policy 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement. The proposed
short-term investments carry only minor negative environmental impacts, while most environmental
impacts are positive. The rehabilitation of existing water boreholes has no environmental impacts. The
significant issues that were assessed during the EA are the following: (i) present environmental and
safety management is not optimal and needs to be improved; (ii) hydrocarbon transport, handling, and
storage need to be improved; (iii) safety measures need to be developed and implemented and
occupational health for STEE workers needs to improve; (iv) air emissions at the existing power plant in
19-



N'Djamena need to be reduced to be in compliance with the World Bank Safeguard Policies and the
Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook; (v) the technical specifications for the new 20 MW
power plant in NDjamena need to be in compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies; (vi) a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) would need to be prepared for the 20 families that have illegally settled
at the new power plant site (see para below); and (vii) the commissioning of the 25-km transmission line
linking the new power plant to STEE's distribution system and rehabilitation of the distribution lines will
strictly follow the existing right-of-way.
The new 20 MW power generating units to be financed under the project will be located in an
industrial zone (Farcha) on the outskirts of N'Djamena. Although the site was provided to STEE several
years ago by the Municipality, 20 families have settled there illegally and built homes. The new facilities
to be commissioned for the project will be located away from these homes. The Government has,
nevertheless, carried out various studies and prepared a Resettlement Action Plan for these 20 families to
be implemented over the next two years. The Plan has socioeconomic data on each of the families,
information on the new site where the families will be resettled, identified the agency responsible for the
resettlement, and prepared a detailed budget. Satisfactory implementation of the Resettlement Plan will
be a condition for proceeding with the second phase of the investment program. The rehabilitation of the
existing power plant in N'Djamena will be carried out on the existing premises and no people are
affected.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The short-term investment program will implement sound environmental management practices
for STEE's existing power plant in N'Djamena in compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies and
Guidelines. These will include the following actions: (a) training of the power plant personnel
particularly regarding fire risks and security; (b) updating the evacuation plan; (c) preparing a
coordinated plan with other resources available in N'Djamena (such as in the Municipality and the army);
(d) measuring the quality of processed water released to the Chari river; (e) measuring the air emissions
and level of particulate matters around the power plant; and (f) improving "retention" for the storage of
diesel oil and for other hydrocarbon products and residues.
The new power.plant in Farcha, the design and the bid technical specifications for the new power
plant for air, liquid, and solid emissions, noise levels, and the type of material used, will meet World
Bank environmental guidelines.
Twenty families have illegally settled on the site assigned to STEE for the construction and
operation of new N'Djamena power generating facilities. The Government has prepared a Resettlement
Action Plan which is adequate and which will be implemented by April 1, 2003.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 26, 2002
The EA, including the preparation of the RAP and the consultations, was carried out during the
December 2001-June 2002 period. The Government of Chad transmitted the EA and the RAP on June 26
2002; these documents were received by the Bank on June 28, 2002.
On June 28, 2002, the EA and the RAP where made available to the public in the STEE and
MMEP offices of N'Djamena. These documents were placed in the Bank InfoShops in N'Djamena and
Washington on June 28, 2002.
-20 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted particularly during the March 11-21, 2002 period. Nine meetings
were held with representatives of the population living around the power plants, with Non-governmental
Organizations (NGOs), and the news media. In particular, two public consultation meetings were held in
N'Djamena attended by over 300 persons focusing on the new power plant in Farcha (NDjamena). These
consultations included a presentation of the siting and the key features of the new power plant together
with questions and answers.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The proposed short-term investment carries only minor negative environmental impacts with
most environmental impacts being positive. Two mechanisms have been put in place to monitor and
evaluate the environmental impacts of the project. Regarding the existing power plant in N'Djamena, an
emission monitoring system will be put in place to measure air emissions, air quality around the power
plant, and the quality of water released to the Chari river (see para. 5.2). With respect to the new power
plant in Farcha (NDjamena), (a) STEE will maintain files and reports documenting the results of the
periodic monitoring activities, problems, and actions implemented, the relevant personnel and their
qualifications, and the analyses of the emissions and discharges. These documents will be accessible to
the Authorities; and (b) STEE will set up a Consultation Liaison Group with the population living in the
vicinity of the power plant to report on the work plan and progress during the construction period, and
inform them of issues that may arise and consult them on the appropriate mitigation actions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Some 131 persons (20 families) have settled illegally on the site assigned for the new STEE
power plant. As these persons are located in an area not needed for the first phase of the investment
program, resettlement needs to be carried out only when the second phase construction activities begin.
In order to proceed expeditiously with the Second Phase Investment Program, the resettlement will be
carried out before the completion of the project, i.e., before April 1, 2003.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Meetings were held during March 11-21, 2002 with participants affected by the project,
including people living around the project facilities. The consultation process and outcomes are
described in the EA (see para. 5.4).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations have been carried out with the local population and relevant and interested NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 21 -



A Consultation Liaison Group will be set up to liaise with the population living in the vicinity of
the power plant to discuss issues that may arise during the construction period and consult on the
appropriate mitigation actions.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See section 6.4 above.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes () No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                    (9Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes S No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9) Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        W Yes () No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (_Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Two safeguard policies apply to the project, namely OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and
OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The EA and the RAP have been submitted by the Government and
accepted by the Bank. Resources for the EMP will be provided by the project and its implementation will
be the responsibility of STEE/Vivendi. The quarterly project reports submitted to IDA by the CTSPU
will report on the implementation of the EMP (see section C: Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainablity:
Project sustainability is underpinned through a combination of the following features:
*   The concession contract and the regulatory arrangements, put in place in 2000, redefine the
respective roles of the Government and of the private sector. Increased financial commitments by the
private operator are contractually planned as soon as the utility improves its technical and financial
performance;
*   Strong commitment from the Government to the investment program, particularly for securing the
production of electricity and water in N'Djamena and in the main urban centers;
*   Both the short-term and long-term investment programs are economically justified and the prospects
of financial sustainability are increased by private sector participation, the development of the Sedigi
oil and gas project, and the existence of appropriate cost-recovery policies;
*   Full participation of the private operator in the selection and design of the activities to be
implemented by the project and in the selection of contractors;
*   Full transparency in procurement of goods and services; and
* Project implementation will be mostly the responsibility of the private operator.
- 22 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Power and water supply sector reforms     S        Government has already passed the necessary
continue to be supported by the                    reform legislation, and implemented critical
Government.                                        steps, including clearing most of STEE's
financial liabilities and signing a contract with
the private sector operator.
Payment of Government bills for           S        STEE's 2002 and 2003 deficits will be financed
electricity and water supply services.             by the Government. Government confirmed
that public sector bills for electricity and water
supply will be paid.
Timely installation of power generators   M        "Advance Procurement" is being used to
and water supply production facilities.            procure the thermal generators, which are
expected to be delivered in May 2003.
Completion of STEE financial              M        Most of the required actions have been
restructuring.                                     implemented.
Timely implementation of other project    N        Implementation of most components will be the
components.                                        responsibility of the private sector operator,
who has sufficient experience and capacity.
STEE is able to purchase heavy fuel oil   M        Negotiations are well advanced with the private
from the Sedigi refinery or crude oil at           sector to build the refinery and to sell the heavy
FCFA 60/liter.                                     fuel oil to STEE at FCFA 60-80/liter.
Agreement has been reached with the
Government that if the refinery is not built or
delayed, STEE would have access to Sedigi
crude oil at FCFA 60-80/liter.
From Components to Outputs
Power generators ordered, manufactured,   M        Advance procurement being used.
and delivered on schedule.
Private operator continues to manage the  M        Long-term concession contract has been
local utility.                                     signed; Government is conmnitted.
Successful conversion of some existing    N        Manufacturer is willing to carry out the
power units to run on heavy fuel oil or            conversion.
crude oil.
Availability of sufficient ground water   N        Assessment confirns sufficient availability of
resources.                                         water in and around N'Djamena.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None foreseen at this time. As described in the Resettlement Plan submitted by the Government
to the Bank, the resettlement of the 20 families who had settled illegally on the new N'Djarnena plant site
- 23 -



(at Farcha) will take place by April 1,2003.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and STEE;
(b)    The Borrower has submitted a PIP in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
and
(c)    STEE has:
(i)    strengthened its financial management system in accordance with an action plan
agreed upon with the Association, such plan including: (A) the establishment of
a Project accounting system satisfactory to the Association; and (B)
appointment, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, of the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of the Project
Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)  submitted to the Association its audited financial statements for its Fiscal Year
2001.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursement
Disbursement of the public street lighting component will be conditioned on the signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding among the Government, STEE and the Municipality of N'Djamena for
the financing, rehabilitation, and maintenance of the public street lighting system, satisfactory to IDA.
Other Covenants
(a) Appoint to the CTSPU a procurement expert and an engineering consultant by October 31, 2002
under terms of reference and qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(b) Modify STEE's by-laws to clarify the roles of the STEE and of the Management Contractor by
October 31, 2002;
(c) Implement the Resettlement Action Plan by April 1, 2003, including providing the necessary land
required and following compensation standards set forth in the Resettlement Plan;
(d) Will not take any action or sign any contract that would have an adverse impact on the financial
viability of the electricity and water supply sectors and require subsidies from the State budget;
(e) Will submit to IDA for its approval the draft agreements related to the construction, financing,
management, and operation of the refinery and of the Sedigi oil field and pipeline facilities and the
related environmental management plans;
(f) Set the price of heavy fuel oil from the NDjamena oil refinery and the price of crude oil and the
associated gas from the Sedigi oil field in accordance with the Pricing Guidelines, so as to enable
STEE to reduce its electricity production costs by at least sixty percent (60%) by the end of Project
implementation;
-24 -



(g) Will cause STEE to appoint a Committee on Environment and Resettlement by December 31, 2002
that will monitor the environmental and social aspects of the project under terms of reference
acceptable to the Asssociation;
(h) Will cause STEE to appoint a Consultation Liaison Group, acceptable to the Association, by
December 31, 2002 to consult with the public on matters relating to the environmental and social
aspects of the project;
(i) Will cause STEE to carry out by December 31, 2003 an Environmental Audit of the electricity and
water supply sectors to identify inter alia existing pollution levels, environmental liabilities and
clean-up measures under terms-of-reference acceptable to the Association;
(j) Will cause STEE to carry out by December 31, 2003 a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA)
and a Strategic Social Assessment (SSA) of the electricity and water sectors under terms-of-reference
acceptable to the Association;
(k) Will provide training on environmental management to staff from MME, MEW, and MOP,
and cause STEE to carry out the following actions: (i) improvements in the conditions of
transport, storage and handling of hydrocarbons; (ii) development of environmental safety
measures for electricity generators and for the protection of staff; (iii) specification of
environmental standards to be complied with in the bidding documents for the procurement
of electricity generators; and (iv) training of its staff on environmental management;
(1) The Government will do its best to maximize the use of the associated gas from the Sedigi oil field
and avoid gas flaring;
(m) Will cause the CTSPU to submit quarterly progress reports, in a format satisfactory to IDA within a
month after the end of each quarter covering, inter alia, the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan, the work of the Environmental Sub-Commnittee and of the Consultation Liaison
Group, the status of Public Sector Electricity and Water bills, and will hold a joint mid-term review
with IDA no later than the end of September 2003;
(o) Will cause STEE to employ qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA and to furnish to the
Association certified copies of the STEE audit reports no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year;
(p) Will pay its electricity and water-supply bills regularly as foreseen in the Memorandum of
Understanding signed between the Government and STEE dated March 16, 2001 and inform IDA in
the context of the project's Quarterly Reports;
(q) Ensure that a Management Contractor, acceptable to the Association, is maintained throughout the
Project implementation period; and
(r) Ensure that the Management Contractor and/or its affiliates do not bid for the provision of goods or
works, or provide consultancy services under the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
i 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
- 25 -



3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
13 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
i c             -Ih-A nand  Covindassamy             Ali Khadr
Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators    -                                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Remove constraints to  Implementation of validated  Government, Bank, and IMF  Macroeconomic performance
economic and social growth.  sector strategies for   economic reports and sector  sustained; continued
infrastructure services,  statistics.                liberalization of the economy.
including water supply and
energy.                                              Increased resources directed
to activities benefiting the
poor.
2. Establish foundations for  Increased private and public
improved delivery of basic  sector investments in the
social services.           electricity and water supply
sectors.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Secure the delivery of basic  Power generation and   Govermment and Bank       Power and water supply sector
electricity and water supply  distribution, production, and  economic reports and power  reforms and increased private
services to the economy and to distribution of water supply  and water supply sector  sector participation continues
the population, particularly to  services function smoothly; no statistics.     to be supported by the
the urban poor.            blackouts of long duration;                          Government.
decrease in water-borne
diseases.
Reduce the costs of electricity  Costs of delivered electricity  Project Monitoring and  Sedigi Pipelines and Refinery
and water services.        and of water services decrease Oversight Committee   projects implemented
from 2001 levels.         (CTSPU) and STEE quarterly correctly and in parallel.
progress reports and Bank's
supervision reports.
Promote private sector    Increased private sector   Government, IMF, and Bank  Transparency in contract
participation in the sectors.  interest in the energy sector  economic reports.  awards.
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Electricity production and  Availability of electricity  CTSPU quarterly reports;  Timely installation of new
distribution secured in    generating units increased  STEE's annual reports; Bank  power generators and timely
N'Djamena and six smaller  from 12.8 MW in 2002 to 22.5 supervision reports; and  maintenance of existing
urban centers.             MW in 2004; number of days  Mid-Term review.         generating units.
of interruption in the
distribution of electricity
services decreased from 250
days in 2002 to 50 days in
2004 and in water-supply from
180 to 60 days.Average time
to correct problems reduced
from 10 days to 2 days in
2004.
- 27 -



Generating costs reduced from
US$ 0.16/ kWh in 2001 to
US$0.6.5/kWh in 2004.
Water supply production   Number of connections     CTSPU quarterly reports;
secured in N'Djamena and  without meters or with    STEE's annual reports; Bank
eight smaller urban centers.  damaged meters reduced from  supervision reports;and
2,300 (electricity) and 3,000  Mid-Term review.
(water) in 2002 to 1,300
(electricity) and 1,500 (water)
in 2004.
STEE is technically,      Non-Technical and technical  CTSPU quarterly reports;
commercially, and financially losses reduced from 29% in  STEE's annual reports; Bank
strengthened.             2002 to 24% in 2004 in the  supervision reports; Mid-Term
electricity sector and from  review; and STEE annual
30% to 20% in water-supply;  financial audits.
Number of connections
increased from 16, 224 to
17,324 in electricity and from
20,503 to 21,200 in water in.
2004.
Number of boreholes
operating increased from 19 in
2001 to 26 in 2004.
Project implemented       Activities implemented as per CTSPU quarterly reports;
adequately; preparation of the the planned schedule.  STEE's annual reports; Bank
second phase of the       Financing plan for the second  supervision reports; Mid-Term
investment program on track.  phase of the investment  review; and Credit financial
program completed by      audits.
mid-2003.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
A. Rehabilitation and     US$29.7 million.           CTSPU and STEE quarterly  Power generators
Expansion of Electricity                            reports; STEE's annual     manufactured and delivered on
Production, Transmissions                            reports; Bank supervision  schedule.
and Distribution Systems                            reports; Mid-Term review; and Efficiency in procurement
urban centers                                        STEE annual financial audits. processes.
A. l .a.New Generation and  US$21.03 million.                                  Management contractor
rehabilitation of existing                                                     continues to be fully
generating units in N'Djamena.                                                 autonomous to manage the
A.l.b New generation and  US$2.06 million.                                     power and water supply utility
rehabilitation of existing                                                     (STEE).
generating units in six smaller                                                Successful conversion of
centers.                                                                       power units to run on heavy
A.2. Rehabilitation and   US$3.22 million.                                     fuel oil.
extension of electricity                                                       Maintenance programs on
distribution Networks systems.                                                 existing units is carried out on
A.3 Rehabilitation of selected                                                 schedule.
street lighting facilities in  US$1.65 million.
N'Djamena.
A.4 Acquisition of Spare
-28 -



Parts, Equipments and tools.  US$1.47 million.
A.5 Implementation and
Technical Assistance.     US$. 24 million.
B. Rehabilitation and     US$7.44 milllon.          CTSPU and STEE quarterly   Efficiency in procurement
Expansion of Water Supply                           reports; STEE's annual     processes.
Systems.                                            reports; Bank supervision  Management contractor
B.l.a Rehabilitation and  US$3.46 million.          reports; Mid-Term review; and continues be fully
extension of the supply                              STEE annual financial audits. autonomous to manage the
facilities and distribution                                                    power and water supply utility
systems in N'Djamena.                                                         (STEE).
B.l.b Rehabilitation and  US$3.35 million.
extension of the supply water
facilities and distribution in
eight smaller urban centers.
B.2 Rehabilitation of Water  US$.25 million
Connection and Meters,
Acquisition of Spare Parts,
Equipments and Tools
B.3 Implementation Studies  US$ .38 million.
and Technical Assistance.
C. Improvement in the     US8.94 million.            CTSPU and STEE quarterly  Efficiency in procurement
Technical, Financial, and                            reports including         processes.
Environmental Performance                            Environmental Sub-committee Management contractor
of STEE and Personnel                                report; STEE's annual reports; continues be fully
Safety Measures.                                     Bank supervision reports;  autonomous to manage the
C. I Improvement in the   US$1.88 million.           Mid-Term review; and STEE  power and water supply utility
technical and financial                              annual financial audits.  (STEE).
performance of STEE.                                                           Government pays its bills on
C.2 Payment of the fees and  US$1.60 million.                                  time.
expenses of the Management                                                     Petroleum prices do not
Contractor.                                                                    increase above 2001 levels.
C.3 Purchase of petroleum and US$4.46 million.
chemical products for
treatment of drinking water.
C.4 Implementation of     US$0.99 million.
environmental and personnel
safety measures.
D. Preparatory Activities for US$ 2.81 million.      CTSPU and STEE quarterly  CTSPU completes
the Second Phase of the                              reports; STEE's annual    implementation of the new
Investment Program and                              reports; Bank supervision  regulatory environments.
Project Oversight.                                  reports; Mid-Term review; and CTSPU completes the
D.l Preparatory activities  US$.688 million.         STEE annual financial audits. financial restructuring of
required to prepare the second                                                 STEE.
phase of the investment
program and implemented by
STEE.                     US$.824 million
D.2.a Strengthening the
Operational Capacities of the
CTSPU
D.2.b Preparatory activities  US$1.295 million
-29 -



required to prepare the Second
Phase of the investment
program and implemented by
the CTSPU.
Physical and Price        US$ 4.89 million.
Contingencies.
Refinancing of PPF advance. US$ 2.0 million.
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Introduction
1.    Chad faces a variety of issues in the energy sector relating to the use of forest resources,
management of the power sector, and development of the petroleum sector. These problems in the energy
sector are attributable partly to the long series of political crises and armed conflicts and partly to the
lack of investment, lax management, the land-locked nature of the country, the shortage of alternative
energy sources, and a dearth of trained and qualified staff. The central administration ceased to finction
during the civil war and a large number of the most skilled professionals left the country.
2.     Electricity and water services in Chad are provided by Soci&e Tchadienne d'Electricite et d'Eau
(STEE), a government-owned utility. STEE depends entirely on thermal generation for the production of
electricity (hydro-resources are practically nonexistent), with petroleum products imported over long
distances from Nigeria and Cameroon. Because Chad is landlocked, the cost of a barrel of oil in the
capital city of N'Djamena is US$65 today compared to the international price of oil of US$25/barrel.
3.     Over the past 20 years very low levels of investment and maintenance have been carried out in
the electricity and water supply sectors of Chad  (Annex 11 provides key information on Chad's
electricity and water sectors). This has been due mainly to: (a) the high cost of generating electricity and
poor management that produced nothing but large losses in the last 10 years The current costs of
delivering electricity in Chad is over US$0.30/kWh, about three times higher than in the sub-region. The
very high electricity tariffs (over US$0.25/kWh) cannot cover costs. Management has improved since a
private sector consortium (Vivendi-Dietsmann), after a transparent bidding process with World Bank
support, took over as private operator of Chad's electricity and water sectors on September 15, 2000; and
(b) the difficulties and delays in reaching agreements with potential private sector investors Over the last
four years, the Govermment entered into discussions with Hyundai, SOPAM, and IECI for the financing
and installation of a new power plant in N'Djamena. These discussions did not succeed. This has led to a
situation where the supply of electricity and water services in N'Djamena has been greatly degraded.
Thermal units have burned down, service interruptions are constant, blackouts are the rule rather than the
exception, and water-borne diseases have spread, because the water supply system depends on electricity
to produce and distribute water. These factors have contributed to a critical situation and failure to
provide quick support to reverse it could lead to a collapse of the electricity and water-supply services in
N'Djamena and in the main urban centers. The Government has decided to take measures both in the
short term to ward off the financial and technical collapse of the sectors, as well in the long term, to
lower costs and increase access to electricity and safe drinking water for the local population and lessen
the sectors' ruinous burden on the budget and the economy.
4.     For the longer term, the Government has prepared a detailed five-year investment program
consisting of: (i) the expansion of the electricity and water supply production facilities of N'Djamena and
of several secondary towns, including expansion of the thernal power station at Farcha, on the outskirts
of N'Djamena; (ii) the expansion of the electricity and water supply distribution systems in N'Djamena
and the secondary towns; (iii) the completion of construction of the oil pipeline from the Sedigi oil field
(near Lake Chad) to N'Djamena; (iv) the construction of a gas pipeline from Sedigi to N'Djamena and of
gas line extensions to users; (v) the selection of a private investor to finance and operate the
mini-refinery; (vi) rural electrification; (vii) procurement of equipment and spare parts; and (viii)
technical assistance and capacity building. This program is expected to be initiated early in 2004 and
completed by the end of 2006.
- 31 -



5.     However, urgent investments are needed in the short run. This "emergency" assistance entails
the: (i) repair and maintenance of several existing and very old thermal units (varying in age from 15 to
35 years) and water production facilities and the replacement of some existing facilities with new power
generating units (about 20 MW) and water pumps; (ii) repair and maintenance of electricity and water
supply distribution networks; (iii) purchase of spare parts; (iv) purchase of water-purifying chemicals; (v)
implementation of measures to reduce electricity and water losses,' both technical and non-technical; (vi)
rehabilitation of the public street lighting in Nljamena; (vii) temporary purchase of fuel for STEE; (viii)
retention of the current private sector operator; (ix) initiation of training; and (x) completion of various
studies, including a tariff study, a waste water and drainage study for N'Djamena, and a water supply
Master Plan. This program will be implemented immediately and for the most part completed before the
end of the first quarter of 2004 (Peak electricity demand occurs in April-June, the hot season in Chad).
Project Objectives
6.     The main development objectives of the project are to:
*      Secure the delivery of basic electricity and water supply services and prevent the collapse of the
system particularly in N1Djamena;
*     Reduce the costs of electricity and water supply services; and
*     Support increased private sector participation in the sectors.
Project Main Components
7.     The proposed project comprises four main components and is estimated to cost about US$55.7
million (including PPF refinancing, a 10% physical and price contingency, but excluding Chad's duties
and taxes). The proposed project is expected to be implemented over a 24-month period (September
2002- August 2004), by STEE, assisted by the Management Contractor, following World Bank
procurement guidelines. Project implementation will be monitored by the Project Monitoring and
Oversight Committee ("Cellule Technique de Suivi du Programme d'Urgence de la STEE ") created by
the Government for the purpose of preparing and implementing the project, in which all the interested
parties are represented and which will be strengthened with outside expertise.
8.     A project cost breakdown by main components is provided in the following table with further
details on the activities and costs for each sub-component in the subsequent sections. Annex 3 provides a
detailed estimate of the costs.
- 32 -



Main Components
Component                          Project Costs  Project Costs (in
(in Millions  US$ '000)
___                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FCFA)__ _ _ _  _
A   Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity Production,  21,955      29,669
Transmission and Distribution Systems.     -
B  Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Water Supply Systems.   5,505          7,439
C  lmprovement in the Technical, Financial, and Environmental    6,614          8,938
Performance of STEE and Personnel Safety Standards.
D  Preparatory Activities for the Second Phase of the Investment.  2,078        2,808
rogram and Project Oversight.
-Contingencies (10%)                                              3,615    .     4,885
Refunding of Project Preparation Facility (PPF)              1,480           2,000
TOTAL                                                        41,247         55,739
All costs exclude Chad's taxes and duties; US$ 1 =740 FCFA.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - USS million
Component A: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity Production, Transmission and
Distribution Systems (US$29.7 million)
9.     This component will provide resources to maintain and in some cases increase the delivery of
electricity services in N'Djamena and in six of the smaller urban centers of Moundou, Sarh, Abeche,
Doba, Faya-Largeau, and Bongor. The critical activities to be implemented under this component and to
be financed by the Credit are described below.
Sub-Component A.J: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity Production Facilities and
Transmission Systems in N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and Faya-Largeau
(US$23,091,000)
Sub-Component A.l.a: New Generation and Rehabilitation of N'Djamena's Generating Units
(US$21,028,000)
10.    Over the last years, load shedding in N'Djamena and in the smaller centers has been increasing
and quality of service has deteriorated. The available generating capacity is inadequate to cover the
demand (see Annex 1 1). In 2000 and 2001, it is estimated that about 20% of the electricity demand of the
connected customers of N'Djamena was not being served by STEE. This has led customers to install
their own costly private generators and has entailed large economic and social costs. It has also
prevented the development of electricity services to meet demand (peak demand in N'Djamena is only
about 21 MW). This situation is largely due to age of the existing generating units (average age of 28
years) and the continuing lack of maintenance and spare parts. To prevent the likely collapse of the
electricity services in N'Djamena and in the urban centers of Moundou, Sarh, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and
Faya-Largeau, it is essential to commission new generating facilities and rehabilitate the existing ones.
The project will, therefore, provide resources for the:
* procurement and installation of three new diesel units totaling 20 MW of installed capacity at Farcha,
on the outskirts of N'Djamena (net output of about 15 MW). These new units will replace some of
- 33 -



the existing worn-out generating units sited in STEE's generating plant in the center of N'Djamena
and will be able to operate on crude oil, heavy fuel oil, and other petroleum products;
* connection of these new units to the N'Djamena 30 kV medium voltage network through a 25-km
transmission line;
* strengthening N'Djamena's transmission system;
*  conversion of three existing generating units in N'Djamena to operate on crude oil and heavy fuel oil.
All thermal generating units currently use diesel oil imported from Cameroon or Nigeria. Petroleum
products account for about 70% of STEE's operating costs. Diesel oil is very expensive and could be
replaced by fuel oil (imported from the refineries of Cameroon or Nigeria or produced locally once
the mini-refinery is operational or by good-quality crude oil from the Sedigi oil field). The project
will, therefore, provide resources to convert three units of the N'Djamena generating plant (units
GE4, GE5, and GE6) totaling 9 MW of power for operation on crude oil and/or fuel oil. The
feasibility of such conversion has been confirmed by the manufacturer. This will allow significant
cost reductions;
* rehabilitation of the generating unit #6 in N'Djamena; and
* scheduled maintenance programs that have generally not been carried out because STEE has lacked
financial resources. The project will provide resources for maintenance programs to be carried out on
the 12 existing generating units in N'Djamena.
Sub-Component A.l.b: New Generation and Rehabilitation of the Generating Units in Moundou,
Sarh, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and Faya-Largeau (US$2,063,000)
11.   To prevent the likely collapse of the electricity services in the urban centers of Moundou, Sarh,
Abeche, Doba, Bongor, and Faya-Largeau, it is essential to commission new generating facilities and
rehabilitate the existing ones. The project will, therefore, provide resources for the:
* procurement and installation of two new diesel generating units in Moundou that could also operate
on crude oil or heavy fuel oil and of two units in Doba (1.5 MW of installed capacity in Moundou
and 160 kVA in Doba, respectively). The existing 800 kVA diesel generating unit in Doba is too
large for the estimated demand and will therefore not be operated. Once the proposed new smaller
units are commissioned the 800 kVA unit will be transferred. The Moundou and Doba units will
allow increased delivery of electricity services in these two centers which are benefiting from the
economic activities generated by the implementation of the Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development
and Pipeline Project and where relatively large customers have requested service;
* rehabilitation of four generating units in Sarh, four units in Abeche, and the units in Faya-Largeau
and Bongor;
* transfer of three generating units (the "Beaudoin" units) from N'Djamena to the centers in Moundou
and Abeche, once the new N'Djamena generating units are fully operational at the new power plant
site; and
* scheduled maintenance programs that have generally not been carried out because of STEE's lack of
financial resources.
Sub-Component A.2. Rehabilitation and Extension of the Electricity Distribution Networks of
N'Djamena and of Moundou, Sarh, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and Faya-Largeau (US$3,216,000)
12.   The project will provide resources to rehabilitate and, when appropriate, extend the distribution
networks of N'Djamena and the secondary centers. The rehabilitation and extensions will reduce
technical losses and improve the quality of service and also STEE's finances. The project will provide
resources to extend the distribution systems in some secondary cities, in particular Moundou, Sarh, and
- 34 -



Doba, located in the petroleum producing region where demand for electricity services by the contractors
and companies associated with the implementation and operation of the Chad/Cameroon Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project is important and where existing industrial customers have requested
connection to STEE's system.
13.    Technical and non-technical losses are very high, about 30% of electricity production. A
loss-reduction program will be implemented through the project. To reduce losses, the rehabilitation of
customer service connections and meters is an important element (see paragraph 14 below). The project
will provide resources to rehabilitate 3,400 customer service connections in N'Djamena and 260 in the
secondary centers. This will help to reduce costs and improve the quality of service and the safety of
STEE customers and of its staff.
14.    A large number of electrical meters are not functioning properly and some customers who do not
have meters are billed on a lump-sum basis. The project will finance the purchase and installation of
2,200 meters (2,000 for N'Djamena and 200 for the secondary centers) and the setting up of a
pre-payment system that would help to improve STEE's finances.
Sub-Component A.3: Rehabilitation of Selected Street Lighting Facilities in N'Djamena
(US$1,647,000)
15.   In Chad, installation and maintenance of street lighting is the responsibility of the
municipalities. Over the years, the existing street lighting facilities have not been maintained and
relatively few lights are currently functioning. The proposed project will provide resources to
rehabilitate N'Djamena's public street lighting system. Under a recent agreement reached among
the Government, the Municipality of N'Djamena, and STEE, all the procurement and installation
works required to rehabilitate the public street lighting system will be subcontracted to STEE by
the Municipality together with the maintenance of all street lighting renovated infrastructure.
Sub-Component A.4: Acquisition of Spare Parts, Equipments and Tools (US$1,472,000)
16.    STEE has no inventory of spare parts which is very detrimental to the quality of service and also
very costly. The proposed project will provide resources for the creation of an inventory of spare parts
equivalent to about three months of operations in production and distribution. This should alleviate
problems arising from transport delays due to Chad's land-locked position and in transiting through the
ports of Cameroon, Nigeria, and Benin.
Sub-ComponentA.5: Implementation Studies (US$244,000)
17.   The following studies have been carried out in the context of project preparation and should be
financed retroactively: (a) assessment of the feasibility of importing fuel oil from Cameroon and
Nigeria; and (b) evaluation of the existing generating units and definition of the bid documentation for
the next set of generating units, through the provision of technical advisory services.
18.   The corresponding costs by sub-component (excluding contingencies) for this first component
are summarized in the following table:
- 35 -



Component#A - Sub-Components
Sub-Component                   Project Costs  Project Costs
(Millions    (in US $ '000)
FCFA)          _ _ _  _ _
A. 1  Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity    17,086       23,091
Production Facilities and Transmission Systems in
N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and
Faya-Largeau.
A.2   Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Water Supply Systems.  2,380  3,216
A.3   Rehabilitation of Selected Street Lighting Facilities in  1,218    1,647
N'Djamena.
A.4   Acquisition of Spare Parts, Equipments and Tools.    1,089          1,472
A.5   mplementation Studies                                 181            244
TOTAL COSTS (excluding contingencies)                21;955        29,669
All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
Component B: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Water Supply Systems (US$7,439,000)
19.    The absence of maintenance and the lack of investment to renew the existing electricity
installations due to STEE's financial problems have led to a situation where the delivery of water supply
in N'Djamena and the eight urban centers currently serviced by STEE (Moundou, Sarh, Moussoro,
Doba, Mao, Fianga, Bongor, and Abeche) cannot be sustained and will likely collapse if rehabilitation
and new investment are not carried out quickly. Water losses are estimated at 35% of production. This
component will provide resources to maintain the delivery of water services in N'Djamena and in the
eight smaller urban centers serviced by STEE. The critical activities to be implemented under this
component are:
Sub-Component B.1: Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Urban Water Supply Facilities and
Distribution Systems in N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh, Moussoro, Doba, Mao, Fianga, Bongor and
Abeche (US$6,089,000)
Sub-Component B.l.a: Rehabilitation and Extension of the Urban Water Supply Facilities and
Distribution System of N'Djamena (US$3,457,000)
20.    This sub-component will include:
Rehabilitation and Strengthening of the Production Facilities in N'Djamena. The project will
provide resources to rehabilitate seven existing water production facilities, build six new production
wells, build and equip a "forage profound" (380 m), and protect two existing water stations in
N'Djamena;
Rehabilitation and Strengthening of the Water Distribution System in N'Djamena. The project
will provide resources to rehabilitate about 17.2 krns of the N'Djamena water distribution system; and
Rehabilitation of Customer Connections and Meters, Creation of an Inventory of Critical Spare
- 36 -



Parts, and the Purchase of Small Equipment and Tools. The project will provide resources to rehabilitate
about 2,300 service connections and meters and create an inventory of critical spare parts equivalent to
about three months of operations in 'production and distribution, as well as the purchase of small
equipment and tools.
Sub-Component B.l.b: Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water Supply Facilides in Moundou,
Sarh, Moussoro, Doba, Mao, Fianga, Bongor and Abeche (US$3,352,000)
21.    This sub-component will include the rehabilitation of the existing production and water facilities
of Moundou, Sarh, Moussoro, Doba, Mao, Fianga, Bongo, and Abeche. In Moundou and Sarh, two
localities sited in the petroleum producing region, the project will extend the water distribution system.
The supply of water to Abeche is precarious, as in August 2001 floods 'destroyed.some of the "captage"
facilities. Erosion of river banks has been continuing. The project will provide resources to protect these
banks and commission three new generating units.
Sub-Component B.2: Rehabilitation of Customer Water Connection and Meters and Acquisition of
Spare Parts, Equipments and Tools (US$247,000)
22.    This sub-component will include the rehabilitation of customer service connections and meters;
creation of an inventory of critical spare parts; and purchase of small Equipment and tools. The project
will provide resources to rehabilitate about 1,000 service connections and meters; create an inventory of
spare parts equivalent to about three months of operations in production and distribution; and the
purchase of small tools required for maintenance.
Sub-Component B.3: Implementadon Studies (US$383,000)
23.    Studies for monitoring of water losses. In the water sector, technical and non-technical losses in
2001 are estimated at 35% of production. The project will provide resources to Chad for contracting with
experts to set up a monitoring system (including equipment and software) to assess water losses and
propose solutions.
24.    The costs by sub-component (excluding contingencies) for this second component are
summarized in the following table:
Component#B - Sub-Components
Sub-Component                                  Project Costs  Project Costs
(in Millions  (in US $ '000)
FCFA)
B.1   Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Urban Water  5,039       6,809
Supply Facilities and Distribution Systems in
N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh, Moussoro, Doba, Mao,
Fianga, Bongor and Abeche.
B.2    Rehabilitation of Customer Water Connection and  182          247
Meters and Acquisition of Spare Part, Equipments and
Tools.
B.3    Implementation Studies                          284            383
TOTAL                                          5,505          7,439
- 37 -



All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
Component C: Improvement in the Technical, Financial, and Environmental Performance of
STEE and Personnel Safety Standards (US$8,938,000)
25.    This component will provide resources to ensure continued improvement in the technical,
financial, and environmental and safety performance of the utility, with the objectives that by the end of
project implementation (August 2004), all the electricity and water facilities will have been rehabilitated
or replaced, that the utility will become technically and financially sound, and that the first phase of the
investment program is imnplemented successfully. The critical activities to be implemented under this
component are:
Sub-Component C.: Improvement in the Technical and Financial Performance of STEE
(US$1,880,000)
26.    Technical and non-technical losses in Chad's electricity sector are estimated to be about 30% of
production; technical and non-technical losses in the water sector are estimated at 35%. In 2001 revenue
collection was 90%. These very high losses can be reduced substantially and the objectives of STEE and
the private operator are to reduce such losses to an industry standard of 8% of production over the next
five years. Over the project implementation period of two years, losses should be reduced to 24%. To
achieve these objectives, the project will provide resources to:
*      procure and install a new commercial management software and the related computer equipment;
*      completely overhaul STEE's office equipment, in particular the computers. In addition to
improving STEE's financial performance, this should lead to a significant increase in the quality of
service and in customer satisfaction;
*      replacement of STEE's vehicle fleet. Only a few of STEE service vehicles are operational which
has led to long delays in correcting problems, particularly at the distribution level, and to high
operational costs (STEE currently rents vehicles to address customer requests) and a poor quality of
service, so that customers are reluctant to pay their bills. The project will provide resources to replace
STEE's operational vehicles and will ensure that vehicles are available in the secondary urban centers.
During project implementation, the operator and STEE will also define a new vehicle maintenance
policy, which may consist of contracting out for vehicle maintenance.
Sub-Component C.2: Payment of the Fees and Expenses of STEE's Management Contractor
(US$1,603,000)
27.    During the management phase of the 20-year contract signed between the Republic of Chad and
the private operator (see Annex 13), the operator's fees and the expenses related to its N'Djamena team
(currently seven persons; starting in September 2002, the team will comprise six persons) are not to be
financed from the operational revenues of electricity and water supply services. Up to August 2002, AFD
will finance these costs on a grant basis. The management phase is expected to end in August 2004 when
implementation of the proposed project is completed and when cheaper petroleum products from the
Sedigi project become available; the operator's fees and expenses will then be paid out of the electricity
and water supply revenues. The Government has requested that the operator's fees and costs over the
September 2002-August 2003 period be financed through the proposed credit (US$1,361,000) and that
some of the 2002 costs already incurred (US$242,000) be financed retroactively.
Sub-Component C.3: Purchase of Petroleum and Chemical Products for Treatment of Drinking Water
- 38 -



(US$4,461,000)
28.    The financial impacts of the measures described previously, such as the reduction of losses, cost
reductions particularly of petroleum products, and more efficient generating units, will start to be visible
in early 2004. Before that STEE will continue to rely on the Government to finance the costs of fuel and
chemical products and the Government has requested that such costs be financed by IDA for the next few
months, until the utility improves its financial performance.
Sub-Component C4: Implementation of Environmental and Personnel Safety Measures by STEE
(US$995,000)
29.    The environmental assessment carried out during project preparation (Annex 12) defined critical
measures to reduce land and water pollution and proposed that in order to further define and justify an
environmental management plan baseline information needs to be collected. The project will, therefore,
provide resources for STEE to carry out environmental and personnel safety measures, including; (a)
preparation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for
the resettlement of approximately 20 families, and implementation of the measures set forth in the EMP
and the RAP; (b) carrying out a baseline survey to collect data on air and water pollution at the existing
N'Djamena power plant site; and (c) introduction of security measures to reduce unauthorized access to
STEE's premises and the purchase of safety equipment for STEE's staff.
30.    The corresponding costs by sub-component (excluding contingencies) are provided in the
following table:
Component #C - Sub-Components
Sub-Component                   Project Costs  Project Costs
(in Millions  (in US$ '000)
FCFA)
C.1  Improvement in the Technical and Financial Performance of  1,391    1,880
STEE.
C.2  Payment of the Fees and Expenses of STEE's Management  1,186        1,603
Contractor.
C.3  Purchase of Petroleum and Chemical Products for Treatment  3,301    4,461
of Drinking Water.
C.4 Implementation of Environmental and Personnel Safety    736            995
Measures.
ITOTAL                                                6,615         8,938
All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
Component D: Preparatory Activities for the Second Phase of the Investment Program and Project
Oversight (US$2,808,000)
31.    This component will provide resources to: (a) finance the costs of the Project Monitoring and
Oversight Committee (CTSPU) and of STEE (and the Management Contractor) required to prepare the
- 39 -



Second Phase of the Investment Program for the electricity and water sectors (2004-2006). Some of the
activities. will be implemented by the CTSPU and some by the Management Contractor of STEE. Greater
access to electricity and water services will be provided out as the second phase of the investment
program is implemented over the 2004-2006 period. This second phase will also support the reduction of
electricity generating costs through the availability of petroleum products refined locally and through the
utilization of the associated gas from the Sedigi project.
Sub-Component D.J: Preparatory Activities Required to Prepare the Second Phase of the Investment
Program and Implemented by STEE (US$688,000)
32.    The project will provide resources to Chad to finance the expertise required to: (a) carry out a an
environmental audit and a full strategic environmental assessment and a social assessment of the
electricity and water sectors; (b) define a pre-payment system and a strategy for payment by the public
sector of its electricity and water consumption; set up a financing mechanism to fund customer
connections, enter into a contract for the maintenance of STEE's vehicle fleet, establish a human
resources policy and guidelines, and set up an inventory management system; (c) prepare a training
program for the utility staff; (d) examine the technical options regarding the generating units that should
be commissioned as part of the Second Phase of the investment program; and (e) prepare the bidding
documents for the second phase of investments in the electricity and water sectors.
Sub-Component D.2: Strengthening the Operational Capacity of CTSPU and Preparatory Activities
Required to Prepare the Second Phase of the Investment Program (US$2,119,000)
Sub-Component D.2.a: Strengthening the Operational Capacity of the CTSPU (US$824,000)
33.     The Project Monitoring and Oversight Committee (CTSPU) has been created by the
Govermnent monitor the implementation of the proposed project and help with the preparation of the
Second Phase of investment program (2004-2006) for the electricity and water-supply sectors in Chad. It
is chaired by a representative of the Minister responsible for Energy, who represents the STEE
shareholder, and includes all the other parties involved in project preparation and implementation. The
project will provide resources for Chad to contract .for the services of: (i) an engineering firm to advise
the Govemment on the implementation of the proposed electricity and water investments as described in
components 1 to 3; (ii) an expert proficient in World Bank procurement guidelines and processes; and
(iii) incremental costs that will be incurred by CTSPU in carrying out the project (see Annex 13 for the
Project Organization Chart), which include office equipment and supplies, water, electricity,
telecommunications, printing, transport, fuel, as well as the rehabilitation of some offices of the Energy
Division of MME, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants.
Sub-Component D.2.b: Activities Required to Prepare the Second Phase of the Investment Program
and Implemented by the Project Monitoring and Oversight Committee (CTSPU (US$1,295,000)
34.    Chad has requested resources to engage extemal expertise required to: (a) carry out the financial
restructuring of the electricity and water sectors; (b) implement the regulatory framework including the
establishment of the regulatory institutions for the electricity and water sectors; (c) update the master
plans for the electricity sector and define a strategy and action plan for urban and rural areas not covered
by the Concession; (d) define a strategy and action plan for developing rural electrification; (e) define
financing mechanisms and maintenance arrangements for street lighting; (f) assess the situation in the
water sector, define a strategy, and prepare a master plan and an investment program for the country and,
for N'Djamena; (g) carry out a tariff study for the electricity and water sectors, assessing in particular the
-40 -



ability of small users to pay; (h) carry out engineering work, prepare the bid documents, evaluate and
negotiate with the selected companies the commissioning of the Sedigi oil field and oil pipeline and of
the gas pipeline, of the N'Djamena mini-refinery, and the use of Sedigi's associated gas; and (i) build
capacity within MME and STEE in project preparation and evaluation, procurement, environmental
management and tariffs setting.
35.    The corresponding costs by sub-component (excluding contingencies) are provided in the
following table:
Component #D - Sub-Component
Sub-Component                   Project Costs  Project Costs
(in Millions  (in US$' 000)
______                                    ~~~~~~~~~~FCFA)
D.1  Preparatory Activities Required to Prepare the Second Phase  509     688
Df the Investment Program.
D.2  Strengthening the Operational Capacity of CTSPU and   1,568         2,119
Preparatory Activities Required to Prepare the Second Phase
of the Investment Program.
TOTAL                                                2,078          2,808
All costs exclude taxes, duties, and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
COMPONENT                        PROJECT   % of TOTAL    LOCAL     FOREIGN     LOCAL     FOREIGN      BANK       % OF BANK
COSTS     PROJECT      COSTS       COSTS      COSTS      COSTS    FINANCING    FINANCING
___________________________________                           COSTS
_____________________________________            (US$000)                (US$000)    (US$000)     (%)        (%)
A COMPONENT A: REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION
OF ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION, TRANSMISSION
AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
Al New Generation and Rehabilitaon of Existing GeneraUrng  21 ,028  39.13%        1,090     19,937     5.18%     94.82%       20,876      39.51%
Units in N'Djamena
Al New Generaton and Rehabilitation of Existing Generaton  2,063     3.84%          88       1,975     4.24%     95.76%        1,997       3.78%
units In 6 Smaller Urban Centers
A  Rehabilitation and Extension of the Electricity Distributon  3,216  5.99%        362      2,854    11.26%     88.74%        3,062       5.79%
Networks N'Djamena and Six Urban Centers
A3 Rehabilitation of Selected Street Lighting Facildties in  1,647   3.06%          247      1.400    15.00%     85.00%        1,608       3.04%
NoDjamena
A4 Acquisiton of Spare Parts, Equipments and Tools        1.472      5.80%          443      1,029    30.09%     69.91%        1.457        2.76%
A  Implementation Studies and Technical Assistance          244      0.45%           39        206    15.78%     84.22%         224         0.42%
Sub-Total Component A                                 29,869     55.21%        2.268     27,401     7.64%     92.36%       29,224      55.31%
a COMPONENT B: REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION
OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
B1 Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water Supply       3,457      6.43%          284      3,173     8.21%     91.79%        3,357        6.35%
Facilites and Distribution System of NDjamena
B1 Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water Supply       3,352      6.24%         298       3,054     8.89%     91.11%        3,302        6.25%
Facilities and Distribution Systems In Eight Urban Centers
B; Rehabillatlon of Water Connection and Meters and        247        .46%          22        225      8.91%     91.11%         24           .46%i
Acquisiton of Spare Parts, Equipments and Tools
B3 Implementation Studies and Technical Assistance          383      0.71%           1 1       373     2.81%     97.19%          376        0.71%
Sub-Total Component B                                  7,439     13.84% .       615       6,825     8.26%    280.08%        7,279       13.78%
COMPONENT C: IMPROVEMENT IN THE TECHNICAL,
FINANCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
OF STEE AND PERSONNEL SAFETY STANDARDS                                _
Cl Improvement In the Technical and Financial Performance  1,880     3.50%          387      1,493    20.59%     79.41%        1,818        3.44%
of STEE
C2 Payment of the Fees and Expenses of STEE s             1,603      2.98%          321      1,282    20.00%     80.00%        1.603        3.03%
Management Contractor
0  Purchase of Petroleum and Chemical Products for        4,461       8.30%         535      3,925     12.00%    88.00%        4,461        8.44%
Treatment of Drinking Water                                                                               I
Implementation of Environmental and Personnel Safety    995       1.85%          35        960      3.50%S    96.50%         98E         1.83%
Measures by STEE
Sub-Total Component C                                  8,938     16.63%        1,277      7,660    14.29%5    85.71%        8,849       16.74%
D COMPONENT D: PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES FOR
THE SECOND PHASE OF THE INVESTMENT
PROGRAM AND PROJECT OVERSIGHT
Dl Preparatory Activities Required to Prepare Phase 2 of the  688     1.28%                    653     5.12%     94.88%          65l        1.24%
Investment Program and Implemented by STEE                                        I
D. Strengthening of the Operastonal Capacity of the CTSPU   82        1.53%          71        754     8.62%i    91.38%          758        1.43%
D  Preparatory ActiviUes Required to Prepare Phase 2 of the  1.295   2.41%          105      1,190     8.12%     91.88%        1,262        2.39%
,b Investment program and Implemented by CTSPU
Sub-Total Component D                                  2,808      5.22%         211       2,596     7.52%       92.48       2,678        5.07%
TOTAL BASE COSTS (Excluding Contingencies)            48,853     90.91%        4,371     44,482     8.95%     91.05%       48,030      90.91%
Physical and Price Contingencies (10% of base costs)   4,885      9.09%         437       4,448     8.95%     91.05%       4.803       9.09%
TOTAL (Including Contingencies)                       53,739    100.00%        4,809     48,930     8.95%/    91 .05%      52,833     100.00%
P PF Refinancing                                           2,000                                                                2,000
[Project CoatsIDA Credit                        1     55,7391         -
- 42 -



ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
COMPONENT                    PROJECT    % of TOTAL LOCAL       FOREIGN   LOCAL      FOREIGN   BANK          % OF BANK
COSTS      PROJECT    COSTS       COSTS     COSTS      COSTS     FINANCING     FINANCING
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   C O STS
__________________________________            (US$000)               (US$000)   (US$000)     (%)       (%)
A   COMPONENT A REHABILITATION AND
EXPANSION OF ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION,
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
I SYSTEMS                                                                      I                    I
Al   Now Generation and Rehabilitation of Exising
a   Generating Units In WDlamena                                                                     I
New Diesel Units (20 MW) for N'Djamena         15,472     28.79%         735     14,737     4.75%   .95.25%        15.433      29.21%
Transmission Une - New Farcha Power             1,440      2.68%         130      1,310     9.00%    91.00%         1,427       2.70%
_     Plan/NDJamena Networtk
Strenghening of the N'Djamena Transmission        176      0.33%          12       163      7.00%    93.00%          171        0.32%
System
Conversion of Three Generating Units of         2,272      4.23%          23      2,250     1.00%    99.00%         2,255       4.27%
NDjamena (units GE4,GE5 and GE6) for
I Operating on Heavy Fuel or Crude Oil                                                                                   _
Reconstruction of the GE6 Foundation in           347      0.64%          52       295     15.00%    85.00%          322        0.61%
N'Djamena
Critical Maintenance Program for N'Djamena      1,320      2.46%         139      1,182    10.50%    89.50%         1,268       2.40%
_     Generating Units
Sub-Total A.1 a                                21,028     39.13%        1,090    19,937     5.18%     94.82%       20,876      3S.51%
Al   New Generation and Rehabilitation of Existing
b   Generation units In 6 Smaller Urban Centers
_    New GeneraUtng Units for Moundou (2 x 1.5 MW)    1,114      2.07%         56       1.059    5.00%     95.00%        1,101       2.08%
Rehabilitation of Sarh Generating Plant           226      0.42%_         11       215      5.00%    95.00%          220        0.42%
_     Rehabilitation of Abeche Generating Plant       '159       0.30%          8        151     5.00%     95.00%          153       0.29%
Transfer of Three Existing Generating Units from   75      0.14%           4         71     5.00%    95.00%           72        0.14%
N'Djamena to Moundou and Abeche
Critical Maintenance Programs for the Generating  488      0.91%           9        480     1.80%    98.20%          451        0.85%
_  Units of the Smaller Urban Centers
_    Sub-Total A,1b                                   2,063      384%          88      1t97S     4.24%     9A76%         1,997        3.78%
A2   Rehabilitaion and Extension of the Electricity
Distribution Networks in N'Djamena and of Six
Urban Centers                                                                           .
Electrification of the town of Doba               441      0.82%          11        430     2.50%    97.50%          431        0.82%
_    Rehabilitation of N'Djamena Distribution Network  964       1.79%        258        705    26.80%     73.20%          941        1.78%
Rehabilitation and Extensions of the DIstributon  1,237    2.30%          70      1,167     5.65%    94.35%         1.208       2.29%
Networks of the Smaller Urban Centers
Purchase and Installation of 2200 New Meters for  146      0.27%           1        144     1.00%    99.00%           115       0.22%
NDjamena and the Smaller Centers
Rehabilitaton des Raccordements Cllentble de      429      0.80%          21       407      5.00%    95.00%          367        0.69%
_    N'Djamena et des Centres Secondaires
Sub-Total A.2                                   3,216      5.99%         362      2,854    11.26%     8&874%        3,062       &79%
A3   Rehabilitatfon of Selected Street Lighting      1,647       3.06%        247      1,400     1500%     85.00%        1,608        3.04%
Facilities In N'DJamena
A4   AcqulsItlon of Spare Parts, Equipments and
Tools
Purchase of Spare Parts for Generation and      1,404      2.61%         421        983    30.00%    70.00%         1,391       2.63%
Distribution Activites                                                      I
Small Miscellaneous Equipments and Tools          68       0.13%          22        46     32.00%    68.00%           66        0.12%
Sub-Totai A.4                                   1,472      5.80%         443      1,029    30.09%     69.91%        1,457       2.76%
A5 . Implementation Studies and Technical
Assistance
Environmental Audit/Consultations/Environmental   92       0.17%           7         85     7.98%     92.02%          84        0.16%
Management Plan (Facilities Included in the
Project) (STEE)                                                             I
Evaluaton of Costs and Constraints for Importing  25       0.05%          25          0   100.00%      0.00%           22       0.04%
Heavy Fuel_(STEE)                                                                                      I
Provision of Technical Expertse on Existing      127       0.24%           6        121     5.00%     95.00%          118       0.22%
Generating Units and on New Units (STEE)             I
Sub-TotalA.5                                      244      0.45%          39        206    15.78%     84.22%          224       0.42%
Sub-Total Component A                          29,669     55.21%        Z268     27,401     7.64%     92.36%       29,224      55.31%
- 43 -



B   COMPONENT B: REHABILITATION AND
EXPANSION OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
Bi   Rehabilitaton and Extension of the Water
a   Supply Facilities and Distribution System In
N'Djamena
Rehabilitation and Strengthening of Production  1.489      2.77%         115      1,373    7.75%     92.25%         1467        2.78%
Facilities in N'Djamena                                                                                     I
Rehabilitation and Strengthening of Distribution  1,096    2.04%         110       986     10.00%    90.00%         1.080       2.04%
Facilities in N'DJamena
Rehabilitation of Customer Service Connecions     872      1.62%          59       813     6.75%     93.25%          810        1.53%
and Meters and Setting-up Of Spare Parts
Inventory for N'Djamena
Sub-Total B.1.a                                 3,457      6.43%         284      3,173     8.21%    91.79%         3,357       6.35%
B1.   Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water
b   Supply Facilities and Distibution Systems In
Eight Urban Centers
Rehabilitation and Strengthening of Producion   3.352      6.24%         302      3.050     9.00%    91.00%        3,303        6.25%
Facilities
62   Rehabilitation of Water Connections and Meters    247      0.46%          19       229      7.50%    92.50%          243        0.46%
and Acquisition of Spare Parts, Equipments and
Tools 
Sub-Total B.2                                   3,599      6.70%         320      3,279     &90%     91.10%         3,546       6.71%
Implementation Studies and Technical
__ Assistance__                                   _ _  __                                    _ _ _ _
Assessment of Water Losses                        279      0.52%           8       274      2.00%    98.00%          277        0.52%
Capacity Building In the Water Resources          104      0.19%           5        99      5.00%    95.00%           99        0.19%
Directorate
Sub-Total .3                                      383      0.71%          11       373      Z.81%     97.19%         376        0.71%
Sub-Total Component B                           7,439     13.84%         615      6,825     &26%    280.08%         7,279      13.78%
C   COMPONENT C: IMPROVEMENT IN THE
TECHNICAL, FINANCIAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF STEE
AND PERSONNEL SAFETY STANDARDS
C.1  Improvement In the Technical and RnancIal
Performance of STEE
Installation of a new Computerized Commercial,    519      0.97%           5       514      1.00%    99.00%          480        0.91%
Accounting, Finandal Management System and
Capacity Building
Computers and Related Equipment                   302      0.56%          30       272     10.00%     90.00%         294        0.56%
Renewal of STEE Vehicies Fleet    ,             1,059      1.97%         352       708     33.20%     66.80%        1,044       1.98%
Sub-Total C.1                                   1,880      3.50%         387      1,493    20.59%     79.41%        1,818       3.44%
C2    Payment of the Fees and Expenses of STEE's      1,603      Z98%          321      1,282    20.00%    B0.00%         1,603       3.03%
Management Contractor
C.3   Purchase of Petroleum and Chemical Products     4,461      &30%          535      3,925    1Z00%     88.00%         4,461       &44%
for Treatment of Drinking Water
C.4  Implementation of Environmental and                995      1.85%          35       960      150%      96.50%         968        1.83%
Personnel Safety Measures by STEE
Sub-Total Component C                           8,938     16.63%        1,277     7,660    14.29%     85.71%        8U849      16.74%
_   COMPONENT D: PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES
FOR THE SECOND PHASE OF THE
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT
OVERSIGHT
D.1 Preparatory activities Required to Prepare Phase
2 and Implemented STEE
Strategic Environmental Audit/Social               183      0.34S           .        177     3.00%     97.00%          178       0.34%
.   AssessmentVEnvironmental Management Plan
Studies on: Spare Parts Inventories Management;   212       0.40%          11       202      5.00%     95.00%         203        0.38%
Vehicies Maintenance, Human Resources
Management, Prepayment, Customer Connections
_    Financing
Preparation of STEE Comprehensive Capacity         31       0.06Y                    3       5.02%i   94.98%           30        0.06%
- 44 -



Building Program                             _         _          _           _         _
Extemal Expertise for Technical Specs of Phase II  13C      0.249          1         11     10.005    90.009          1it        0.229
Generating Units in N_Djamena and other Centers
Preparation of Bid Documents for Phase II Generating  30    0.069                            5.009    956009                     0.06%
Units
Preparation of Bid Documents for the Water-Supply  102      0.199                    9i      3 009    97 009            !        0.19%
Investment Program
Sub-Total D4.1                                     68i      1.2n           3        aS:      5.12%    94.8            6          1.249
D2a   Strengthening of the Operational Capacity of the
_ C TSPU_                                       _  _ _   _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _
Finalization of the Finandal Restructuring of the  46       0.09            4        4       8.00%    92.009                     0.08%
Electricity and Water Sectors                                                                                 _
Finalizaton of the Finandal Restructuring of he     46      0.099                    4.      8.009    92.009                     0.08%
Electricity and Water Sectors
Financial Audits of the IDA Credit                 81       0.119           .        5_    8.009      9200             5         0.11%
Finalization of the Enabling decrees and of the     61      0.119           .                8.00S    92.00%           5         0.11%
Regulatory Documentation                                                              I
Capacity Building: Project Evaluation de Projets8           0.159                    7i      5.009    95.005           71        0.15%
Contract Preparaton and Monitoring, Tarification and
Environmental Management                            I_I
Expenses of the Procurement Expert                  7   4   0.14%     6               61     8.009    92.009           641       0.12%
Expenses of the Engineering Firm                   34.i 0.65               36_      31      10.00%    90.009          31t        0.59%
Eligible Expenses of the CTSPU                      8       0.15            7         76     8.00%    92.00%           7         0.14%
Rehabilitation of the Offices and Equipments of the  6      0.13                     6       8.00%    92.006                     0.12%
Energle Directorate (Secretariat of the CTSPU)                                                    I
Sub-Total D.2.a                                    82,       1.53          71        75      8.62%     91.38-         75         1.43X
D2   Preparatory acvttises Required to Prepare
b   Phase 2 and Implemented by CTSPU
Electricity Master Plan - Update of Master Plans  145      0.27%          14       130     10.00%    90.00%          138        0.26%
and Review of Suppty Options (Main Urban
Centers and Southem Region)
Rural Electrificaton - Strategy Definiton and     151      0.28%          15        136    10.00%    90.00%          148        0.28%
Action Plan                                                      I
Street Lighting Systems - Strategy Development     27      0.05%           2         25     8.00%    92.00%           26        0.05%
and Maintenance Approaches
Water Supply in Main Urban Centers - Diagnostic   104      0.19%           8         96     8.00%    92.00%           99        0.19%
and RetrospecUve Study  I
Evaluaton of OpUons and Definition of a          405       0.75%          41       365     10.00%    90.00%          396        0.75%
Water-Supply Strategy within STEE Concession
Perimeter                                                                    _
Evaluaton of Options and DefinlUon of a            40      0.07%           3         36     8.00%    92.00%           39        0.07%
Water-Supply Strategy outside STEE Concession
Perimeter
Tariff and Ability to Pay Study for Water-Supply  102      0.19%           8         93     8.00%    92.00%           99        0.19%
Services
Tariff and Ability to Pay Study for Eletrcity     71       0.13%           8        66      8.00%    92.00%           70        0.13%
Services
Preparation of Bid Documents, Assistance In      250       0.47%           8       243      3.00%    97.00%          247        0.47%
Evaluating Proposals and In Negobafions - Sedigi
Pipelines and Refinery
Sub-otal D.2.b                                  1,285      141%          105      1,190     8.12%     91.88%        1,262       2.39%
Sub-Total Component D                            2,80U      5.229         211      2,59      7.51%     92.495        2,671       5.07%
TOTAL BASE COSTS (Excluding                    48,853     90.91%       4,371     44,482     8.95%     91.05%       48,030      90.91%
Contingencies)
Physical and Price Contingencies (10% of base   4.885      9.09%         437      4,448     8.95%    91.05%         4,803       9.09%
costs)                                               I           I
TOTAL (including Contingencies)                53.739    100 .00%      4,809     48.930     8.95%    91 .05%       52.833     100.00%
-45 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary
1.     The economic analysis assesses the economic returns for Chad over a 15-year period of the
investment implemented by the project. The project main economic benefits consist of the continued
delivery of electricity and water services in the capital city, N'Djamena, and in the smaller urban centers,
a decrease in the economic costs of these services, and an increase in the quality of the services. For the
electricity sector, economic costs include investrnents in new electricity generating plants and
transmission lines, conversion of generating units to operate on less expensive fuels (such as heavy fuel
or crude oil), maintenance programs, rehabilitation, and as needed extension of the distribution system
and of customer related investments. For the water sector, this includes investments in new wells,
rehabilitation of existing wells, and of the distribution system and customer related investments. For the
electricity and water sector as a whole, this includes also investments in a commercial management
system for STEE to reduce losses, the rehabilitation of the computerized management system and the
utility vehicle fleet, spare parts, personnel safety, small tools, and the costs of the operator's team. The
investment includes also the costs related to the project implementation unit.
2.     For the base case scenario, the economic internal rate of return (ERR) for Chad is estimated at
29.1% and the Net Present Value (NPV), at a 10% discount rate, is estimated to be US$45.1 million. The
economic analysis also shows that the project economic attractiveness is very dependent on the economic
costs of the fuels used in the power plants. If the fuel prices remains at the current level, the ERR will
drop to 11.3% and the NPV will be US$2.72 million.
Alternatives for Electricity Generation in Chad
3.     There is currently no feasible alternative for Chad other than to rely on domestic thermal
generation for the capital and the secondary centers, either using imported fuel or fuel from the Sedigi
project when this becomes available. Connecting N'Djamena with the power systems of Nigeria and
Cameroon was studied and not considered economically attractive. In the longer run however, the
southem region (the oil producing region) could be economically interconnected with Cameroon but this
option needs to be studied, once there is enough growth in demand for electricity which would make it
feasible. Resources are however provided under this project to thoroughly assess the technical, economic,
and financial viability of that option as of other interconnections with Cameroon and Nigeria. The solar
alternative will also be assessed thoroughly at the technical, economic, and financial levels as part of the
preparation for the Second Phase investment program.
4.     Regarding the sourcing of petroleum products, within the next two years there is no other
altemative for Chad than to continue importing petroleum products either from Cameroon or Nigeria. In
early 2004, however, it is expected that Chad would have completed the development of the Sedigi oil
project (close to Lake Chad-see map), consisting of a pipeline and a small refinery in N'Djamena which
would, inter alia, provide heavy fuel oil for the electricity sector. Starting in 2005, it is also expected that
gas associated with the production of the Sedigi oil field will be available for power generation.
-46 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value to Chad: Base Case Scenario
5.     For the purpose of this economic analysis, the base case scenario comprises the following: (a)
implementation of the proposed project over the 2002-2004 period; (b) during the period 2002-2003,
continued imports of petroleum products from Cameroon or Nigeria; and (c) starting in 2004, availability
of crude oil from the Sedigi oil field, located 340 knms north of N'Djamena.
6.     The base case scenario assumes that the 2001 electricity and water consumption levels of 98
gWh (giga watt hours) of electricity and 12.2 million m3 of water will be maintained. The estimate of the
2001 electricity and water consumption is based on: (a) STEE's sales of 71.2 gWh of electricity and 10.1
million m3 of water; and (b) the estimated non-technical losses due to billing, metering, and other
unaccounted non-technical losses, and the additional services that will be consumed in Moundou, Sarh,
Doba, and in the vicinity of the new power plant in Farcha, as well as the increased provision of street
lighting services in N'Djamena. The economic costs of these investments are estimated at US$42.4
million and incremental operating costs (excluding fuel costs) at US$8.5 million/year. The base case
economic scenario incorporates the decrease in unit fuel costs, increased efficiency of the generating
units, and the reduction in technical losses.
7.     For the base case scenario, the economic internal rate of retu!rn of the investment for Chad over a
15-year period (the average economic life of the proposed investments) is estimated at 29.1 % and the net
present value at US$45.1 million (with a discount rate of 10%).
Main Assumptions:
Main Assumptions: Project Economic Benefits
8.     The project's main economic benefits are to maintain the current levels of electricity and water
services in the areas serviced by the utility (STEE) and to improve the quality of services. As needed the
project also provides for limited extension of services. The proposed project will ensure that:
* the 2001 levels of electricity and water services in N'Djamena are maintained;
*   street lighting in N'Djamena is restored and electricity and water services in three small
urban centers located in the oil producing area are rehabilitated and extended;
*   generation costs are reduced through the commissioning of more efficient new diesel units
that could operate on fuel oil or crude oil, about 9 MW of existing diesel units in N'Djamena
are converted for operation on fuel oil or crude oil and that deferred maintenance programs
are carried out, and that spare parts are immediately available;
*   technical losses are reduced through the rehabilitation of distribution systems and
non-technical losses are reduced through the installation of a state-of-the-art commercial
management system and office equipment;
*   a significant improvement in the quality of electricity and water services delivered to STEE's
customers as improvements at the technical and commercial levels are effected; and
- 47 -



* implementation of critical actions to reduce pollution from the existing electricity generating
units and improvement of STEE personnel safety.
9.     The economic values of the consumption of electricity and water services used in the base case
analysis are based on the 2001 tariff levels of US$0.23/kWh for electricity and USSO.26/m3 for water
services. These economic values are conservative as: (a) retail residential customers in N'Djamena are
paying about US$0.30/kWh (FCFA 210/kWh) for electricity and about US$O.40/m3 (FCFA 300/m3) for
water services; and (b) they do not reflect the improved quality of the products and services.
10.    For the purpose of this economic analysis, the economic benefits related to improvements in the
quality of electricity and water services, in personnel safety, and on the environment have not been
quantified.
Main Assumptions: Project Economic Costs
11.   Investments Costs - Base Case Scenario. For the purpose of this economic analysis, project
investments costs are estimated at US$42.4 million (real 2001 US$). These include the following
incremental economic costs to Chad: (a) electricity and water investments described under project
components 1, 2, and 3 (see Annex 2); and (b) costs of activities described under component 4 supporting
project implementation, but excluding the costs of preparing the second phase of the investment program
in the electricity and water sectors and the costs already incurred (sunk costs). Physical and price
contingencies are also excluded. It is assumed that the project investments will be disbursed as follows:
14% in 2002; 67% in 2003, and 19% in 2004 (release of guarantees, etc).
12.   Incremental Oneratine Costs. These have been assumed to be US$8.5 million a year (FCFA
6.3 million/year) based on STEE's 2001 financial records. These include salary costs, maintenance and
other operating costs, but exclude taxes, duties, and financial charges paid by STEE.
13.    Petroleum Costs. The base case scenario assumes that beginning in 2004 fuel oil from the
N'Djamena mini-refinery and/or crude oil from the Sedigi oil field (340 kms north of N'Djamena) will be
delivered to STEE's power plants located in N'Djamena. The economic costs of these products delivered
to N'Djamena are estimated at US$15 per barrel (or about FCFA 60 per liter). The investment in the
wells at the Sedigi oil field has been made and most of the materials required for the construction of the
340-km pipeline between Sedigi and N'Djamena have been acquired. To assess the impact on project
economics of further delays in implementing the Sedigi project, sensitivity analysis has also been carried
out assuming continued reliance on imported products (mainly fuel oil rather than diesel oil as is the case
now) from Cameroon and/or Nigeria at conservative economic costs of US$65 per barrel (or FCFA 300
per liter). Discussions with Chad's petroleum products' importers as well as the recent assessment carried
out by STEE's private operator in the context of this project indicated that the required fuel oil could be
imported from Cameroon at about FCFA 275 per liter.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
14.    The following table presents the project ERR and the economic NPV for Chad under alternative
scenarios. As seen below, the project economics is very robust. The economic analysis also shows that
the project economic attractiveness is very dependent on the economic costs of the fuels used in the
power plants. If the fuel prices remains at the current level of about FCFA 300/liter, the ERR will drop to
11.3% and the NPV to US$2.72 million.
-48 -



Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                 Economic Criteria        |                     Assumption
ERR (%)       NPV            kWh          m3 Value     Investment       Fuel Costs
(million       Value                     Costs/Base       (FCFAAite
USS)           (USS/kWb                  Case (%)         r) (2)
. ~ ~  ~   ~   ______        (1)           L             ______       ________
Base Case                            29.1          45.1          0.23        0.253           0%              60
Investment Costs +15%                24.4          36.3          0.23        0.253          +10%             60
Investment Costs-15%                 34.8          54.0          0.23        0.253          -10%             60
Fuel Costs at FCFA 300/liter         11.3          2.72          0.23'       0.253            00/0           300
Fuel Costs at FCFA 330/liter         8.8          (2.6)          0.23        0.253           0%             330
Electricity Economic Value           42.9          82.1          0.30        0.253            0%             60
Water Economic Value                 33.3          56.0          0.23         0.40            0%       3     60
(I)       at 10% discount rate
(2)       Fuel delivered in N'Djamena
Dai0- jr25=                    COSrT3c SW WM4LYSIS FOR THE ai _L INJVESTBf rPM_=
Fbsal Yea                         2002  2D032w      2tl05  2aE  2tl0i  200E  20Ds  20tC  2tM  2012;  2Mt  20u  2015  2trt  2Di7  20'tt
tiect                                    0.0  13. - 23    1 .3 4      1     1    1      1'3   11   13    13    1    13    133   13
EBridvCaon(Wnrb() (1)                   87.61  9t:3  97.1  37.  97.1  37.  97.1 37.    97.1  97.1  97.1  97.1  97.1  97.1  97.1  97.1
W   at  CASFon (O90 m3) (1)             11.  2  1136  1.9  1.9  1     1.9   129  11.2  11.9  112   11.2  11.9  11.2  118  121.  11.
ECONOMC tENERTS (Millbn LI        .1
Becticty b  ndutiondie tD P                   2t.t  23.20 232   23i2  232   23.2  23,2  232  23.2  23a   232   23S     2  232   23,23
Water Cay0ron due to Paet                       2 Z'  3.0      3a 0    3,0   30   3.0 lt 3    3X0   3,0  3,0    30  3ao    30    30
TYE omf      "td  ue tosdPopUa t _             24.7  28.2  265  286:  26.2  2B.2  282  26:2  28.2  28.2  262   2&2  28.2  26,   2B6u
INVESTN  l (Mlillon U;S$)=                                     ==                =    =     =     ===                          =
I.E PmSIeniat Va IION             5.94   2  1.4  a   0o. .a_
1PERATIM COSTS ad  4a aon US$)
Fuel Costs                                     4.    4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8  4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8  4.8   48    4.8   4.4   4.8
iOpera3rg I4t                                  a'    as    &5    85    as   as    a5 _5       as    as    as    ai   8.5    a5   8.'
TOW OpKalrig costs                       Oq0  13.0  13.3  13.3  13,3  133   13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  1a:  13.3  133  13.
ECONOPsC CASHfLOW(Ntiflon LIS$)   4 9. -28A   3at   1Z9   12.9  1Z'   12Zg  1Z9  12.9  129   12.9  1Z6   1Z9   12.9  12S9  12.9  12.9
E:ONMC PATEOF FEiiwi             2.1%1     l=                  ==                     =      ===
WTPRESENVALUE(Mtti    NUSS       S4514 at  |10.0S dsxunir rate 
(1) STE Sals a nd wia      on wrp =
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STEE'S Past Financial Performance
1.     STEE's financial performance for the years 1997 to 2001 is presented in the Balance Sheet,
Income and Cash-flow statements for both water and electricity activities in the following paragraphs on
Past Financial Performance.
2.     The financial and technical information is based on STEE's financial statements and the technical
statistics prepared by STEE. Since 1998, STEE financial statement have either not been certified (1997)
or audited by extemal auditors. Information available for the period 1997 to 2001 shows that the
financial performance of STEE has been extremely poor. During this period, STEE's operating revenue
did not cover operating costs, let alone interest and extraordinary charges. The equity of the utility was
entirely absorbed by its accumulated losses. STEE was in a non-payment situation with all its banks and
suppliers, and technically bankrupt. Large direct (debts written off and fiscal exemption from petroleum
taxes) and indirect subsidies financed by the State (taxes and salary deductions not paid to the State)
were used to keep the STEE afloat.
3.     The technical and financial performance was poor on all counts. The technical and commercial
losses for electricity rose from 27% in 1994 to 38% in 1998 and for water supply they increased from
11% to 31% over the same period. Since 1996, the revenue from electricity sales decreased steadily and
by 2001 it had yet to reach the 1997 level. All financial ratios are negative due to the poor financial
perfornance of STEE and its cash-flow problems are largely due to the high losses and the high cost of
petroleum products used for electricity generation.
4.     The reasons for the poor performance of STEE for each of the years, 1997-2001, are given below
(see tables 5.1 to 5.4):
*    In 1997 the net profit of FCFA 15.8 billion was mainly due to the financial restructuring of
STEE, that cost FCFA 23.5 billion. In this context, the State wrote off the Agence Francaise de
Developpement's (AFD's) loans (principal and interest) amounting to FCFA 17.3 billion, the
debt related p,etroleum taxes payable to OFNAR (Road Office) amounting to FCFA F 3.6 billion,
and others items amounting to FCFA 2.6 billion (the cancellation of subsidies and cross
compensation for currents assets and liabilities between the State and STEE). The profit for the
year was offset by operating losses before interest of FCFA 7.1 billion (including a special
provision for bad debts of FCFA 6.5 billion which were previously underestimated) and the
interest on long-term debt of FCFA 430 million. In 1997, electricity generation decreased due to
the loss of one key generating unit (generating unit No 7) that was destroyed in a major fire in
N'Djamena. There was no increase in the tariff of utilities during the financial year and the
suspension of the Petroleum Tax for Fuel Oil used in the production of electricity and water was
maintained.
*   In 1998, the net loss of FCFA 1 billion, which included an operating loss before interest of FCFA
831 million was incurred for the same reasons as above. The 1998 year was characterized by a
shortage in petroleum products due to the breakdown of the Nigerian refinery. The Republic of
Chad faced problems getting enough petroleum products for its own internal consumption during
the year. As a result, the electricity generation decreased because of substantial increases in the
price of petroleum products, the shortage of spare parts, and poor maintenance of production
- 50 -



units in N'Djamena and the interior districts. There was no increase in tariffs of utilities in 1998.
The suspension of the Petroleum Tax for Petroleum Products used in the production of electricity
and water was maintained.
*   In 1999, 2000. and 2001, net losses of FCFA 3.5 billion, FCFA 6.5 billion, and FCFA 4.8 billion
respectively were mainly due to an increase in the price of petroleum products without an
equivalent increase in the electricity tariff. During these years, the country again faced a shortage
of petroleum products due the temporary closing of the Nigerian refinery and the increase in
world prices of crude oil, which increased from less than US$10 to more US$30 per barrel. In
2000 and 2001, the cost to STEE of petroleum products was higher than the value of total sales
of electricity. The suspension of the Petroleum Tax for the Petroleum Products used in the
production of electricity and water was maintained.
Future Financial performance of STEE
5.     The financial projections for STEE for the next 10 years (2002-2011) are presented in the
following paragraphs and detailed in the attached tables 5.5 to 5.7. The underlying financial and technical
assumptions are given in part 5.A of annex 5.
6.     During the first two years (2002-2003) and despite very high electricity tariffs, STEE is expected
to incur operational losses, that would be covered by AFD and Govermnent subsidies of respectively
FCFA 3.5 billion in 2002 and FCFA 4.7 billion in 2003. These losses are mainly due to the expected high
price of petroleum products (350 FCFA/liter), high operating expenses of running old generators and
high interest expenses on old and new debt. As technical and financial performance improves and the
prices of oil products decrease substantially (the minirefmery in Farcha is expected to be fully
operational at the beginning of 2004), the net income for 2004 is expected to be positive. Starting in
2004, STEE will use cheaper petroleum products, which will decrease fuel costs by about FCFA 6 billion
over the previous years. Meanwhile, starting in 2004 interest charges will increase to about FCFA 1.8
billion due to the debt financing of the relatively large investment program, initially on concessionary
terms. (The new investment includes power generating units of 20 MW at a cost of FCFA 15.6 billion in
the first phase of the investment program and 30 MW units at a cost of FCFA 20.3 billion in the second
phase of the investment program). In 2005 and 2006, the utility is expected to consolidate its financial
position and thereafter to make profit. Starting in 2005, electricity tariffs could be reduced, initially on
average by about 10% with additional tariffs decreases feasible particularly feasible for households
customers.
7.     During the first six years, the rate of return on the rate base (average net fixed assets in
operations) remains below the criteria of a 8% return. It would however rise to above 10% after 2007.
Because of the on-lending conditions granted to STEE, the debt service coverage ratio will be
satisfactory (higher than 1.5) starting in 2002. It will fall in 2008 when STEE starts to repay the principal
on its debt and faces higher interest rate. The self-financing ratio and the current ratio are satisfactory
after 2007. The liquidity position would also be satisfactory after 2004 and accounts receivables would
represent less than 70 days of billing.
- 51 -



ANNEX 5 TABLE I
STEE
BALANCE SHEET
(IN MILLIONS OF CFAF)
DECEMBER31
ASSETS
AUDITED                    UNAUDITED
FIXED ASSETS                               1997         1998        1999            2000
Gross re-evaluated fixed assets             23,622      27,194      25,249             25,300
Less: Accumulated depredation                -            (610'      (1377)            (L2,)
Total net fixed assets                       23,622       26,584      23,872            22,665
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & others investments                    1,142         200          99               402
Accounts receivable net - Private sector     1,127        1,262       1,345             4,355
Accounts receivable - Administration sector   719         1,583       1,443               131
Others receivables                            194        1,503         812               439
Inventories net                              1,672       1,676       2,196              1,038
Advanced to suppliers                          62           87         190                211
Total current assets                          4,915        6,311       6,085              6,576
TOTAL ASSETS                                 28,537       32,895      29,957             29,241
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                                               _ I                      __l__      _  _
Capital                                     4,989        4,989       4,989              4,989
Re-evaluation surpluses                    10,289       10,246      10,246             10,246
Grant to be capitalized - KfW-Ab6ch6        5,202        5,202       5,202              5,202
Creditors debts transferred to the State    -            -           -                  8,532
Others grants                                -           4,756        2,528             1,702
Accumulated losses (deficit)               (8,347)      (9,376)     (12,910)          (19,451)
Total equity                                 12,133       15,818      10,055             11,220
LONG TERM DEBT
Debts retroceded by the State                7,001       7,501        7,338             8,273
Customers Advances                           1,108        1,183       1,281             1,281
Total Long term debt                          8,110        8,684       8,619              9,554
CURRENT LIABILITIES                     _                        _______X_
Bank overdraft & bank papers                 1,138        1,708       2,269             1,695
Suppliers                                    5,008       5,411        7,054             6,456
Due to Administration (Income taxes, rights, sal  3       1,094       1,541 _
Others liabilities and provisions of expenses  2,144       180         419                316
Total current liabilities                     8,293        8,393      11,283              8,467
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                 28,536       32,895      29,957             29,241
- 52 -



ANNEX 5 TABLE 2
STEE
Income Statement
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
(In millions CFAF)
1997    1    199B     1   1999   r   2000        2001
Unaudited
Totad Operating Revenues                                                    12,349        12,090     11,403       8.276     11,989
Total Operating Expenses                                                    19,909        13,236     14,767      15.216     20,827
Operating Income (Loss)                                                     i7,560        (1,146      (3,364)     6,940     (8,838
Interest & exchange losses                                                    429           198        261          70         376
Operatfng Income (Loss) before Interest                                     (7,131)        (9,8)     (3,103)      6,870)    (8,42)
Inoome taxes                                                                  183           163         170         91
Extraordinary Income                                                        23,498          280                    490       4,070
Net operating Income (Loss) before Interest                                 16,185         (830      (3,2731      6,471)     (4,392'
Cnterest and exchange losses                                                  429           198         261         70         376
Net Income (Coss)                                                           15,756 (o,029w use3                   8,5413    (4,7683
Note 1- The extraofdinary Income Is related to the annulatlons of long tenm debt of AFD for an amount of around 17,3 billions CFAF,
OFNAFt & suppilers for 4 billions of CFA F *iid cancellaidon of subsidies for around 4.5 billions of CFA F less write-off of currnt assets
(losws on InventoHres, f xed radiat5on, n2t loss on ass0ts and llabilitles wHte-off Wtth the State etc.) r an amount
of around 2,3 billions of CFA F.                                      i-
STEE
Unaudited Cash flow Statement
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
(In millions C FA )
Funds generated by opeamtlons:                                        l                 998     |   1999    |   2000   |   2001
Net operating Income (Loss) before interest                                                (830)     (3,273)1     6,471)     (4,392)
Add: Deprec2abon                                                                            610         767       1 ,258     15,620
Increase (decrease) in W orking Capital othr than Cash                                    (,809j      2,454      (2,430)      5,253
Grants                                                                                     (280)                  (490       (i,4_07J0
Gross Internal Cash used by operations                                                    (3'309)       (52)     (8,133)     (1,589)
Interest expense                                                                            (198)   *(261 )         (70)      (376)
Debts net decrease                                                                                     (163)                  (716)
Others                                                                                                             (336) 
Customers advance for connection & meters                                                    75          98                    369
Not tnternal Cash flow used                                                               (3,433)      (378)     (8,539)     (2,312'
Capital expenditures                                                                       3,572      (1,944)        51       2,870
Flnancrd by:I
Grants                                                                |2,372                          /,2)5,846
Creditor's desbts transferrd to Chad                                                                              8,532 
Long term debts net increase                                                                500                    935
Total extemal sources of fnnanclng                                                         2,872      (,2)        9,467       5,846
(Increase) decrease In B3ank overdraft                                                    (4,133)       62         877         664
(Bank Overdraft) cash at the beginning of year                                                4       (1,508)     2,170'     (1,293)
Bank overdraft at the and of year                                                         (4,129)    (2,170)      1,293'       (829)
Increase (Decrease) In Working Capital
Accounts receivable net - Prtvate sector                                                  (135)        (83)     (3,010'     1,087
Accounts recelvable - Administration sector                                               (8641        140       i, 312     ( 1, 326)
Accounts receivable - employees                                                              O           0    0           0
Others raceivables                                                                       ( 1,30 9)     691        373         439
Inventodes not                                                                              (5)       (520:      1,158       (1103'
Advanced to suppliers                                                                      (25)       (103)        (21)       211
Suppliens                                                                                  403       1,643        (598)     (2,953)
Due to Administrabon (income taxes, rights, sales taxes, etc.)                            1,091        447      ( 1,541 )      92
Others liabilities and pravshlons of expenses                                           (1i .94        23         1Q          Q
Total increase (decrease) in working capital                                              (2,8091l     2,454     (2,4301      5,253
-53 -



ANNEX 5 TABLE 3         _
STEE
FINANCIAL & TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE
FOR THE PERiOD OF 1997-2001
FJectricity: (IN GWH)                                          1997         1998        1999          2000         2001
Energy sold                                                    57,696       53,122       58,260        58,939      63,938
Energy produced                                                88,846       78,568      89,481         86,437     101,942
% of loss (1- Energy sold/Energy produced)                        35%          32%         35%           32%          37%
Revenue of Energy sold In millions of CFAF                        9,981        8,861       9,553         9,638       10,309
Average Tariff of elecricity ot MT & BT (CFAF/kWh)                 173          167          164           164         161
Numbers of connectionsimeters for Bectricity                     13,097       13,991      14,773        15,493       16,395
Water (Thousand of M>)
Water sold                                                      8,366        8,612        7,711         8,308        7,950
Water prduced                                                  11,959       11,801       12,433        12,864       13,360
% of loss (1- Water soldWater produced)                           30%          27%         38%           35%          40%
Revenue of Water Sold In millions of CFAF                         1,539        1,580       1,454          1,587       1,545
Average Tariff for Water (CFAFIM3)                                 184           183         189           191          194
Number pf connecUons/Meters for Water                            18,382       19,380       21,075        21,677      22,319
Total permanent emplope                                            480           514         490           480          468
Exchange rate of I FF In CFAF                                      100           100         100           100          100
Balance sheet ratis
Current ratio (times) = Current assets/current liabiFes            0.59         0.75         0.54          0.78        0.48
Debt E uRy ratlo= Long term debV(Debts Equity)                     28%           26%         29%           33%          31%
Accounts Receivables (Day) = Acc. receivables/Total revenue'365     55            86          89           198          144
Income Statement ratios                                                  _
Annual Revenue Growth                                            4.05%         -2.10%      -5.68%       -27.42%       44.86%
Rate base = Net fixed assets in operations average 2 years       22,260       25,103       25,228        23,269      23,286
Rate of return = NOI BVRate Base                                 72.71%       -3.31%      -12.97%       -27.81%      -18.86%
Operating ratio = Ol-interest/Total Operating revenue              -58%          -8%         -27%         -83%         -71%
Net Operating Income as % Total Operating Revenue               127.59%       -8.51%      -30.99%       -79.04%      -39.77%
Statement of Cash flow ratios
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                                -1729.79%      -89.15%    -12198.57%     -211.72%
Self Financing Ratio                                                         -96.10%       19.45%    -16743.14%      -80.568%
Note: For 1997 Income statement the operating rato and Net OperalUng Income as % of Total Opberating Revenue are determinred
before the Extraordinary Income of around 23,4 billions of CFA F. I    I            I            II
Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Net Intemal Cash generated by operatons/(Interest expenses + Debts Repayments)
Self Finandng Rato = Net Intemal Cash generated/Capial e  nditures
-54 -



STEE                          ANNEX S TABLE 4
PRO-FORMA OPENING UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEET
FINANCIALLY RESTRUCTURED
(IN MILLIONS OF CFAF
JANUARY Ist 2002
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS                                                                                           UNAUDITED
- Owed by State                                                                                              21 138
- Owed by STEE                                                                                                2,768
Total not fixed assets                                                                                          23 906
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & others Investments                                                                         =  0            42
Accounts receivable net - Private sector                                                                       3,268
Accounts receivable - Administration sector                                                         7 7        1,457
Inventories net                                                                                                1,141
Total current assets                                                                                             5,908
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                                                    29,814
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Capital                                                                                                        4.989
State's right on fixed assets                                                                                 10,787
Total equity                                                                                                    15,776
LONG TERM DEBT
Debts retroceded by the State (Credit SEERAT)                                                                  2,175
Customers Advances                                                                                             1 650
Total Long term debt                                                                                             3 825
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdraft & bank papers                                                                                     671
Suppihers                                                                                                      3 503
Due to Administration (Income taxes rights sales taxes. etc.)                                                     92
Others liabilities and provisions of expenses                                                                   5,947
Total current lIabilItIes                                                                                       10,213
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                                                                    29,814
Note 1-This Balance Sheet take In consideration:
a) A change of the ownership of fixed assets (mainly infrastructure of electricity & water) by the transfer of those assets from STEE
to the State to incorporate the new legal framework of the CONCESSION.
b)) A Capital restructuring by an absorption of accumulated of losses to ZERO.
Note 2 - Transfer of fixed assets to State
Fixed assets owned by the State                                                                                 21,138
Cancellation of re-evaluation surpluses related to the re-evalution of fixed assets                             10,246
Transferred of STEE to State of the Long term debts related to fixed assets acqulsitions                         7,819
Transferred of grants related to the acquisitlion of fixed assets ( AFD -Mobile power units & Libyans Fixed P.U.)  2,135
Creditor's debts transferred to the State related to fixed assets acgulsitlons                                     "A
State's right on fixed assets                                                                                   21,096
This transaction is a contractual conditions In the legal documentation signed between The Govn't of Chad and The Private 0 erator.
Note 3 - Accumulated losses reduced to ZERO
The reduction of accumulated losses was done as followed
Accumulated losses at and of 2001                                                                               (24,228)
Plus 
State's riAht on fixed assets                                                                                   10,047
Grant to be capitalized - KfW\-Ab6chb                                                                            5,202
Creditor's debts transferred to the State                                                                        7,636
Others grants                                                                                                    1 343
-55 -



SEE                        Atl@EXS TABE5
(INBaKMF CFAFI
-           mml |X  2M14     M    ID0   M    210   I   M10   1 XO 2M9  2MtO     =IAt
FDDASSEI M   
QDfbdasetbia               24,S6   44S     49448    6Z76    76,079   78,612   815BX   BZ5fi0  84S519   8%488
Gmnsfboqdamtsn                98    1,723   Z548     Z548    ZE4  248     Z548 Z548        Z548     Z548  s
Lem: hoxnnae dloa*in &PMA*m               __am                              -a77s t1Z471 aA814 ___DM) 3.Z1
Cash&oh     s                508    ZC07    5.533   7S02    1a794    1a817   18,359   21,40    25,51    30S99
Ams readai rt               Z770    Z84D    1,ao   1.0 mo    00 t cc  ta     1,000    t.0 aco   0       1 am t c
hArb3ieS rle                1,0C0   1,C00             .       .                              _ 
70TALASSETS          2%      261 Z    72       t,4    73%742   7s 163   77,4s7  7%lW    M         aO40
capiw               ~~~4,ss  4ss     4,M9    4,M      4,s6     4,M     4,9 s      W     As4s6s    4,S89
FWs Set  R               14,9D7  1Z7S3   1aQ6sD   em      ,4452    433h8    Z224     ill      t0
owVuwA                             .        -      ZS37 _w7         6.ae    7,as3    8,0s13  _R112     Qa122
PFtired evs (cida)           35      719    1;3     1,97     3,M     544ss    4423    1as4    14237  l1a=Z
TOW Gety                    2022    I40      1w2     140E8   t%wI 4            2z,72s  24150    2M aWA3312
Ds M*ecBbyf&Wt              AM7B 2      B37z4e4     4Z61D   SZ7s6i  5 Z59 523         9 51 M9  mm    s  49.4e4
Laws MAibs d LTD                             .                27       4)      t35)    (1.054  (1,4q     (11M
CafReNTLUV  s                        _ 
&qemw3dAet dc'1M                 1;B83    396      633    1,104    1,74E    z425    zOss    a89       3 244
MdriesdLTD.                                           .       247      247     354     1p062   1,413     1,879
Tdal r lwilw                1,2Z    1,23     3g6  1  s33               m 13t tst Z779  41t8  4to AI     4123
iTOTAL=smANDuLsLmEs_        mmn     4z62t   447!D   6134     7374t   75t63    7747      4E     s,2      0i
-56 -



X1~EW4.OBRSBaE G5RL31
(hNk MCAF)
'                  ~~~~RMO
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -~~~~~~~~~2X   2M3  33o  3305 0  23  24M  2 3  33    311
Tfki_pnftFb                     KM    187   18234  1803  13     2W    3704   2Ml4,  mm3   2%,13D
TC     _ _   _ Bp3             171773  18,31  1533  1561D  1%7M  17JM8  17,35  19.870  3,7 mm  a=
qlbmb(~~~~~~ 61                           1,6    28     311t7  5.4    48      .9   7,34
H_ _ __E_ 82                          1234  1,8m  1,31   13     1,9S   13i 37  W     40?7  3
g*     mpblId           %             R     Z273  35i    4      8      7,318 6S 7 ?  10Wi  11,1V
kUIT t1                         346    7     346   8B    1,104  1,745  Z425   ZOos   Z6    3
Qr4bdAF&Sba                    3473   4701   -
Habm1 u1s                                   Z334 IZ69    A3     4)0   4.34    on1    7     7937
9-    1-,4  18t6  1,31  #137    1,9t 3  X1,  3,85    4W?   3,818
Ak, 7m3                                      454   m     13     2.132  2964  237     AM
snm
,     VSTMDW4T
( h _as^F)
R&%hgwodby_-                   2D  ZtMl T      am           I   W   1   1a   8 2tX7  2M    20 ZilT
N CuImU"b*rmnfi                 ?87   137 2M 3 T,a4      3,35T  4 1    4014  4,511   7,8   7,943
Add:De  lrstdoPlA*br|           7i7 | 1,118  1,083  1,83  2.|C4 21     1C31 2183 |  Z278  Z372
Lo   G                         (34.4 4  (4701)  -         -      -      - -           -     -
kue(dwldin W   Uiw4wi( i W.h ..74      (13.  1,54   7    4M7     63    811           82     s3
CpAb            (b             (41q    (      2   432    5911   474| 7,638    5 4"   10,2O9  103
I to1aeia                       6S    1,24  1,84  1,31   135    1,943  1,93=  337    4C37 T a78
lMt                              -     -     -          -        317   247    A4     1,83  1413
N ___ ___ ___ ___kw __w__ ___ ___ _   el    337    23    W s91  454    so5    437    5139  847
C4Mopd8z                        1'm  15M3   Rog4  13,31  1331   2533   137    1,85   137    UV
_tE_d_t_4A783                         18A   R677  10Q1  1Ql-            -      -  I   - 
Q,A&AIW Garts                   3,473  4,701      Z 2537  2Z53?  1,31  1,1    1,31   1,010  1,010
Tdk _                         _ _ _                                        _---______9 1
T19emi. sdsbfdu        _3            3255  %5647  35m   t       1,010  1,1   I'M     1010   010
h. Wncmh                       M8    1,04   3,8   147    36     3=7    43     30B1 41      4518
'Oghutwtbe*ftc                   -     8    30    537   737    1Q79   13,1   18,3M  21471  2531
'bidfl.gSsU~                    3m   4701   453          2537  1 ,0794  10.317  14.1C  1,4010 3,32  271C
- 57 -



mm                    At5 TOE7E
y#NAWI~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                 20C4 mm  20    m      2tlX     m     2=       0     2 Zlt
Etddb3                n f~~~~~~~~~~rLi  741Im  8x"4  84121  mm  1K(04  8a 14           Im
QfOdBufe brM9pAcc          3M  t Z815 X94       AM Y    8                     4aZ 3,71 392  SEz
Tdd Awaareseie                759    74M    84OtM  IR730  1aUIX  1M5     IgoS   12vm3  1D      IfAl
eG   OEyp 1l#m                    1A        tol   11D,38 118,til 1 2k34  ineU   14U0 143,174 1SN
lSd 1 * Eit8 _gnxbxt ~~~~~23%  2i0;  2D%  X,       10%     1_      06  ff        8%      WAB
ft mnBN  hMnr fidCHfA         1aZ=          t39Am   1536  ta60    1432    I      2V      23160  204
_TwvfflW dll&yd T& BTPP&   t   E4      IN  168      la             167   1e8 168GO 
Mrlmd-dam.mfaEMt              tSA24   14715  17,3tD  -146E  24074  2%=0  3=8     37^8    4,W8   4"
VlUr g jd tn 5 3al7 2~~~~~~~~~178  %90    10,4 1ol    1  u        M            142M%6
Hwrd On d VlUr         l~~~~~~~4  493  Ms   So     #11     es    __7      722    V3      l
TdzMaJaedlForseb              BS78   %WI   1A115   w287   I1,5    U,104  U05B   14M8    ion     1561B
Hfwp*rd                       1KM8   131ae  1l2,29  1378  14ta4   1Aa8   1536    1%m1   I?,61   104
%dbm - fwmo -wp               37%    30%    28%    29%     2M      2m     16     19%      m     I
RmldVhr Sdd bnfMdCFF          1,79    1,784  1,"2   *al    X123    X223    Z401   XOo    XTSY    x803
_OUThrilvjg(Slhk               1a5    184    1a4    lag    1a4     IN      1a4    1e4    IN4     r4
ld_b*r                        2axM3   2D0,63  2R s3  21,61  24M    2U,a 1m     -RM       M       3XOt9
Bp nb d 1 U; hnaAF             740    74D    740    740     740    74D     74D    74D     74D    T40
anuneDrhs)  = a        ~~~~~~~~~3As  4sY  16  13,"  an     7A4     as7    r.8    Ga4     GS?
DsME *WIy 9tn&bcB t"Db+EV      (Lis   01     OAE    C70    CL7     0.70    OmY    an   6   2     a
AmRXfFF Abks) 3= Sra: tiEsdJ nl  71  70     ss     as     s5      03     s2             59 as  5
X"Fb"0Q                        2518%  3M     &M%    It"%   6M   a   72#s% am      7.7n;7%s ?.V   .0
R1e lxmrccN %fal ss&lhpmcaw2 qU       2913E4  33W   4102   57,3s3  0,147  ss=7   saslm   sSEs    We
PADd n = NetCfnb BlbkebmWFba   403b   s2     5m%    SAM    srS     6.e%   62V     1UfS   I&      1A
qxSb=(qxETdd    q    1.zY   ~~~~~~~~~~1.18  023  an2  C77  W2   0a68            aY zG  amX
N91MtqFgtdmslehL fs%TdStEwogR?au  GM  MM     139 K WS      173M    I       2LW    M      23aM    2e26
CDap tSiwspri          Z     f           M7 ZZ3       2Z       73  z   78    321.    2W  1   a8i
Thr *1s /PU Rma30o                                    as      02s     0.78                  2A? xa 2 70
Sef Ru* RFo = (qhm e~ ti  1 S ae + 
-58 -



Annex 5 Assumption
CHAD
CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical and Financial Assumptions Underlying the Financial Projections for STEE (2002-2011)
General
*   Projections are made in constant terms (2002 FCFA). This means that the true revenue and
expenses will change with inflation and the devaluation of the FCFA. A tariff adjustment
formula is in force for inflation and devaluation of the currency in the contract signed between
the Government Chad and the Private Operator (Vivendi-Diestmann).
*   A major financial restructuring of STEE is under way. This financial restructuring consists of
transferring all current assets (except stocks) and liabilities, including advances for connections,
advances for consumption, and long-term debt service, to a State entity. Furthermore, the
infrastructure operating assets need to be transferred to the State. Legal and accounting steps
remain to be completed to enable STEE to operate as a Concessionaire of public utilities. Such
activities will be completed in the context of the project.
*   The reference year for technical and financial comparisons is 1997, but the present forecasts
were updated with the 2001 figures.
2.     Operating Income
*   Sales: In 1997, electricity sales amounted to 57.7 gWh (giga watt hours), with an average tariff
of FCFA 185 for low voltage and FCFA 155 (Energy and Capacity) for medium voltage. For the
same year, water sales were 8.6 million m3, with an average tariff of FCFA 182/m3.
*   These tariffs are kept constant in FCFA during the forecast period.
*   Demand forecast: For the period 2002-2011, the demand for electricity is estimated to grow by
an average rate of 8% per year in N'Djamena and in the smaller centers. During the same period,
the demand for water is estimated to increase by an average rate of 6.6% in N'Djamena and 4.5%
in the smaller centers.
*   Other revenues (mainly meter connections to the network) would increase at an average rate of
11.25% during this period.
*   Service coverage: The service coverage for electricity is estimated at 12% (117,900 persons) in
2002 in the territory of the concession and is expected to increase to 23. 4% (335,200 persons) by
2011. The number of customers would increase from 16,224 to 46,475; i.e., an annual average
increase of 11.8%. The service coverage for water supply is about 44.8% of the population in the
territory of the concession in 2002 and is expected to reach 51.1% by 2011. The number of
customers in 2002 is 20,057 and would increase to 31,853 by 2011; i.e., an average annual
increase of 5.6%. Meanwhile, the number of standpipes would increase from 446 to 756; i.e. ,an
average growth of 5.8%.
- 59 -



*   The personnel (local) cost will increase by an average of around 2% during this period. For the
first two years of the concession contract, the cost for the Operator's foreign employees will be
about FCFA 1.2 billion per year and FCFA 0.8 billion from 2004 to 2007. Thereafter, the cost
will stabilize at FCFA 638 million a year.
3. Operating expenses
A. Electricity
*   Electricity is currently produced by old thermal diesel units at high costs with poor technical
performance. Starting in mid-2003, the new power plant of 20 MW of installed capacity,
financed under the proposed project, will be operational. This plant will have three production
units operating on fuel oil or crude oil. A second generation tranche of 30 MW will need to be
commissioned in 2005-2006 and those generating units will have the capacity to use heavy fuel
oil, Sedigi crude oil, or natural gas. Petroleum product costs are estimated on the basis of
constant costs. Specific unit consumption is as follows:
N'Djamena -
Old plant -(Deisel Oil and MDO        245 gr./kWh
New Farcha Plant                      200 gr./kWh
Fuel Oil                              210 gr./ kWh
Natural Gas                           210 gr./ kWh
(* gr/kWh=grams per kWh)
*   During the forecast period of 10 years, average petroleum product costs are assumed to be
unchanged and free of all taxes:
Products from importation (2002-2004):
Diesel Oil (850 gr./L*)                 350 FCFA /L
Products from the Farcha Refmery or Sedigi oil field (2004 and later)
Diesel Oil (850 gr./L)                  350 FCFA /L
Fuel Oil (900 gr./L)                     60 FCFA /L
Natural Gas (? gr./L)                     0 FCFA /L
(* gr/L=grams per liter)
Regarding the natural gas cost, a fixed charge of FCFA 653 million per year is included
representing the amortization cost of the gas pipeline from Sedigi to N'Djamena.
*   Material and repairs include repairs of production units and the network, gasoline, lube oil,
spare parts, and meters. The expenses for these items will increase from the 2002-2003 level
because of poor maintenance of past years and the age of existing power units. During the
following two years, the costs will decrease substantially with the installation and operation
of new power units in operation and improvement in production efficiency. After these
periods, the cost will increase by an average rate of 5% per annum.
- 60 -



*   Provision for bad debt of private customers is calculated as a percentage of sales. It will
decrease regularly from 16% in 2002 to 4% in 2011.
*   Structural investment and the renewal of fixed assets for the State will be fully amortized
by the end of the concession, on a straight-line basis. The concession's own assets will be
amortized over their useful life, on a straight-line basis.
*   Financial charges cover a fixed charge paid to the State for the service of the old long-term
debt, an interest rate equivalent to the IDA interest charge for the first seven years of the
project and an interest rate of 70/o/year thereafter. The principal is to be repaid in FCFA by
STEE over 15 years after a grace period of 7 years.
*   Depreciation: during the period of concession, the average rate of depreciation and
provision for renewal of the average gross fixed assets is 3.5% a year.
*   Income tax basis: to comply with income tax regulations, the income tax will be the higher
of: 45% of the operating income or 1.5% of total operating revenues.
B. Water Supply
*   Water is extracted from artesian wells by a pumping system operated by electricity and small
diesel oil units. The whole system is being operated at high costs with poor technical
performance. The cost of electricity (production from small units and purchase from the
electricity division) represents more than 30% of the total direct costs of production.
*   Material and repairs  include repairs of production units and the network, chemical
products, gasoline, lube oil, and spare parts. These expenses will be stable during the first
two years. Thereafter, these costs will increase by about 3-5% per annum.
*   Provision for bad debt of private customers is calculated as a percentage of private sales. It
gradually decreases from 15% in 2002 to 6% in 2011.
*   The investmnent and the renewal of fixed assets for the State will be fully amortized by the
end of the concession, on straight-line basis. The concession's own assets are amortized over
their useful life; on a straight-line basis.
*   Financial charges cover a fixed charge paid to the State for the service of the old long-term
debt and an interest charge equivalent to the IDA terms for new debt related to water supply.
STEE will repaid the State in FCFA.
*   Depreciation: during the period of concession, the average rate of depreciation and
provision for renewal of the average gross fixed assets is 3.5% a year.
*   Income tax basis: to comply with income tax regulations, the income tax will be the higher
of: 45% of the operating income or 1.5% of total operating revenues.
4.     Balance sheets
- 61 -



*   The opening balance sheet for 2002 show: (a) total net assets owned by the State of FCFA
26.2 billion, of which accounts receivable and inventories account for FCFA 2.8 billion; and
(b) total equity and liabilities amount :to FCFA 26.2 billion; the State's investment in the
equity of STEE is valued at FCFA 5 billion; the State's right to fixed assets is valued at
FCFA 15 billion; and customer advances and accounts payable amount to FCFA 1.2 billion.
* Due to the financial restructuring and transformation of STEE into a concession, all the rest
of its assets and related liabilities have been transferred to the State. As a condition of debt
restructuring, the State had taken the full responsibility for their liquidation and coverage of
the gap, if any.
*   Net account receivables reflect the objective of reducing its level to the equivalent of two
months of billing, beginning in 2004. Net provisions for bad debts are estimated at over
FCFA 1.5 billion per year in 2002 and decrease to less than FCFA 1 billion during the period
of 2005-10.
* Long-term debt represents loans from international lenders in support of the new
investment program. These debts are transferred from the State to the STEE at conditions
tailored to the Chadian's situation, supporting tariff decreases and the financial recovery of
STEE. These conditions are different for the electricity and for the water sector (see above).
*   Customers' advances are estimated at one month of consumption.
*   Accounts payable represent the equivalent of less than 30 days of expenses for goods,
salaries, and services.
5.     Tariffs
*   The tariff applicable to the electricity and water services will be subject to a formula for
automatic adjustment if some financial ratios are not met. The main ratio is the rate of return on.
the net fixed assets in operations. In addition, a quarterly inflation adjustment could be made to
the tariff for each service.
*   For the forecast period, the electricity tariff has been maintained at the 2001 high level of FCFA
185/kWh for low voltage customers and FCFA 155/kWh for medium voltage customers
(covering the Energy and Fixed Charges) for an average of FCFA 163/kWh, and the tariff for
water is FCFA 183/m3.
- 62 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement
General
1.    A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 2000,
following a first CPAR in 1993. Procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines.
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since the Chad's Public Procurement Code (Decree 859/PR/SGG/90) allows
IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
2.     The conclusions and recommendations of the CPAR are incorporated into a Financial
Management Assessment Report (FMAR) for the Chad, which provides a synthesis of the CPAR and the
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA).  The main conclusion regarding public
procurement procedures, which apply to an aggregate contract amount of about US$60 million per year,
is as follows. The legal and administrative framework, which is solid and based on the principle of
competition, constitutes an acceptable basis; however, it needs urgent and significant improvement to
change the existing cumbersome procedures and to increase the absorption of financial resources and
provide more efficiency and transparency in procurement.
3.     Some improvements suggested by the CPAR have already been achieved: (a) a Bidder Guide was
elaborated and included in the CPAR, and training sessions provided; and (b) it was decided that a Regie
Account would be opened by the Fiscal Commission to issue the Treasury checks. In addition, the Bank
has expressed its availability to provide an IDF grant or similar support to assist the Government in the
implementation of the recommendations of the CPAR, subject to a Government request.
Guidelines
4.     Procurement of goods and works financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits published in 1995 and updated in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Pre-qualification and
Standard Bidding documents for goods and civil works and the Standard Bid Evaluation Forms will be
used. The Bank's Standard Supply & Installation of Plant and Equipment will be used for the
construction of a new generating unit built on a turnkey basis.
5.    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with
Chadian procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA, provided that: (a) bids are advertised in
national newspapers with a wide circulation; (b) the bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation,
award criteria, and bidder qualification; (c) bidders are given adequate response time to prepare and
submit bids (minimum four weeks); (d) technical and financial bids are publicly and simultaneously
opened; (e) bids are awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (f) no eligible bidder is precluded from
participation, regardless of nationality; (g) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic
manufacturers or suppliers; and (h) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding
document will be submitted to and found acceptable by IDA.
6.     Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in
- 63 -



September 1997 and January 1999). The World Bank's Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP), as
developed by the Bank, will be used for requesting proposals and for selection and appointment of
consultants. The Bank's Sample form of Evaluation Report will also be used for the Selection of
Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e., those not exceeding six
months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The Government has been briefed about the
features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regard to advertisement, bid opening, and
various steps in the IDA reviews.
Advertising
7.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was prepared before appraisal and will be issued in the
United Nations Development Business (UNDB), as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for any
ICB for works, goods, and major consulting assignments to obtain expressions of interest. The GPN will
also be issued in the national press for contracts to be awarded under NCB. The detailed GPN for
subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in the UNDB. It will be updated annually
for all outstanding procurement. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest (EOI)
for large contracts for consultants services (above US$100,000 equivalent) and will also be advertised in
the UNDB and sufficient time will be allowed for responses to such specific notices (minimum 30 days)
before preparing the short list. The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost
$10,000,000 or more will be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts
under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
8.     The related bidding documents will not be released and neither will the short list of consultants
be prepared until eight weeks after the GPN has been published. The GPN will be updated annually for
those contracts still outstanding. SPNs for goods and works will be advertised locally, and for large
contracts (ICB), intemationally. Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the bid documents.
Advance Contracting
9.     Given the urgency of the program, the Borrower wished to proceed with the initial steps of
procurement before signing the related Credit Agreement. The procurement procedures, including the
advertising, must be in accordance with the Guidelines in order for contracts to be eligible for Bank
financing, and the normal review process by the Bank has to be followed.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
10.    STEE is the executing agency for the program, except for the regulatory and other studies and the
preparation of the second phase, which will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME), which will also be charged with project oversight. Under a decree adopted recently, an
inter-ministerial committee has been set up (Comite Technique de Suivi du Programme d'Urgence de la
STEE) that will carry out the day-to-day responsibilities for program oversight. The President of the
Committee will be the Director of Energy of the MME. The Committee will be assisted by two experts: a
procurement specialist who will review and approve all the procurement carried out under the program
and an engineering consultant, who will certify all the work that will be done by STEE under the
program.
11.    STEE will be assisted in the implementation of the program by Vivendi-Dietsmann, a private
sector operator, selected by the Government to manage STEE, under a contract dated September 15,
2000. The contract is for a period of 30 years, divided into three phases: the first is a straightforward
management contract, and the private operator (Vivendi) is paid a management fee. The second phase is
- 64 -



an "affennage," and the third phase is a full privatization phase or "concession". Under this contract
(Appendix 15, Clause 7) Vivendi-Dietsrnann must comply with Chadian procurement procedures and
IDA's procurement guidelines or those of any other organizations participating in the financing of STEE.
12.   Implementation of the proposed program is expected to last two years. Approximately half the
investments are in new generating facilities, which will be built on a turnkey basis and acquired on an
advance procurement basis. The pre-qualification documents are at a well-advanced stage. In addition, an
agreement has been reached within the Government that procurement under the proposed program will
be streamlined, with only two ministries required to approve the contracts: the Ministry of Finance and
the Secretary General of the Government.
13.    To speed up implementation of the emergency credit, the Government has prepared a draft
Decree derogating the Procurement Code to simplify procurement procedures by delegating to a specific
tender board, the Comite Technique d'Attribution des Marches (CTAM) under the MME, all prerogatives
of the national Commission d'Attribution des Marches (CAC) to alleviate the risks of delay in program
implementation. This Decree is limited to STEE and only for the life of the program. During the
assessment of the procurement capacity of the agency, the Bank assessed the relevance and efficiency of
this arrangement, particularly in view of the need for a clear delineation between the contracting agency
and the awarding board. The Government and STEE have confirmed that the Management Contractor
and/or its affiliates will not bid for the provision of goods or works or provide consultancy services under
the project.
14.    Under the proposed arrangement, the STEE would work through the CTAM, headed by the
Director of the Tender Board and comprising five representatives of the MMEP and STEE. STEE
prepares the bidding documents but does not award contracts. Awards are the responsibility of the
CTAM. STEE would have the responsibility to monitor the whole procurement program and the bulk of
the procurement (about 80%) will be handled during the first year.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
15.   A formal procurement assessment of the capacity of STEE has been carried out in accordance
with the Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines dated August 11, 1998. The
assessment outlines the main issues and recommendations and is in the project files.
16.    Action plan to build procurement capacitv. On the basis of the procurement capacity assessment,
an action plan will be finalized and discussed during appraisal for its incorporation into the program, to
build the immediate and the long-term capacity of the STEE to administer procurement needed by the
program. Based on these recommendations, the following action plan was agreed with the Borrower: (i)
preparing an acceptable procurement plan, and regular further update of such plan, to reduce risks of
extension of project duration; (ii) developing a Bank-Government dialogue to adapt institutional rules
and practices as necessary to reduce risks of lack of transparency; (iii) setting up a. procurement
monitoring system, with adequate material resources and staffed with qualified and motivated
professionals to reduce risks of low-quality bid documents requiring iterative revisions; (iv) providing
external technical assistance as necessary; and (v) ensuring proper technical and financial audits of the
procurement procedures and contract management.
17.   Risk rating. Considering the immediate action plan to upgrade its capacity to the level required
by program, STEE falls in the average-risk zone.
- 65 -



18.   Threshold for prior reviews. Based on the above-mentioned risk rating and past experience with
projects in Chad and other countries, the thresholds for prior review have been set up as shown in Table
B. The post-review will apply to at least 15% contracts not subject to prior review.
Procurement Plan (PP)
19.   STEE has prepared a draft detailed procurement plan for the two-year program, showing the
step-by-step procedures for procurement, contract packages for goods, works, and consultant services,
and the estimated costs for each package, procurement/selection method, and the activities which follow
procurement until completion. The final version of the PP, acceptable to the Bank, will be submitted as
part of the PIP as a condition of credit effectiveness. Every semester, STEE will submit to IDA for its
no-objection, an updated version of the PP with the actual procurement activities for the past month and
revisions of the plan for the following months.
Manual of Procedures
20.    STEE will develop a Manual of Procedures (MP) before negotiations. The MP will include a
specific procurement section, specific responsibilities for commitment and implementation, and identify
the risks that need to be mitigated. The modules of the MP will be reviewed before negotiations and the
Bank's conunents provided to the Borrower. Submission of the final version of the MP as part of the PIP
is a condition of credit. effectiveness.
21.    Civil Works Contracts (total equivalent to US$5.3 million) include the: (i) rehabilitation of
thermal facilities in NDjamena and in secondary centers; (ii) repair, maintenance, and extension of
electricity and water supply distribution networks; (iii) rehabilitation of the public street lighting in
NTjamena; (iv) expansion of new wells in NDjamena and rehabilitation of water towers; and (v)
rehabilitation of computers.
22.    Contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent will be procured through ICB. A few contracts
below this threshold will be procured through NCB, acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate amount of
US$2.5 million equivalent.
23.    Contracts for Goods (total equivalent to US$37.0 million) will include: (i) the procurement of
a new thermal station (about 20MW) at Farcha near N'Djamena and pumps (including the 25-km
transmission line) and two thermal units (2 x 1.5MW) at Moundou that will be built on a turnkey basis
where the Contractor is responsible for each activity required for completion of the facilities, e.g.,
manufacture, delivery, installation, testing, commissioning, and training; (ii) purchase of spare parts for
the existing thermal units; (iii) equipment for pumping stations and treatment plants; (iv) purchase of
water-purifying chemicals; (v) implementation of measures to reduce electricity and water supply losses;
and (vi) computers, software, and vehicles.
24.    Goods to be financed under the IDA credit will be grouped into packages of at least US$200,000
equivalent to be procured through ICB, in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines. Information
Systems will be procured through ICB on the basis of the Bank's Standard Bidding Document entitled:
Supply and Installation of Information Systems, published in February 1999. Preference for domestically
manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
25.    Contracts for goods and equipment available on the local market at a competitive price, with a
unit value exceeding US$30,000 equivalent and which cannot be grouped together into packages
-66 -



exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and which are unlikely to be of interest to foreign suppliers because of
their small size, will be awarded on the basis of NCB, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA,
up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent.
26.    Small quantities of off-the-shelf goods such as office supplies, consumable materials, and spare
parts considered to be standard items available locally, and which cannot be grouped together into
packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, will be purchased through National Shopping provided that
the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$0.2 million equivalent. National and
International Shopping solicitations will: (a) be issued in writing to at least three reputable suppliers; (b)
include specifications and, if goods are not immediately available, the delivery time; (c) give the
estimated cost, including cost of inland transportation and insurance; (d) be opened at the same time for
evaluation; and (e) in the case of Intemational Shopping, be solicited from at least three suppliers in two
different countries.
27. - The above-mentioned aggregate value limits for NCB and International and National Shopping
are limitative and cannot be exceeded without IDA's prior no-objection. STEE will maintain a tracking
system to alert the Bank when these limits may be exceeded and will ask the Bank for advice beforehand.
28.    Direct contracting (single source) (equivalent to US$4.0 million) will apply for: (i) the
procurement and installation of spare parts necessary to modify four existing Pielstick generators at
STEE for the use of heavy fuel oil, which is 30% cheaper than diesel, -provided that the prices are
reasonable; and (ii) the procurement of specific commercial software for STEE/Vivendi. The required
equipment in both cases is proprietary and obtainable only from one source. Furthermore, the
manufacturer must guarantee the functioning of the generators after their modification.
29.    The aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods are limitative
and cannot be exceeded without IDA's prior no-objection. STEE will maintain a tracking system to
monitor such procurement in order to alert the Bank in a timely manner when this may occur.
30.    The procedures followed, and total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under the project,
will be reviewed after six months of project operations; depending on performance and the results of the
review, the total aggregaie amount may be adjusted downward where necessary. Standard request forms
and establishment of guidelines for conduct of the shopping method (as per the June 9, 2000
Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping") should be prepared and included in the MP).
31.    Contracts for Consultants' Services (total US$2.0 million equivalent) will be for: (a) the
selection of an engineering consultant firm; (b) environmental study; (c) the completion of various
studies, including a tariff study, a waste water and drainage study for N'Djamena and a water supply
Master Plan; and (d) the financial audits of the program.
32.    The standard method of selection will be competition among qualified, firms short-listed on the
basis of replies to a Request for Expression of Interest, based on the Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS). For the financial audit contract (of a standard nature) the Least-Cost Selection will be the
most appropriate method. Professional staff for the implementation unit, that can be provided by
individual consultants (estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract and up to
aggregate amount of US$0.1 million equivalent) will be selected through comparison of their
qualifications for the assignment, on the basis of CVs and references, among those expressing interest in
the assignment or approached directly, in accordance with part V of the Guidelines.
- 67 -



33.    When the estimated amount is greater than US$100,000 equivalent, a Request for Expression of
Interest will be published in a national newspaper and in the UNDB. Short lists of consultants for
contracts estimated under US$50,000 equivalent may comprise only national consuitant firms in
accordance with section 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, provided that a sufficient number of qualified
firms (at least three) is available at competitive costs, and that foreign consultants who have expressed
interest are not excluded.
IDA Reviews (Table B)
34.    Civil works contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$500,000 will be subject to prior review
by IDA. For contracts for works for which there are less than three bidders, -or for any recommendation
not to select the lowest evaluated bid, the award proposal will be submitted to IDA for approval prior to
notification to the winning bidder.
35.    Contracts not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed during project implementation.
In the event of increases in works contracts of more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower must
specify the reasons and request the Bank's no-objection before proceeding with the additional works.
Draft standard bidding document formats for NCB will be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA before
credit effectiveness.
36.    Goods contracts for an amount exceeding the equivalent of US$200,000 will be subject to prior
review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to post review during supervision missions and by
auditors.
37.    Consultants contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent for individuals will be subject to prior review. Terms of Reference for all
contracts, single-source hiring, assignments of a critical nature (as determined by IDA, like the financial
audit), or amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold, will be
subject to prior review. For consultants contracts estimated above US$100,000, opening the financial
envelopes vwil nrot take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
38.    Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
STEE for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions. Emergency procurement for goods
will require prior review by IDA.
39.    The aggregate values for NCB and other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works are
limitative and cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the Bank. STEE will monitor such
procurement in order to alert the Bank in a timely manner when this may occur.
Procurement Supervision
40.    Procurement specialists will supervise the executing agency every six months. During these
missions selective post review (15% of contracts) will be carried out for contracts awarded below the
thresholds.
Action Plan for Strengthening Procurement Capacity
41.    The Govermnent has provided IDA with: (a) a draft procurement plan for the first-year program;
and (b) the draft Manual of Procedures for the program, including the section on procurement and the
- 68 -



section on accounting and finance, and detailed job descriptions and terms of reference and perfornance
requirements of the accounting and procurement staff. The Government: (a) will use the Manual of
Procedures and all its specific sections, (b) will use the Bank's sample bidding documents for
international competitive bidding, the standard Request for Proposals for Consultants, and the standard
bid evaluation reports; and (c) will conduct a review of the bidding procedures after one year in the
course of the annual review conducted with IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method    -
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           3.85            1.38          0.00         0.00        5.23
(3.85)          (1.07)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (4.92)
2. Goods                           42.57            1.00         0.00         0.00       43.57
(42.26)         (0.80)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (43.06)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          4.94         0.00        4.94
(0.00)          (0.00)       (4.85)        (0.00)     (4.85)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
5. PPF                              0.00           0.00          2.00         0.00        2.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)     (2.00)
Total                           46.42            2.38         6.94          0.00       55.74
(46.11)         (1.87)        (6.85)       (0.00)      (54.83)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to: (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 69 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   OBS     SFB     LCS      CO     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              5.00    0.00     0.00   0.50     0.00    0.00    0.00     5.50
(5.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.45)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (5.45)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.10    0.00     0.10
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.09)  (0.00)   (0.09)
Total  5.00    0.00    0.00    0.50     0.00    0.10    0.00     5.60
(5.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.45)  (0.00)   (0.09)  (0.00)   (5.54)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 70 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works
> 500                   ICB                     All
< 500                  NCB                  Post Review
2. Goods
>200                   ICB                     All
<200                   NCB                 First Contract
<030                  Shopping              Post Review
_Direct Contracting           All
3. Services
Firms
a) General                     >100                   QCBS                    All
<100                 QCBS/SS           SS: All; Others: Post R.
b) Audit                       <050                    LCS                    All
Individuals                    >050                   3 CVs                   All
<050                  3 CVs                Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$48 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 71 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Manazement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1.    Assessment of Project Financial Management. A formal financial assessment of STEE was
carried out in June, 2002. STEE has an established finance and accounting department that is capable of
producing accounts and financial information in a timely fashion. However, there are some deficiencies
that can be quickly addressed. Given the "emergency" nature of this operation, the following action plan
was agreed to by the Bank with the Government, STEE and the private operator (Vivendi): (i) a Director
of Finance would be recruited by STEE in August, 2002; (ii) a full-time expatriate would be hired to
oversee the accounting and finance function for at least the first year of the project operation; (iii) the
accounting staff of STEE will be provided with training under the project to improve their skills; (iv)
monthly financial reports will be produced regularly and submitted to Vivendi France, and adaptations
will be made to produce the FMR quarterly for Bank purposes; (v) the financial accounts of STEE and
the project will be audited annually by an external auditor acceptable to the Bank, and (vi) internal
financial auditors from Vivendi France will perform regular reviews of Vivendi Chad's operations and
their reports will be available to the Bank. Improvements in the project accounting system will include
the following: (a) submission of a project's accounting procedures mnanual acceptable to IDA; (b)
upgrading of current accounting software and integration of the accounts receivable with the general
accounts.The following was agreed as conditions of effectiveness (a) finalization of a project accounting
system acceptable to the Bank; (b) submission of a satisfactory audit report of STEE for year ended
December 31, 2001; (c) appointment of a project external auditor acceptable to the Bank.
2. Audit Arrangements
2.     STEE/Vivendi will have an adequate financial management system and acceptable financial
management policies and procedures by Credit effectiveness to manage all the project components,
including the activities implemented by the MME. On behalf of STEE and MME, STEE will: (a)
establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA, adequate accounts and records, including separate
accounts, records, and reports for the project; (b) engage independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit
their accounts, the project accounts, and the financial statements, in accordance with intemationally
acceptable auditing standards and in such detail as IDA may request; and (c) undertake audits annually
and submit these reports to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. STEE's accounts
were last certified by an extemal auditor in 1997.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
3.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds: The estimated annual disbursement schedule is shown in the
Project Financing Data on page 1. Table C below provides the allocation of Credit Proceeds by main
Expenditure Category. Disbursements are expected to be completed in a period of two and half years,
October 2002 to March 2005. The project expected completion date is September 30, 2004 and the
expected Credit Closing date March 31, 2005.
- 72 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
Works for components A. l, A.2&          4.92           100% of foreign expenditures;
Bi                                                     80% of local expenditures
Goods for components                    38.13           100% of foreign expenditures;
A. l ,A.2,A.3,A.4,B. 1 ,B.2,B.3,C. 1,C.                 80% of local expenditures
3 andC.4 CA
Consultants services and audits          4.85           100% of foreign expenditures;
A. 1,A.2,A.5,B. 1,B.3,C. 1,C.2,C.4,D.                   82% of local expenditures
1 and D.2
Operating Costs                           .13           80% of expenditures
Unallocated                              4.80
Refunding of Project Preparation         2.00
Advance
Total Credit Amount                     54.83
4.     Retroactive Financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 400,000 of the proposed IDA
Credit would be provided for expenditures incurred after January 1, 2002 and prior to effectiveness of the
proposed credit in connection with the preparation of the technical specifications and the bidding
documentation for the thermal plants for N'Djamena, the preparation of the environmental audit and of
the environmental management plan, the accounting and financial audits of STEE, and expert services
needed for project preparation and project effectiveness. These expenses were and will be financed by
STEE.
5.    Use of Statement of Expenses. All application to withdraw proceeds from the Credit Account
will be fully documented except for expenditures against contracts for: (a) goods estimated to cost less
than $200,000 each; (b) works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent each; (d) consulting firmns
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 each, which will be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documents
supporting SOEs would be retained by the Private Operator managing Chad's Electricity and Water
sectors, responsible for project accounting and financial management, and will be available for review
upon request by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
6.    Special Account To facilitate the program implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, STEE's Private Operator will establish a Special Account (SA) in FCFA in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the SA will be FCFA 300
million and will cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will
deposit an amount of FCFA 150 million in the SA, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation of
the SA. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments issued amount to the
equivalent of SDR 10 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments in an amount below
20% of the initial deposit to the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly.
Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     6                            7
First Bank mission (Identification)            01/15/2002                   01/15/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    04/15/2002                   07/01/2002
Negotiations                                   04/30/2002                   08/09/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/30/2002                   10/31/2002
Prepared by:
(a) Government of Chad and its consultants, Lahmeyer of Germany
(b) STEE
(c) Vivendi-Dietsmann
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Michel Layec                      Task Team Leader
Ignatius Menezes                  Consultant
Robert Robelus                    Sr. Environmental Assessment Specialist
Nicholas Kotschoubey              Environmental Specialist
Kristine Ivarsdotter              Sr. Social Development Specialist
Yao Badjo                         Sr. Sanitary Engineer
Damnipi Noupokou                  Electrical Engineer
Luc Lapointe                      Procurement Specialist
Bertrand de Chazal                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Jacques Corbin                    Financial Analyst
Jean-Pierre Charpentier           Pear Reviewer
Dawit Yohannes                    Language Team Assistant
Fridolin Ondobo                   Financial Management Specialist
Charles de Daruvar                Legal Department
Muthoni Kaniaru                   Legal Department
AgnesAlbert-Loth                  Disbursements
Luc Lecuit                        Country Department
Hans Wabnitz                      Legal Department
Pascale Dubois                    Legal Department
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Vivendi-Dietsmann - Project Implementation Plan (May 2002).
Ministry of Mines, Energy, and Petroleum - Project Implementation Plan (May 2002).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to-Office reports of: D.Nopokou, Y. Badjo, F. Ondobo, B. De Chazal, R. Robelus, L. Lapointe, N.
Kotschoubey.
C. Other
*     Republic of Chad, STEE, Vivendi-Dietsmann contractual agreements (February 2000).
*     Detailed list of activities prepared by Vivendi-Dietsmann (April 2002).
*     Arrete setting up the Project Monitoring and Oversight Committee -CTSPU-(Cellule Technique
d'Appui au Programme d' Urgence         (April 2002).
*     Environmental Impact Assessment (April 2002).
*     Resettlement Action Plan (June 2002).
*     STEE 1 0-year financial scenario prepared by Vivendi-Dietsmann (April 2002).
*     Lahmeyer Study (December 1998).
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                       Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frrn Revld
P072226       2002 Second Populaton and AIDS Project             0.00     24.56                         0.00     24.56      -1.33     0.00
P035672       2001 NaLTrEnspPogramn Support Prjed                0.00     67.00                         0.00     58.86     14.22      0.00
P062840       2000 MANAGEMENTOFTHEPETROLEUMECONOMY               0.00     17.50                         0.00     13.00      5.19      0.00
P044305       2000 TD/CM PIPELUNE                               39.50      0.00                         0.00     30.30      5.09      0.00
P048202       2000 TO CAP.BUDG PETROLEUM                         0.00     23.70                         0.00     17.68     13.27      0.00
P055122       2000 HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                 0.00     41.51                          0.00    34.66     17.73      0.00
P000532       1996 TD HOUSEHCLD ENERGY                           0.00      5.30                          0.00     1.93      1.86      0.00
Po00501       1995 AG SERVICES                                   0.00     24.50                          0.00     0.32      1.66      1.67
Total:      39.50    204.07                         0.00     181.31     57.68      1.87
CHAD
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval              Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan     Equity     Quasi      Parfic
2000                     TOTCO                                13.90      0.00       0.00     13.90      4.70      0.00       0.00      4.70
Total Portfolio:              13.90       0.00      0.00      13.90       4.70      0.00       0.00      4.70
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                  Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
2000                    SEF Demba'lait                            0.33        0.00         0.00        0.00
2002                    Finadev Tchad                             0.28        0.00         0.14        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                 0.61        0.00         0.14        0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Chad      Africa   Income      Development diamond
2000
Populaton, mid-year (millions)                          7.7       659     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      200       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                        1.5       313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (IX)                                         2.9        2.6       19
Labor force (I%)                                        2.9        2.6       2.4     GNI                              Gross
per              _              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaliable, 1994-00)                                capita         '     /       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    64
Urban population (% oftote!population)                   24        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         48        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 99        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               40                               Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)     24        55        76
Illiteracy (X of population age I5+)                     57        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)     58        78        96       -Chad             Low-income group
Maie                                                   76        85       102
Female                                                40         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                             1.0      1.7        1.6       1.4
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                          15.9       12.6      17.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             16.9     13.5       14.8      15.9
Gross domestic savingslGDP                              1.5       -2.2       1.6
Gross national savings/GDP                              6.5       -1.3       3.3
Current account balance/GDP                   -1.5    -10.3      -14.0     -13.8     Domestic                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP                          0.0      0.2        1.0               savings
Total debt/GDP                                27.5     30.1       73.4      79.8     svn
Total debt service/exports                     8.4      5.1       12.4      10.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                         42.2
Present value of debtlexports                                    251.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040       1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  6.1       2.2      1.0        0.6      15.3             Chad        Low-income group
GDP per capita                       3.4      -0.8     -1.7       -2.1       6.4
Exports of goods and services        6.5       1.2    -16.0        3.9      15.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                             266
Agriculture                                   45.1     29.3       36.0      37. a    s
Industry                                       8.9     17.7                 13.3     so
Manufacturing                                  -      144       11.8      107
Services                                      46.0     53.0       49.3      49.1
Private consumpbon                                     88.6       93.9      89.6    -so
General govemment consumptbon                          10.0        8.3       8.8               -     GD1       O  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 28.9     27.9       29.6      31.3
1980-90  199040        1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.3      4.5       -6.5       57             _
Industry                                      8.1       0.8      -4.1       -8.6     as
Manufacturing                                                   -7.0      -8.6
Servicas                                      6.7       1.0        5.1       0.5            uls         9    ,        s   o
Private consumption                           3.5       1.3       0.0        0.8
General govemment consumptlon                 16.5     -1.5       12.2      10.7    .30
Gross domestic investment                    25.1      -2.9      -36.0      46.8                  Exports        lmports
Imports of goods and services                 9.9      -3.9       -8.5       8.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 77 -



Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dornesfitprfrs ~1980                               1990      1999     2000      Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                      r0
Consumer prices                                      0.6      4.4       3.7
Implicit GDP deflator                       8.7      8.0      -4.6      3.5
Govemnrnent flnance
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                                I    95    se    97    8
Current revenue                                      6.7       8.3      8.1
Current budget balance                       ..     -3.4      -0.9     -2.0           -   GDP dIeflator  -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -15.7     -10.4    -12.4
TRADE
rUss milions)                              1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..     194       188       181    soo
Cotton                                      ..      99        76                 . 
Meat                                         ,      53        54              40
Manufactures                                         2        29              30
Total Imports (cif)                                 359       246       243     200
Food                                                18         4
Fuel and energy                                     37        24       28     100
Capital goods                                       88       154               o
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                    ..    107       105       110         94   95   9o   97   98    99   on
Import prke Index (1995=100)                  ..     96        86        92                * Exports    EImnports
Termsofbrade(1995=100)                       ,.     111        122      119
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                71     234       242       233      0
Imports of goods and services                80     499       474       450
Resource balance                             -8    -264       -232     -217
Net income                                   -4      -18       -14      -10
Net current transfers                        -4     104        28      34.0         *1111111
Current account balanrce                    -16     -178      -219     -193     -10
Financirig items (net)                       11     181       185       180
Changes in net reserves                       5       -3       33        13    -1S
Menmo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)       ..       ..      150        95
Conversion rate (DEC, iocalNUSS)          211.3    272.3     614.8    713.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millins)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        284     524      1,142    1,115
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0                 F:15 G:29
IDA                                        36     186       527       514            E: 154
Total debt service                            6       12       32        26
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0
'IDA                                         0       2         8        8                                       4
B : 514
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            22     147        61
Official creditors                          3     101        71        18         D:325
Private creditors                           0       -1       -1        -1
Foreign direct investment                   0       0        15
Portfolio equity                            0       0         0                                C: 78
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0      25        30       189     A-IBRD                     E - Biateral
Disbursements                               0      48        53        18     B-IDA    D-Otharrmuntlateral  F-PrPmate
Principal repayments                        0       1         5         4     C - IMF                   G - Short-lerm
Net fiows                                   0      48        48        13
Interest payments                           0       1         3         3
Net transfers                               0      46        45        10
Development Economics                                                                                           9/21/01
-78 -



Additional Annex 11: CURRENT SITUATION AND INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
IN THE ELECTRICITY AND WATER SECTORS
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. The Electricity Sector
Overview
1.     Chad's power sector is characterized by high tariffs and limited access to electricity services,
which are unreliable and of poor quality (including very frequent interruptions and load shedding). Over
the last 20 years, the public utility entrusted with the provision of electricity and water supply services
(STEE-Soci&t6 Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite) has not been able to develop these two sectors;
investment and maintenance have been sorely lacking. The very limnited facilities are old and inefficient
and have not been adequately maintained. In spite of having the highest electricity tariffs in the region
(about US$0.25/kWh), the electricity sector is financially bankrupt, partly because of high fuel costs,
high technical and non-technical losses estimated at about 30% of generation, but also because of
obsolete facilities and inefficient management.
2.     Electricity generation depends entirely on thermal units as hydro-resources and interconnections
with other countries are not available. The petroleum products are imported and transported over long
distances from Nigeria and Cameroon. Because Chad is land-locked, the cost of oil in the capital of
N'Djamena is currently over US$65/barrel compared to the international price of US$25/barrel.
Key Data
3.     Key data on the production and distribution of electricity in the sone of main urban centers of
Chad in 2001 is as follows:
Electricity Sector - Key Data (2001)
Center_| N'Djamena                                   Moundou      Sarh     Abeche
Population                               772000       145000      11000     79000
0
Available Capacity (MW)                     16.3         1.0       2.75      .275
Age of Operating Generating Units (years)    25           26         18        16
Peak Demand (MW)                         16.3 (1)        .95        1.5      .260
Energy Produced (GWh)                      101.9         4.9        5.3       1.55
Energy Sold (GWh)                          84.1          4.6        5.2       1.48
Number of Customers                      16 400         N/A        N/A        N/A
Access Rate (%)                              14         N/A        N/A        N/A
Average Specific Consumption of Generating  239.2      294.6      285.6      294.9
Units (g/kWh) (2)
Average Tariff (FCFA/kWh)            185          185        185       185
(1) In October 2001 reflecting available capacity. The unconstrained peak demand in N'Djamena in 2001 is
estimated at 23 MW.
(2) All generating units used imported diesel oil.
79 -



Generation for N'Diamena.
4.     Existing generation in NlDjamena is provided by 16 small thermal units that are mostly very old
(between 20 to 35 years), inefficient, and unreliable, with access to spare parts a constant problem. While
the total installed capacity is 36.5 MW in 2001, the available capacity is only 16.9 MW. The following
table provides key information on N'Djamena's generating units.
Generation - N'Djamena
Unit                    Nominal      Age (Years)     Number of       Available
Capacity                      Hours of       Capacity
(kW)                       Operations        (MW)
Gl                         3.6           1967          113,140          2.5
G3                         2.8           1972          160,549           1.8
G4                         4.2           1972          170,077           3
G5                         4.2           1965          161,658           3
G6                         4.4           1985          86,363            3
G8                         2.4           1999          4,500             2
G9                         2.2           2000           8,177            1.5
GIO                        1.6           2001           5,324            1
GIl                        1.6           2001           5,663             1
G12                        1.6           2001           3,124             1
GMI                        1.6           1979          48,903            .8
GM2                        1.6           1979           N/A              0
GM3                        2.4           2001           3,470            2
GBI                        .75           1999          10,583            .6
GB2                        .75           1999           7,250            .6
GB3                        .75           1999          10,116            .6
TOTAL/AVERAGE             36.45                                         16.9
Electricity Tariffs.
5.     Chad's average electricity tariff of about US$0.25/kWh'(FCFA 185/kWh) is among the highest
in the world and about two to three times higher than in the sub-region (see table below). This reflects in
part the high delivered costs of petroleum products (see para. 2) but also the inefficiencies at the
generation and distribution levels. These issues will be addressed through this project and the second
phase of the investment program.
Comparison of Electricity Tariffs (2001)
Country                      Average Electicdty Tariff (USC/kWb)  Low Voltage Tariff
(USC/kWh
Chad                                   23                          25
Cote d'lvoire                           5                          6
Cameroon (1)                            6                          8
Nigeria                                 6                          8
CAR                                    16                          18
Congo-Bazzaville                        9                          ID
Gabon                                   7                          8
Niger                                  I0                          II
Senegal                                10            .             8
(I) Exclude tariff to aluminiumn compay.
-80 -



Electricity Demand in N'Diamena
6.     Peak electricity consumption in Chad in 2001 was less than 25 MW, of which about 20 MW was
provided in N'Djamena and the remainder in six smaller urban centers (Moundou, Sahr, Abeche, Doba,
Bongor, and Faya-Largeau). There are about 16,400 electricity customers in a country of 7 million
persons, so that only between 1% to 1.5% of Chad's population benefits from electricity services. About
12,000 of these clients are located in NDjamena where the access rate is about 14%. Such a low access
rate is due to: (a) lack of investment in generation and distribution over the last 20 years which has
constrained the development of demand; (b) high costs of the electricity services ( the tariff is about
US$0.25/kWh and the connection charge about $300-$400 per client); and (c) poor quality and unreliable
services.
7.     Over the next 10 years, it is expected that electricity consumption in N'Djamena would increase
significantly from about 71 gWh in 2001 to about 160 gWh in 2011, which corresponds to an average
yearly growth of 9%. This increase in demand would be attributable to: (a) the arrival of oil revenues, as
crude oil exports should start in early 2004; (b) investment in electricity generation and distribution; (c)
significant decreases in electricity tariffs, as cheaper petroleum products would be available for the
electricity sector, and in connection costs; and (d) imnproved quality of services. Reduction in technical
and non-technical losses should however allow for a relatively slower growth in generation needs; peak
generation should increase from 20.3 MW in 2001 to 36 MW in 2011, an average increase of 6% a year.
By 2011, installed nominal capacity in N'Djamena would be about 70 MW (50 MW net).
Electricity Demand in the Other Main Urban Centers
8.     Electricity demand in the urban centers of Moundou, Sarh, and Doba, located in the petroleum
production area, is expected to grow faster than in the rest of the country.
The Investment Program (2002-2007)
9.     Chad has developed an investment program for the electricity sector that will be implemented in
two phases over a five-year period. The first phase (October 2002-September 2004), covered by the
project, would be a rehabilitation and consolidation phase with very limited expansion of electricity
services, The second phase (October 2004-September 2007) should be a development phase during
which access to electricity services should increase significantly.
10.   First Phase of the Investment Proaram (implemented over the October 2002-September
2004 period). The First Phase of the investment program will consist of the rehabilitation of existing
facilities with the main objectives of: (a) maintaining the current level of electricity services; (b)
improving the quality of services, while (c) reducing operating costs, particularly by reducing the costs of
petroleum products, increasing the efficiency of generating units, and upgrading critical management
systems that would allow the utility to achieve technical and financial viability. The investments to be
made during this phase are included in the proposed project (see detailed project description in Annex 2).
The following two tables that show the investments for the electricity sector and for the utility.
- 81 -



First Phase Investments for the Electricity Sector
Sub-Component                    Project Costs    Project Costs
(Millions FCFA)  (in US $ '000)
1    New Generation and Rehabilitation of N'Djamena's      15,560           21,028
Generating Units and Commissioning of three diesel units
(20 MW) at the Farcha industrial area.
2   New Generation and Rehabilitation of the Generating Units in  1,526      2,063
Six Smaller Urban Centers.
3    Rehabilitation and Extension of the Distribution Networks of  2,380     3,216
N'Djamnena and the Secondary Centers.
4    Rehabilitation of Public Street Lighting in N'Djamena.  1,218           1,647
S    Creation of an Inventory of Critical Spare Parts and Purchase  1,089    1,472
of Small Equipment and Tools.
6    Project Preparation and Implementation Studies          181               244
______ TOTAL COSTS (excluding contingencies)                  21,955           29,669
All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
11.    During the First Phase, investments will be made in the utility to apply key management systems
and provide the necessary operational equipment. These are listed below.
First Phase Investments for the Utility Management Systems
Sub-Component                    Project Costs (in  Project Costs
Millions FCFA)   (in US$ '000)
3.1   Purchase of Utility Equipment and Commercial Management  1,391          1,880
Information System (hardware and software).
3.2  Private Operator Fees and Costs.                       1,186             1,603
3.3  Purchase of Petroleum and Chemical Products.           3,301            4,461
3.4  Implementation of Environmental Protection Measures and  736              995
Purchase of Safety and Communication Equipment.
3.5  Project Preparation and Implementation Studies and Capacity  185          251
Building
TOTAL                                                  6,800            9,189
All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$1=740 FCFA
12.    Additional Generation for N'Diamena As shown in Table 1, over the next 10 years and for the
base case scenario, investment in new generation capacity of about 70 MW would depend on demand
growth, the effectiveness of the loss reduction program, and the condition of older units. New capacity
for N'Djamena will be built in tranches, as follows: (a) commissioning in 2003 of 20 MW of diesel units
(3 units of 6.5 MW each) operating on liquid fuels (crude oil, heavy fuel or diesel oil) and providing 15
MW net; (b) commissioning in 2005 of a second tranche of 20 MW of gas turbines using Sedigi's
associated gas or other gas; (c) commissioning in 2007 of another tranche of 20 MW; and (d)
commissioning of another tranche in 2011.
13.    The Sedigi Proiect. To combat high fuel costs and deteriorating reliability of electricity
services, the Government's strategy since the early 1990s has consisted of developing a small
hydrocarbon field (about 20 million barrels) located north of Lake Chad at Sedigi (see map), transporting
- 82 -



the oil via a 6" 340-350-km pipeline to N'Djamena, processing it in a mini-refinery (3,000 barrels per
day-bpd) and using the residual oil (about 600 bpd) to fuel a new thermal plant to be built in N'Djamena.
Although work on this project commenced in 1990, with financing from an engineering credit provided
by IDA (credit 2184-CD), the project is still not completed. Project implementation has been delayed for
several reasons, including: (a) political tensions, civil strife, and a deteriorating macroeconomic situation
in the country; (b) delays in coming to a closure on the agreement relating to the large oil fields (Doba) in
southem Chad; (c) questions raised about the economic and commercial risks of the project, including
the level of reserves, design, size of the investment, and operating costs; (d) questions raised about the
Government's ability to implement and operate the project; and (e) questions raised about the use of the
associated gas which the Government was planning to flare.
14.   Most of these issues are now resolved. The authorities are presently negotiating with foreign
private sector investors, to finance, construct, and operate the refinery, and to take over the management
and operation of the Sedigi oil production and oil pipeline facilities. Current plans call for the refinery
and all related facilities, including the pipeline, to become operational by January 2004. If these plans
materialize, the new 20 MW power generating plants to be financed under this project will be using all
the heavy fuel oil produced by the refinery and will be producing electricity at much lower costs. In the
second phase, the Government would like to utilize the gas associated with the Sedigi oil for power
generation and other uses, instead of flaring it, including its use as a commercial and industrial fuel for
activities such as brick making. Present plans call for a 4" gas pipeline to be built by January 2005, with
the possible assistance of GEF and other donors.
15.    Second Phase of the Investment Proaram (2004-2007). The Second Phase of the investment
program, to be carried out during the September 2004 - August 2007 period, will cover the extension of
electricity supply to the urban centers currently benefiting from STEE's services and to other centers
currently not being serviced. Starting 2004, the electricity tariffs could begin to be reduced as the Sedigi
project becomes operational. The main components of the Second Phase investment program for
N'Djamena, the other urban centers, and the rural areas are:
* Additional generating units for N'Djamena, using the associated gas from the Sedigi oil field and
possibly interconnections with Cameroon in southern Chad;
* Commissioning of a gas pipeline between Sedigi and N'Djamena;
* Extension of the distribution systems in the urban centers already electrified;
*  Implementation of the rural electrification program, using renewable sources of energy, such as solar
energy; and
* Capacity building.
B.   The Water Supply Sector
Current Situation
16.   As for the electricity sector, Chad's water supply facilities are old and have been poorly
maintained. Only about 30% of the urban population and 26% of the rural population has access to safe
water. In the water supply sector, STEE provides N'Djamena with water from wells that tap an
underground spring some 60 m deep. It supplies 25,000 m3 of water/day through 15, 000 connections,
when actual demand is for over 35,000 m3/day. There are also some 280 public water fountains, each
serving about 500 persons. The access rate is estimated to be about 48 % in N'Djamena and the price is
FCFA 170/m3 or US$0.23/m.3, which is relatively low by regional standards. Out of a total of 21 water
supply wells drilled since 1966, 15 are operating and of these only 5 are operating well. The water supply
-83 -



distribution system consists of 140 kms of pipe laid more than 30 years ago, with losses estimated at
about 35% of production.
The Investment Pro[ram (2002-2007)
17.   The absence of maintenance and the lack of investment to renew the existing installations in the
electricity sector, due to STEE's financial problems, have led to a situation where the delivery of water
services to N'Djamena and the eight urban centers currently serviced by STEE (Moundou, Sarh,
Moussoro, Doba, Mao, Fianga, Bongor, and Abeche) cannot be sustained; it will likely collapse if
rehabilitation and new investment are not implemented quickly. Furthermore, water loses are estimated at
35% of production.
18.    Chad has developed an investment program for the water supply sector that will be implemented
in two phases over a six-year period. The first phase (October 2002-September 2004), covered by the
project, would be a rehabilitation and consolidation phase with very limited expansion of the water
supply services. The resources available would be used to maintain the delivery of water services in the
N'Djamena and in the eight centers served by STEE. The second phase (October 2004-September 2007)
would be a development phase during which access to water supply services would increase
significantly.
19.    First Phase of the Investment Program (implemented over the October 2002-September
2004 period). The First Phase of the investment programn will cover the rehabilitation of existing
facilities with the main objectives of: (a) maintaining the current level of water supply services; (b)
improving the quality of services; and (c) reducing operating costs. The investments to be implemented
during this phase and included in the proposed project, are listed in the following table:
First Phase Investments for the Water Supply Sector
Sub-Component                  Project Costs  Project Costs
(in Millions  (in US $ '000)
_____                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~FCFA)_ _ _ _ _ _
2.1  Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water Supply Facilities  2,558  3,457
of N'Djamena.
2.2  Rehabilitation and Extension of the Water Supply Facilities in  2,664  3,599
Eight Smaller Urban Centers.                                  I _
2.3  Project Preparation and Implementation Studies        284          383
TOTAL                                               5,505         7,439
All costs exclude taxes, duties and contingencies; US$ 1 =740 FCFA
20.    Second Phase of the Investment Program (2004-2007) The Second Phase of the investment
program, to be carried out during the October 2004 - September 2007 period will cover the extension of
water supply services to the urban centers currently benefiting from STEE's services and to other centers
currently not served.
-84 -



N'Djamena - Electricity Generation Plan (2002-2011) Table 1
TOI-e1Aml 1
y.                                    21)1  12W 2W  Zll 23X 2W6   B  2S Z09 2010 211
Ss3Idy@(iN                            61S  71.0 718 117 El5 914 1C51 1115 m6 131.8 141.7
9                                         11.01 4016 ao06 1t01 9016 90a6 a86 a80  7.56 745
Tdd e4>os                              30   30  28  24   20  16   12  10   10  10   10
Lood Faw                                051 as      O-  OM     OU Ga  a2  OM  0Q  Q2 OM
Rb#Dat  -Gad-on(NMN                   a3 MM 97q 2111i6 212 MMal Si2 27M4 MM9 3211B 34Si
PaImidGAi(hW                             1186 -a086 2316 54% 38% 4o1 5816 a80  73,o 7B5
tE BxSIIDGe      5 LNm(NErhw)
Uilt  G1                         155       25   25  25                                NleI
G3                         1912  1.8  1.8  1.8                                   N
(A                         1912   3    3   3    3   3    3                       R#Ek
CB                         16    A    3   3    3   .3   3                       Rb*
6                           %1  3    3   3    3   3    0 
GB   Ca                  h19      A    2   2    2                                N
(C   C      d   aW      h1        S   t15  1.5  1.5                              NY"de
Gt1                       2ZD1    1    1   1    1                                TradwtrdsIwUtbr,0ns
G11                        201    1    1   1    1                                TrisbfSrUbnaas
G12                        2;D    1    1   1    1                                TrasrtoSIrUbEnOrIs
GA                          1919  08  a8                                         I\Ww
012                        19191
C1M  OdpQ4   ,Ld$j dw   h2OD      2    2   2    2                               TD3TbaLe     Bi011B3tTb e
tB1                        19B   06
02                         1W   06   16                                         TrtSrrdkrUkOtrs
G33                         I9   06   06  Q6                                    T    rtnSrUbn3tEs
IA-EDsnNSlFERPLRANr           169  2S8 224   3    98  6
2 NdKV2RAVIFA     ( IErMN)
-RdThadu20MMSD                            15   15  15   15   15  15   15  15   15Traded15MKNr
-SrdTd2D3MNVD)                                     15   15   15  15   15  15   15Traed15MNre
-TthidThich2DKMMS)                                           15  15   15  15   2DTratied15MNne
TC1G7LN3NA\EI)                         15   15   30  3)   45  45   45  45   S3
1QRJWEEDa     (WV)                   143   1a7 M1 255     9   26 a3 s3     35   35 40
41\(4)a'CSIT)(hW                      ao   3.9 36D 247 472   07s a77 7.   5(8  263 544
1-UtsM, GEII "daM =rdmtlq Fe~ cmuthWVW     f2n        85 -
- 85 -



Additional Annex 12: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Description
1.    The proposed project provides for the rehabilitation of the electricity and water supply services
in NDjamena and in some secondary urban centers of Chad. In order to rehabilitate the electricity and
water service, the project will implement the following major components: (i) new diesel units (three
units totaling 20 MW of installed capacity ) to be located at a new site (the Farcha industrial zone) on the
outskirts of the capital city of N'Djamena; (ii) rehabilitation of the thermal power generating and
distribution facilities in NDjamena and in some secondary centers; and (iii) rehabilitation of the water
production and distribution facilities in NDjamena and selected secondary urban centers.
Overview
2.     The Environmental Assessment (EA) and the Environmental Management Plan focus on the
environmental and social impacts directly related to the implementation of the activities included in the
project. The project corresponds to the first phase of the investment program -the rehabilitation phase of
the existing facilities- prepared by the Government for the electricity and water sectors. A second phase -
the development phase- will focus on the development of the electricity and water supply services in
Chad leading to a significant increase in the access to these services. In the context of the preparation of
the second phase, a full environmental and a strategic assessment will be carried out.
STEE's Commitment to the Environment
3.     Chad's electricity and water supply services are provided by the Soci&e  Tchadienne d'Eau et
d'Electricite (STEE) with the assistance of a management contractor contracted under a 20-year contract.
STEE will implement all the physical activities included in the project. In conjunction with the
Government, the utility and the management contractor are committed to implementing the project in a
manner that balances consistently and responsibly the safeguarding of the environmental and social
features of Chad with the developmental, poverty alleviation, and operational benefits of the project.
With this philosophy and approach, STEE and its operator will ensure benefits to the stakeholders in the
country, region, and localities within which the project operates.
Policy, Regulatory, and Legislative Requirements
4.     The project has been designed and will be implemented and operated in compliance with
applicable regulatory and legislative requirements, including those of the Government of Chad and of the
World Bank.
Government of Chad
5.     The Government approved the Environment and Social Assessment and Management Plan
including the Resettlement Action Plan. The Ministry of Environment and Water, which advises the
Government on environmental and social issues, has reviewed and commented on the draft of the
Environmental and Social Assessment and Management Plan. Its comments have been taken into
consideration in the final version transmitted to the World Bank on June 26, 2002.
- 86 -



World Bank Safeguard Policies
6.    IDA's environmental and social reviews are guided by a hierarchy of requirements that include:
(a) environmental and social 'safeguard' policies; (b) specific guidelines developed primarily for the
industrial sector; and (c) other guidelines and reference documents. The project has been classified by
IDA as a category B project. As a result, a full Environmental and Social assessment has been conducted
as required under World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment. World Bank
Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) apply also to the project as 20 families (131
persons) illegally settled on the site allocated to STEE at Farcha. A Resettlement Action Plan has been
developed in compliance with the relevant World Bank Operational Policy. In addition, STEE and its
management contractor ensured that public consultation was carried out with a wide range of
stakeholders. Public disclosure of project information has also occurred on regular and ongoing basis.
Public Consultation and Disclosure
7.     Consultations on the project were conducted from March 11 to 21, 2002. Several meetings were
held in N'Djamena, Moundou, and Doba with the civil society, including representatives of
Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs), public administration, students, traditional village chiefs, and
religious leaders. As a result of these consultations it was decided to: (i) establish an environmental
monitoring commnittee; and (ii) develop a public information/communication Plan.
Alternatives Considered
8.     Chad has no hydro-power resources and has to depend entirely on thermal power generation.
Importing electricity from Cameroon and Nigeria was studied, but was found to be uneconomical and
solar resources have not yet been tapped for power generation. Domestic oil production is likely to start
only in early 2004 in southem Chad (600 krns from N'Djamena) but this oil is not suitable for power
generation. For the next two to three years Chad will have to continue importing fuel from neighboring
Nigeria and Cameroon. Starting in 2004, electricity generating units in Chad could start using locally
refined petroleum products as the Sedigi crude oil reserves could be brought on line. In 2005, the Sedigi
associated gas could be also used for electricity generation. The existing thermal facilities are located in
the middle of N'Djamena but will gradually be replaced by new facilities to be sited at Farcha, the
industrial zone on the outskirts of N'Djamena, and about 2 kms from the main river.
Environmental and Social Studies
9.     STEE and its Management Contracttor hired an environmental consulting company to carry out
the EA and prepare a Management Plan in accordance with the relevant World Bank policy. An
abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan for the 20 families that are illegally occupying a part of the STEE
site at (Farcha) was also prepared in accordance with the Involuntary Resettlement Policy.
10.   The main risks identified by the EA with respect to the existing facilities were as follows:
(a) Soil pollution from petroleum products used by STEE;
(b) Air pollution from generating units emissions;
(c) Water pollution from water used to cool the generators;
(d) Noise pollution largely because of the age of the generators at the existing N'Djamena
plant;
(e) Oil trucks-traffic and parking;
(f) Difficult access to the facilities for fire emergency vehicles and ambulances; and
- 87 -



(g) Relatively easy access to the facilities, particularly the generating facilities, by non-STEE
personnel.
11.   In order to mitigate the issues and reduce the risks, the following actions are recommended in the
short run:
(a) Training of personnel in matters relating to security, including fighting fires;
(b) Updating of the Evacuation plan;
(c) Establishing procedures with local emergency authorities;
(d) Monitoring waste water that can end up in the Chari river;
(e) Monitoring air emissions at the N'Djamena existing power plant;
(f) Improving "retention" for the storage of diesel oil and for other hydrocarbon products
and residues;
(g) Creating a zone for storage of petroleum products;
(h) Creating a storage zone for resident petroleum products; and
(i) Enclosing STEE's existing NDIjamena power plant to prevent easy access to the facilities.
12.   With regard to the new thermal units to be located at Farcha, the EA has outlined the impacts the
plant will have on the environment, which include gas emissions, waste water, solid wastes, noise, and
used materials. It had set the enviromnental standards that the new plant will have to meet to be in line
with World Bank Guidelines. It has also recommnended several enviromnental management actions both
during construction and operation of the, facilities, which include worker health and safety, treatment of
waste, emergency preparedness and response plan, training, and appropriate operating procedures. The
enviromnental standards will be included in the bidding documentation submitted by STEE to the
pre-qualified contractors and the operating procedures have been adopted by STEE and the management
contractor responsible to operate the new power plant.
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
13.   The new 20 MW units will be located on a 9-hectare (ha) site at the Farcha industrial site, on the
outskirts of N'Djamena. Although the site was acquired by STEE several years ago, by March 2002 some
20 families totaling 131 persons had settled illegally on that site and built homes. The new generating
facilities to be commissioned under the project will however only use less than 50% of the 9 ha site and
will not have an impact on these homes. In order to comply with the Bank Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement, the Bank requested the preparation of an abbreviated resettlement action plan. On June 25,
2002 the Govemment submitted a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) acceptable to the Bank indicating that
the RAP will be implemented by April 1, 2003. Satisfactory implementation of the RAP will be a
condition for proceeding with the construction of the second tranche of the new generating facilities at
Farcha; this is now expected to be occurring in second half of 2004. The main features of the
Resettlement Action Plan are as follows:
(a) New land will be provided to the 20 families by the Govemment services responsible for city
planning; this land will be near the industrial site;
(b) STEE will provide assistance for the construction of the new houses, other facilities, planting of trees,
and for the transport of the families and their goods; and
(c) The resettlement will need to be completed before the initiation of the construction activities related
to the second tranche of generating plants.
- 88 -



Additional Annex 13: CONTRACTUAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
CHAD: CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Part 1. Contractual Arrangements
A. Regulatory Framework
1.    Law no. 014/PR/99 for the Electricity sector promulgated on June 15, 1999 and Law no.
016/PR/99 for the Water sector promulgated on August 18, 1999 are the main legal instruments
regulating these two economic sectors at present. The two laws confirm the State's withdrawal
from the daily operations of utilities and concentration instead on the legislation, regulation, and
planning and development of the two sectors. The laws allow an acceptable degree of
competitiveness in the market and ensure fair regulation among the different players (State,
operators, consumers) by an independent body.
2.    With respect to the electricity sector, the law has rescinded the production, transmission,
and distribution monopoly granted to STEE. Independent power producers are allowed and
various forms of priVate sector participation, from management to ownership of assets, are also
permitted. The setting up of an autonomous regulatory body has been described in the Law. The
principles of the tariff setting in the law ensure that a private operator can recover all normal
exploitation costs, including a normal gross margin. Furthermore, the tariff could be revised
under an indexation formula.
3.     With respect to the water sector, the law covers all aspects of water activities including
the public service of potable water. The law allows market competition between the main
operator of the STEE concession and independent operators for production, transport, storage,
and distribution of potable water. As in the electricity sector, the regulation of potable water is
under the control of an independent body (or one multi-sectoral body) and the tariff is determined
and indexed following the same rules.
4.    The new electricity and water laws created a Power Development Fund and a National
Water Fund. The main purpose of these two funds is to develop the access of potential
consumers in the rural areas to electricity and water services. The funds will support investment
in the production of electricity and potable water by the best available technical, economic (least
cost), and ecological means. They will also support, if necessary, repairs and maintenance costs
to keep the cost of both services affordable for poor people in rural areas and lend money at a
favorable interest rate to isolated potential customers. In addition, they will support capacity
building to improve technical and management skills mainly in the ministries and the future
regulatory bodies (or the multi-sectoral body).
5.    The funds will be financed by various means, including license fees, dues, subsides,
grants, and petroleum revenues. Furthermore, under the project, the difference between what the
Government charges as interest on-lent loans at commercial rates and the interest it pays on its
own borrowings from bilateral or multilateral lenders could be used to augment the resources of
these funds.
-89 -



6.    The regulatory bodies (or one multi-sectoral body) and the Power and Water Funds and
all the enabling regulations will be operational before implementation of the second phase of the
investment program begins.
B. Contractual Framework
7.    On January 28, 2000, a 30-year Concession Contract between the Government of Chad,
STEE, and the Vivendi-Dietsmann Group was signed together with a Management Contract ("
Contrat de Gestion") among the same parties. Both these contracts effective on
September 15, 2000.
8.    On September 11, 2000, a management contract ("Contrat d'exploitation") was signed
between the same parties to complete the contractual framework and to cover the period from the
end of the management contract to the takeover of a majority of the voting shares of either the
STEE or a new company to be created by the management contractor.
9.    The three contracts taken  together show  how  the management contractor,
Vivendi-Dietsmann, is progressively taking more risks as the profitability of the business
improves.
10.   The Concession Contract comprises three phases: In the first phase, the Management
Contractor assumes full responsibility for management of Chad's electricity and water supply
sectors for which it receives a fee. This fee consists of a fixed amount and a performance-based
amount, which cannot exceed 18% of the fixed fee (after a 24-month period this increases to
20%) and is based mainly on the Contractor's improved performance in billing and collection for
the two services. All investments and other funding required for the utility to operate are to be
provided by the State from its own resources or from the donors. During the first phase, the
mandate of the Management Contractor is to manage the electricity and water operations and the
technical and financial rehabilitation of the utility. In parallel, the Government is to ensure that
the financial restructuring of STEE is completed and that all enacted regulations are operational.
11.   In the second phase, the contractual arrangements will take the form of a private "Contrat
d 'Afferinage or "Contrat d 'exploitation". The Management Contractor will create a company in
which it will own a majority control and its fees will be derived from the revenues of the
electricity and water sectors. The investments and funding will still be mostly provided by the
State from its own resources or from donors. The transition from the Management Contract to the
"Contrat d'Affernage" will depend on meeting predefined financial criteria. It is expected that
this transition will become effective in September 2004 once the electricity and water
infrastructure is rehabilitated and N'Djamena's new power plant is commissioned.
12.   In the third phase, the contractual arrangements will take the form of a private concession.
The Management Contractor will then take a majority control of the existing concessionaire
STEE or of a new company it will create. The private concessionaire will finance all the
investments related to the concession at its own risk. The transition from the second to the third
90 -



phase will depend on a positive net book value of STEE and a sustainable annual net profit
forecast that should provide a satisfactory rate of return on the capital invested by the
management contractor in the STEE or in the new concession company.
Part 2: Implementation Arrangements
A. Project Implementation Monitoring
1.    Project implementation monitoring and oversight will be carried out by the Project
Monitoring and Oversight Committee-CTSPU ("Cellule Technique de Suivi du Progamme
d'Urgence de la STEE") created for the purpose of preparing and implementing the project. The
Minister responsible for the energy assures the oversight of this Committee and has assigned the
Energy Director to manage it. The CTSPU is already operational and has all interested parties
represented in it. The CTSPU will draw on the expertise and advise of an extemal engineering
firm and a procurement expert familiar with World Bank procurement guidelines and processes.
B. STEE's Implementation Arrangements
2.    STEE and the management contractor (Vivendi) have put in place special arrangements
to ensure that the project is executed efficiently and within schedule. The following project
organization chart includes these arrangements.
- 91 -



Republic of Chad
Mlnister of Mfines, Energy and Petroleum
Chairma of the STEE Monitoring Comumnittee
_   ~     r~jc Movnio    ingadOvrigt      l       STE E NSlonitoring Comniitee
ll      ~Commijtee CTSPU
|Coslig Engineer (Water ||[STEE
andElectricity  Water-p) Private Operator
H                       ~~~~~~~~Vivendi - Dietsmann Consortium
Stud_esadWos     Se            M    g Procurement  ad Program  Fgnaonsultants Power Plants
|    t          Water   y |   anagenri          a| ug>Support - Vivendi Group
Deut Maae                               >External Communication
Enginer- SOperations  En -inisttion and Finances                  Commercial
Mtrnagers                     Manager W   tManager
Water - ElectricityCo
DeputyqMana,ger li  DeputyManager-|| Depu92Manager |
Electricql 11 y  Water-Supply| |  Support   l 
Studies and Works||| Studies and Worka P||  rocure nent and |||Program Flu ncia | 
Electridty | |  Watr-Supply  ||| inventories  |||and Accounting | 
tEngincer- Studies  tEngineer- Studiest
l   l                                            0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cornrtnercial and Custoniers Managerment
tWorks ConmptroHfers  tWorks Cornptrollers 
Conmputer and Infornnation Technology
- 92 -









IU                            20'                            245
CHAD                                   PROJECT URBAN CENTERS, AND POPULATON
CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES             0>500,000 *100,000-050,000  050,000-100,000
-24                  REHABILITATION PROJECT                           *10,000-50,000  0 10,000
OIL FIELDS24
ALL-SEASON ROAD NETWORK
DRY SEASON ROAD NETWORK
0  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
d                    )                      v -e i)  PREFECTURE CAPITALS
w  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
Bo\  fo_                                - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-20                      > 1                                                                 - 2
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I  V                                                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,
NIGERBOi
BORK9U - ENNEDI - TIBESTI
.            /  ~~~~~s  \<=<1Bm D ~~~~~~~C-~'- 
-16-
s | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BILTrNE , 
{            ~~~KANEM         /dU 
NNolon                  /      BATHAo,-siltne                Sig
*S< edigo,                                                %     >J,
'e, i'm i!A E 9  . "     S       ~~~~~~~~   ~~H-. Diom   o   >,
ucF,,,0 ADDAI          SUDAN
I12-
CAM                (  *  a- 0 t X UrY~~~~~~~~~~~  RA  Di RP 
M.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
T. C-                                                                    CA 
-          ~~~TANDJILE
,\IY1FB                 CETA AFIA       EULC'-I                  *Dmn          UA
r...,.                                  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*A,o,,o,oO,no,f&l ,of ~   bd
24'
UBYAARAB
2 '                             OorA 0Io 100   A20E0                                         UPRE  R   U F' J
CAMEROON T'nM                                     RCNo  Ebo&            -              iF EGYP
Ndi-                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER  ICA
-             ~~~~~~~~~CENTR-AL AFRICAN REPUBLIC            CHA
/                                          "'~~~~~~~~~ll D~~~~~~~,,no,, ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ SUDAN
U  100     ~~~~~200  300 KILOMETERS  NIGERIA'
ER         -                                   IT                        ',     ,FRICAN REPUBUC
16'                               20           1 CAMKEROONli.-,,' 
9L                                      I       J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,-'






Report No.:        24112   CD
Type:     PAD



