                               Document of
                              The World Bank


                                                Report No: ICR00001891




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (Credit No 37140 CD)

                                     ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.4 MILLION
                     (US$ 54.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                         THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                     FOR A

CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT


                               June 28, 2011




Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW3
Africa Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2011)

                  Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                         SDR 1 = 1.58 US$
                      US$ 1.00 = 466 FCFA

                   FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 – December 31



       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
IDA     International Development Association
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEW     Ministry of Environment and Water
MME     Ministry of Mines and Energy
MPDE    Ministry of Plan, Development and Cooperation
MW      Megawatt
NPV     Net Present Value
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
STEE    Société Tchadienne d’Eau et d’Electricité (National Water and
        Electricity Company)
                                           CHAD

   CRITICAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER SERVICES REHABILITATION
                          PROJECT

                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
3. Assessment of Outcomes
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
6. Lessons Learned
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
A. Basic Information
                                                                 CRITICAL
                                                                 ELECTRICITY AND
Country:             Chad                  Project Name:         WATER SERVICES
                                                                 REHABILITATION
                                                                 PROJECT
Project ID:          P077240               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-37140
ICR Date:            06/28/2011            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                 THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                 CHAD
Original Total
                      XDR 41.4M         Disbursed Amount: XDR 24.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       XDR 24.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Société Tchadienne Eau et Electricité
 Ministry of Mines and Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Government of Chad


B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
    Process            Date           Process          Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept
                  12/19/2001      Effectiveness:        03/20/2003       03/20/2003
Review:
Appraisal:        01/31/2002      Restructuring(s):
                                  Mid-term
Approval:         10/10/2002
                                  Review:
                                  Closing:              03/31/2005       12/31/2010


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               High
Bank Performance:                          Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                      Unsatisfactory




                                          i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:         Unsatisfactory
                    Unsatisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing
                    Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                    Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                           Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                      QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                             Rating
     Performance                              (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                Satisfactory
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         Yes                               Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                     Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                           3
Power                                                  67                64
Water supply                                           30                36


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Access to urban services and housing                   14               11
 Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                        29               25
development
 Injuries and non-communicable diseases                 14               21
 Other financial and private sector development         14               21
 Other urban development                                29               22




                                           ii
E. Bank Staff
       Positions                    At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:       Ousmane Diagana                   Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:         Anna M. Bjerde                    M. Ananda Covindassamy
Project Team Leader:    Fabrice Karl Bertholet            Michel E. Layec
ICR Team Leader:        Fabrice Karl Bertholet
ICR Primary Author:     Nourredine Bouzaher

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) Secure the delivery of basic electricity and water supply services and prevent the
collapse of the system particularly in N'Djamena;
  (b) Reduce the costs of electricity and water supply services; and
  (c) Support increased private sector participation in the sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The project development objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the
project.

After the departure of the private operator in June 2004, which affected prospects for
reaching the PDOs, there were several unsuccessful attempts to formally restructure the
project. The restructuring could not be concluded because of (i) STEE focus on
overwhelming operational constraints and the frequent changes in leadership at the
ministry and STEE levels; and (ii) the Bank#s lenient assessment of the GoC#s
commitment and of project implementation risks. A last attempt to revise the project
objectives was made late in the life of the project, when Bank Management decided to
take a hard line in view of the project's lack of results on the ground despite significant
implementation support, but for reasons explained below, this restructuring exercise
could not be completed before the closing date of March 31, 2008. Only in November
2010, an exceptional retroactive extension of the closing date to December 31, 2010 was
granted by the Managing Director of the Bank, with the limited objectives of settling
outstanding debt to providers for goods and services rendered before the closing date and
reallocating the remaining funds to a water project.




                                            iii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values        Target Years
                Secure the delivery of basic electricity and water supply services and
Indicator 1 :
                prevent the collapse of the system, particularly in N’Djamena
                                                                           Power generation
                                                                           and distribution,
                                                                           as well as
                                                                           production and
                                                                           distribution of
                                                                           water, are not
                                                                           providing reliable
                                          Power generation
                                                                           and quality
                                          and distribution,
                                                                           service. Service
Value           The power and water production and
                                                                           interruptions and
quantitative or sectors are threatening distribution of NA
                                                                           the high level of
Qualitative) total collapse               water supply
                                                                           technical and non-
                                          services function
                                                                           technical losses in
                                          smoothly
                                                                           electricity and
                                                                           water are
                                                                           reflective of a
                                                                           lack of
                                                                           improvements in
                                                                           STEE’s
                                                                           performance.
Date achieved 07/31/2002                  10/31/2004                       03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reduce the costs of electricity and water supply services
Value
quantitative or 119 FCFA/kWh              47 FCFA/kWh                      199 FCFA/kWh
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2002                  10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
                The reduction in the cost of electricity generation was predicated on
                securing a cheaper fuel source for STEE’s power stations, notably through
                the development of the Sedigi oil field. This, as explained below, did not
Comments
                materialize. On the contrary, the price of diesel increased in Chad,
(incl. %
                reflecting international market prices. A closer analysis of the country
achievement)
                situation could have alerted the Bank that this availability of cheaper fuel
                would not materialize because, by the time of Board approval in October
                2002, the Sedigi oil field Project was already significantly off-track and



                                              iv
                the project sponsor was financially bankrupt.
Indicator 3 : Support increased private sector participation in the sectors
                                                                            The management
                                                                            contractor left
                                                                            soon after project
Value                                     Increased private
                A management contract                                       start and STEE
quantitative or                           sector interest in
                is in place                                                 returned to its
Qualitative)                              the energy sector
                                                                            former status of
                                                                            state owned
                                                                            enterprise (SOE).
Date achieved 07/31/2002                  10/31/2004                        12/31/2006
                The gradual introduction of private sector participation (with increasing
                financial responsibility) was the only realistic approach. However, some
                critical elements for success (a clear business plan, a strong team, and
                undivided political commitment) were missing. With hindsight, the
Comments
                involvement of a private operator in Chad electricity and water sectors
(incl. %
                should be viewed in the context of the end of the 1990’s and of the
achievement)
                prevailing enthusiasm at the time for private participation in infrastructure
                in developing countries. It would be extremely difficult today to attract
                any private sector interest for investing in the sector or for the
                management of STEE.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval       Target      Completion or
                                             documents)       Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Guaranteed (Firm) Generating Capacity for N’Djamena
Value
(quantitative           12.8 MW                22.5 MW                        25MW
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002             10/31/2004                    03/30/2007
                There has been a net increase of 12.2 MW of firm energy over the 2002
Comments
                baseline and a modest increase of 2.5 MW over the initial 2004 target (two
(incl. %
                years later). This takes into account new additions and decommissioning
achievement)
                of generating units.
Indicator 2 : New Installed Generating Capacity for N’Djamena
Value
(quantitative                                   20 MW
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 03/31/2004
Comments        The new installed generating capacity in N’Djamena was ultimately
(incl. %        financed by the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) and therefore removed
achievement) from IDA’s financing. The maintenance of this new power station is


                                              v
                uncertain.
Indicator 3 : Number of operational wells in N’Djamena
Value
(quantitative               19                   26                              43
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002           10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
Comments
                17 wells above the 2004 target were put into operation in 2006. The
(incl. %
                drilling and equipment were project supported.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of electricity connections
Value
(quantitative             16,224               17,324                          22,451
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002           10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
Comments        With a two-year delay, the target of electricity connections was exceeded.
(incl. %        There was a strong demand for electricity connections. However, the
achievement) generation side did not always keep pace.
                Technical and non technical losses (% of energy delivered to the
Indicator 5 :
                distribution network)
Value
(quantitative              29%                  24%                             32%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002           10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
                The analysis of monthly losses indicates that the expansion of power
Comments
                supply resulted in higher distribution and commercial losses, because the
(incl. %
                additional power went in large part to areas without proper metering and
achievement)
                billing.
Indicator 6 : Number of water connections
Value
(quantitative             20,503               21,200                          28,418
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002           10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
Comments        As for electricity connections, the demand for water connections was also
(incl. %        strong. Here also, the growth of water production kept a lid on the
achievement) maximum number of water connections that could be accommodated.
                Technical and non-technical losses (% of water delivered to the
Indicator 7 :
                distribution network)
Value
(quantitative              30%                  20%                             42%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          07/31/2002           10/31/2004                       12/31/2006
Comments        The project did not originally provide for the replacement of 30-year old
(incl. %        pipes, which were made of asbestos cement. As there were more
achievement) boreholes with pumps, the pressure in the water system increased, and this


                                            vi
              created more leakages in the pipes, hence more losses.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP               Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1   05/30/2003       Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                    2.79
  2   12/02/2003       Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                  12.43
  3   05/28/2004       Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                  18.06
  4   06/30/2004       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                 21.07
  5   12/15/2004       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                 23.54
  6   06/13/2005       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                 25.96
                        Moderately               Moderately
  7   12/21/2005                                                               29.78
                       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
 8    06/30/2006       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                 30.87
 9    12/23/2006    Highly Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 33.63
 10   06/21/2007    Highly Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 33.66
                        Moderately               Moderately
 11   12/14/2007                                                               33.66
                       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
 12   01/04/2011       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                 34.72

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:

1.1        Context at Appraisal:

1.     In early 2000, Chad’s electricity and water sectors were heavily burdened by the
legacy of long years of civil wars, geographic isolation and mismanagement.

          The electricity and water sectors remained broadly under developed.
          Access was limited to few thousand customers in Ndjamena and few secondary
           centers.
          The cost of electricity was high, owing both to poor efficiency/management
           practices and expensive fuel imports.
          Tariffs were not cost-reflective because they were not adequately adjusted
           following the devaluation of the FCFA in 1994.
          Collection of bills was poor, in part because there were many consumers who
           considered electricity and water as entitlements (and it was difficult to cut service
           for non-payment) and there was an accumulation of public and private arrears.
          Electricity and water service interruptions were increasing in severity with
           thermal units shut downs for lack of maintenance; and
          Water-borne diseases increased because of poor hygiene due to the lack of water
          There were recurrent energy crises due to the disruption of fuel supply in 1998/99
           and 1999/2000.
          The underdeveloped administrative and institutional capacity of the country
           presented limited options to reform the electricity and water sectors without
           external public and private assistance.

2.      This situation critically affected economic performance and government revenues
suffered from the disruption of economic activity caused by the energy crisis, leading to
the accumulation of substantial tax arrears by major enterprises and an increase in
internal debt. In response, the government had to reduce current expenditures, including
for priority sectors such as education and health.

3.      The performance of the electricity and water sectors required substantial
improvement in order to raise service quality, extend access to services and remove these
sectors as factors of economic instability. Although the government tried to find
solutions to the energy crisis, it failed to implement its strategy effectively and became
distracted by uneconomic proposals such as the purchase of diesel units which eventually
fell through because of the lack of financing1 or the projected development of a power
station next to the Sedigi oil field, north of N’Djamena for about 20-30 MW power plant.
This delayed critical actions needed for the recovery of the electricity and water sectors.

4.      Eventually, the government acknowledged this situation and adopted a new
strategy and program to contain the crisis and tackle long-term issues. Given the size and
condition of the public utility and the perceived high economic and political risks, the

1
    Eventually, the government lost its deposit of about $2 million USD


                                                      1
government was aware that the power and water sectors would not be able to attract
much private investors’ interest. Neither would a private partner be in a position to bring
all the financing needed by the sectors2. The government turned to IDA for assistance.

5.      The CEWSRP, which was the first IDA operation in the power and water sectors
in the country, was designed to take advantage of (a) the private sector management
arrangement in place in STEE, the national electricity and water utility, at time of project
preparation. The Bank viewed this arrangement as a means to put the sector on a path of
sustainable development and supported it; and (b) the future availability of a low-cost
fuel, coming from the Sedigi oil field, which was to be developed and operated by the
private sector. In addition, to contain the prevailing and severe energy crisis as well as to
tackle the long-term issues, the GoC had delineated a five-year investment program to be
carried out in two phases: a short-term action plan, supported by the CEWSRP, to ward
off the technical and financial collapse of the water and electricity sectors, and a long-
term action plan, to lower costs and tariffs significantly, increase access to electricity and
safe drinking water, and lessen the sectors’ ruinous burden on the budget and the
economy. Under this logic, the private-sector implemented CEWSRP was to bring about
a swift restoration of the critical electricity and water services in N’Djamena and other
urban areas, in order to set the ground for a sustainable development of the water and
electricity sectors.

6.      Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was consistent with the Bank’s
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chad, No. 19365-CD dated May 23, 2000. It
supported one of the main objectives of the CAS of removing constraints to economic
growth by, among other things, supporting reforms to improve the environment for
private sector participation and removing infrastructure bottlenecks in the electricity and
water supply sectors. The Bank was also keen to support its dialogue with the
government on the rational use of oil revenues3 for poverty reduction.
1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators [as
approved]:

7.      Project Development Objectives. The project was intended to support the efforts
of the government to:

        Secure the delivery of basic electricity and water supply services and prevent the
         collapse of the system, particularly in N’Djamena;
        Reduce the costs of electricity and water supply services; and
        Support increased private sector participation in the sectors.



2
  In 2000, the government contracted a private consortium to initially manage, then take full technical and
financial responsibility for the provision of electricity and water supply services that included N’Djamena
(which represented 80% of the country’s electricity consumption) and eight small urban centers.
3
  Derived from the Doba oil field development in the Southern part of the country. Oil is exported through
the Chad Cameroon pipeline, linking the Doba oil field to Kribi on the Atlantic coast of Cameroon.


                                                     2
8.     Key performance indicators:          The key performance indicators for the
achievement of the project development objectives were: (i) a well functioning electricity
and water activities providing quality and reliable service; (ii) a reduction in the average
generating cost of electricity to be achieved mainly through new fuel supply
arrangements4; and (iii) a support to increased private sector participation in electricity
and water services.

9.      The main indicators for the achievement of the project deliverables and outputs
were the: (i) increased availability of electricity and water supply services such as the
available generating capacity and the number of operational water wells in N’Djamena
(ii) Number of electricity connections; (iii) percentage of technical and non-technical
electricity losses; (iv) Number of water connections; and (v) percentage of technical and
non-technical water losses.

Summary table:
 PDO                                   Outcome Indicators                   Output Indicators
    Secure the delivery of basic       Power generation and                 - Availability of electricity
    electricity and water supply       distribution, production and         generating units increased from
    services and prevent the           distribution of water supply         12.8 MW in 2002 to 22.5 MW
    collapse of the system,            services function smoothly.          in 2004.
    particularly in N’Djamena                                               - Reduction in technical and
                                                                            non-technical electricity losses
                                                                            from 29% in 2002 to 24% in
                                                                            2004;
                                                                            -Number of electricity
                                                                            connections increase from
                                                                            16,224 in 2002 to 17,324 in
                                                                            2004
                                                                            - Increased number of water
                                                                            wells in N’Djamena
                                                                            - Reduction in technical and
                                                                            non-technical water losses from
                                                                            30% in 2002 to 20% in 2004
                                                                            - Number of water connections
                                                                            increase from 20,503 in 2002 to
                                                                            21,200 in 2004.
    Reduce the costs of electricity    Costs of delivered electricity and   Electricity generating costs
    and water supply services          water services decrease from         reduced from 119 FCFA/kWh in
                                       2001 levels                          2002 to 47 FCFA/kWh
    Support increased private sector   Increased efficiency of STEE         Increased private sector interest
    participation in the sectors                                            in the energy sector




4
 From cheaper oil from the Sedigi oil field located north of N’Djamena. The Sedigi oil field development
was abandoned after the private developer ran into major financing problems.


                                                       3
1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification:

10.     The project development objectives as laid down in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) remained unchanged throughout the life of the project. The key
indicators were also not modified. A project restructuring was undertaken during the
course of project implementation but its preparation was lengthy and difficult, due to a
lack of responsiveness and consistency on the part of STEE, to factors external to the
project such as a suspension of the country portfolio in 2006 but also to the fact that the
Bank management seemed to be hesitating about what to do with the project and fearing
that the closing of the project against the wishes of the government would endanger the
more important dialogue, from a poverty reduction perspective, on the use of oil revenues
from the Doba oil field. The closing date of March 31, 2007 was allowed to lapse but the
Bank made it known that the project might be retroactively extended and restructured if
the government was willing to implement meaningful actions which would allow for at
least some of the project development objectives to be achieved. For a variety of reasons,
including the political and security situation in Chad, the project restructuring could not
be completed. Eventually, a retroactive extension of the closing date to December 31,
2010 was approved by the Managing Direction Operations in November 11, 2010.
However, the project was extended only with the limited objectives to pay outstanding
debt from providers of goods and services rendered before the closing date and to
reallocate the remaining funds to the water component of an ongoing Bank supported
project (the Chad Urban Development Project, better known under its French acronym of
PADUR).
1.4     Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the “the primary
target group” identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other
individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project):

11.       Primary Target Group:
         Existing and new consumers of electricity and water supply. The project was to
          help sustain systems that were projected to collapse and deny power and water
          supply to some 12,000 families living primarily in N’Djamena, but also in Sarh,
          Moundou, Doba, Bongor, Abeche, Faya-Largeau, Moussoro, and Fianga and to
          economic activities that depended critically on these two inputs. New consumers
          would also have benefited from cost-effective electricity supply and reduced load
          shedding that would reduce the need for operating expensive back-up generators.

12.       Other Beneficiaries:
         The government budget and the overall economic activity, especially in
          N’Djamena. The implementation of the project together with the provision of
          cheaper petroleum products would lead to a reduction and subsequent elimination
          of budgetary subsidies that could be redirected to priority sectors. The street
          lighting component of the project would improve the security in N’Djamena and
          allow small businesses to operate after dark and children from poor households to
          study at night.


                                              4
1.5    Original Components (as approved):

13.    The project consisted of four components as follows:

Component 1. Rehabilitation and expansion of urban electricity production,
transmission and distribution systems.
This component included the following sub-components: (i) Rehabilitation and expansion
of electricity production facilities and transmission systems in N’Djamena, Moundou,
Sahr, Abeche, Doba, Bongor and Faya-Largeau; (ii) Rehabilitation and extension of
electricity distribution networks of N’Djamena, Moundou, Sahr, Abeche, Doba, Bongor
and Faya-Largeau; (iii) Rehabilitation of selected street lighting facilities in N’Djamena;
(iv) Acquisition of spare parts, equipment and tools; and (v) implementation studies;

Component 2. Rehabilitation and expansion of urban water supply systems.
This component included the following sub-components: (i) Rehabilitation and expansion
of the urban water supply facilities and distribution systems in N’Djamena, Moundou,
Sahr, Moussoro, Doba, Fianga, Bongor and Abeche; (ii) Rehabilitation of customer water
connections and meters, and acquisition of spare parts, equipment and tools; and (iii)
Implementation studies;

Component 3. Improvement in the technical, financial and environmental
performance of STEE and personnel safety standards.
This component included the following sub-components: (i) Improvement in the
technical and financial performance of STEE through the acquisition of a commercial
management system, an overhaul of STEE’s office equipment and the purchase of
operational vehicles ; (ii) Payment of the fees and expenses of STEE’s management
contractor; and (iii) Purchase of petroleum products for power generation and chemical
products for treatment of drinking water; (iv) Implementation of environmental and
personnel safety measures by STEE; and

Component 4. Preparatory activities for the second phase of the investment
program and project oversight.
This component included the following sub-components: (i) preparatory activities
required to prepare the second phase of the investment program (to be implemented by
STEE); and (ii) Strengthening the operational capacity of the Project Monitoring and
Oversight Committee (CTSPU) and preparatory activities required to prepare the second
phase of the investment program.

1.6    Revised Components:

14.     The project four components were adequate to capture the nature of the activities
required to prevent the collapse of the electricity and water service delivery mechanisms.
However, because of lack of funds, the priority was given to the restoration of the
electricity services. Following the financing of the Farcha Plant by the Islamic
Development Bank, the freed resources were reallocated to improve the water supply
systems. The components themselves were left unchanged throughout the life of the


                                            5
project. As explained earlier, several attempts were made to restructure the project but
they could not be concluded because of the limited commitment of the GoC to put in
place the required fiduciary, implementation and monitoring systems. The reasons for the
contemplated changes were: (i) the departure of the private contractor on April 15, 2004;
(ii) the significant depreciation of the US dollar against the Euro which is the currency of
the vast majority of contracts. As a result, the funds available to the project were reduced
by as much as 30%. There was therefore a disconnect between the implementation of
some components of the project, the achievement of project objectives as originally
envisaged and the resources at hand; and (iii) the absence of significant progress in the
management of the national utility (STEE) and a worrisome deterioration of its financial
situation. A major turn-around could have been provided with the supply of lower cost
fuel to STEE from a topping plant to be constructed at the Doba oil field in the southern
part of the country. This plant was to be designed to meet the fuel needs of STEE at a
substantially lower price than the cost of its standard fuel supply. In effect, it has been
projected that STEE’s fuel cost could be reduced by as much as 50%, creating a historic
opportunity for extending electricity coverage to hitherto non connected consumers and
improving the financial situation of STEE. Unfortunately, despite the strong willingness
of the Bank to finance a technical assistance to assist the Government in its negotiations
with the oil consortium to construct a topping plant on the Doba oil field to produce
cheaper fuel for the country’s power stations, the matter was not treated by the authorities
as a priority and the plant was not constructed.

1.7 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule, and funding allocations):

15.     The implementation schedule was often modified to reflect the life events of the
project both external such as conflicts and sanctions, and internal due to the limited
capacity of STEE to implement a wide ranging and complex project and the lack of
commitment of the government to implement serious but demanding reforms that would
have put STEE on the path to recovery. There was been one extension of closing date
from March 31, 2005 to March 31, 2007 on the basis that the GoC would use this
opportunity to complete the restructuring process. At the closing date, the Bank was
reluctant to close the project and was willing to extend the closing date retroactively on
an exceptional basis if the government and STEE were to implement a number of
measures to address the serious financial situation of STEE, including the signing of an
agreement with the oil consortium led by Exxon to build a topping plant to deliver
cheaper gas-oil to STEE. While discussions that could lead to a retroactive reopening of
the Credit between the government of Chad and the Bank regarding the future of the
project were being carried out, the preparation of an Implementation Completion and
Results Report (ICR) for the project, which would have been normally due no more than
six months after the closing date, had to be postponed.

16.   A formal request for an exceptional retroactive extension of the closing date from
March 31, 2007 to December 31, 2010 was approved by the Managing Director on




                                             6
November 11, 2010, in application of OP 13.305. The authorization was sought based on
exceptional country circumstances and necessary as the project did not fulfill any of the
three requirements described in paragraph 3 of OP 13.306. This retroactive extension was
to allow the payment of outstanding bills under the project. The remaining funds of
SDR17.44 million were canceled and re-committed as additional financing to the water
component of the ongoing Chad Urban Development Project pursuant to the Investment
Lending Reform approved by the Board of the World Bank on October 22, 2009. The
Bank confirmed this arrangement to the government of Chad on February 22, 2011.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

17.     Project preparation. The project design and preparation took into account
lessons learned from previous Bank assisted projects in Chad and elsewhere. Likewise,
the design considered risk factors and mitigation measures. However, the departure of
the private operator and its consequences on the project and the utility were not foreseen
or mitigated. STEE, with limited implementation capacity, found itself in charge of a
complex project. The weakness of the utility and the fast preparation of the project were
implicitly acknowledged through the long list of conditions of disbursement. The project
preparation felt short of building the ownership of the Chadian counterparts, who
perceived that the WB came to the rescue of the private operator. Indeed, the Credit was
viewed as a line of credit for the Private Operator.

18.     Quality at entry. The project objectives and activities were and largely remain
relevant to ensure the development of the power and water sectors in Chad. However,
the scope of the project and the results expected, given the prevailing instable situation in
Chad, were overly ambitious and optimistic for a first IDA operation. The
implementation time frame of just two years was unrealistic, even if the private operator
had not left. The project was complex and its implementation was predicated on the
continued presence of the private management contractor in place at the time. This
assumption of continued presence was derived from the existence of a signed long term
concession contract between the private operator and the government without regard to
the underlying conditions and economics of this contract that would ultimately lead it to
fail. Furthermore, the fragility of sector institutions was insufficiently recognized.

19.   Assessment of risks and project design. The risks as well as the mitigation
measures are an important element of project design. At the design stage, the risks

5
  OP 13.30, footnote 2: “Other exceptions to the policy against retroactive extensions of closing dates may
be justified on exceptional project and/or country circumstances and requires approval of the Managing
Director, Operations (MDO)”.
6
  OP 13.30, Paragraph 3: “To ensure successful completion of a project, the Bank may extend the closing
date if (a) the project objectives continue to be achievable; (b) the performance of the borrower and other
project implementing agencies is satisfactory; and (c) the borrower has prepared a specific action plan
acceptable to the Bank to complete the project.”


                                                     7
identified centered mainly on the willingness of the government to continue to support
reforms in the power and water sectors, the regular payment of government electricity
and water bills, the timely installation of power and water production facilities, the
completion of STEE financial restructuring and the ability of STEE to purchase heavy
fuel oil from the Sedigi refinery or crude oil at 60 FCFA/liter. This last point was critical
for restoring STEE’s financial viability. Given that the Bank had already expressed
skepticism regarding the Sedigi project, it was overly optimistic to design the CEWSRP
with the assumption that Sedigi would effectively be developed. Also, the risk of
departure of the management contractor was not anticipated, although there were already
signs of tension between the contractor and the Chadian authorities. One possible
mitigation measure for this risk would have been the preparation of alternative
implementation arrangements.

2.2    Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review,
Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

20.     This project had a long and tortuous history. From the start, the public-private
partnership (PPP) put in place at STEE was undermined by the inability of GoC to pay its
bills and operating subsidies to STEE. As a consequence, N’Djamena’s erratic electricity
and water supply did not improve, since the private operator was lacking the funds to
purchase fuel and conduct appropriate maintenance of electricity and water infrastructure.
In January 2004, a high-level seminar between the Bank and the GoC offered the
opportunity to discuss the constraints faced by the PPP and to agree with the GoC and the
private operator on a roadmap for the resolution of the crisis. However, the situation did
not improve and the private management contract was rescinded in June 2004, and a new
management team of nationals took over.

21.     In addition to the management contract, another fundamental assumption on
which the project was built was the availability of a low-cost fuel. However, prospects
quickly vanished as the Sedigi project ran into implementation problems because of
contractor’s default and lack of funds. The Bank had previously evaluated the economics
of the Sedigi field and its use for power generation and advised against its development,
in particular because the location of the field (300 km north of NDJ, not easily accessible
by road transport) would have required the construction of significant infrastructure
(including a pipe-line to NDJ and refining facilities) for relatively low volumes of oil
products. The government arguing a regional North South balance ignored the Bank
advice.

22.     The departure of the private operator could have triggered a suspension of
disbursements, as per the DCA provisions, but the Bank decided to keep the project
active for the following reasons: (a) the underlying strategy and activities of the January
2004 roadmap7 were still valid/relevant, even though STEE management had changed;
7
  An action plan drawn following the January 2004 high-level seminar between the Bank and GoC to bring
back STEE to a reasonable financial position so that it could implement the project and invest more in the
future to increase access and quality of electricity and water supply.


                                                    8
and (b) the power generation and water supply facilities were in need of significant
repair, and the Credit was the only financing instrument available to STEE. As a result,
the CEWSRP entered into a transitional period, whereby a two-pronged project
management/supervision approach was adopted: on one hand, critical activities or
emergency requests were processed to allow a reasonable functioning of STEE; and on
the other hand and in parallel, the restructuring process was launched. Bank fiduciary
controls on project expenditures (fuel, etc.) were further tightened after the departure of
the private operator as the risk of fraud or misuse of project funds increased. The
national team, who took over after the departure of the private operator, viewed this
whole exercise as a “disguised punishment” for the termination of the Management
Contract. The Bank’s position was quite delicate and striking the balance between the
need for change and the political economy of project environment was not easy. In order
to provide enough time for this process to be completed, an extension of the credit for
two years was granted at the Government request in March 2005 (i.e. up to March 31,
2007).

23.     However, following this extension, little progress was achieved on the
restructuring or on the implementation of several key project activities. This lack of
progress is attributable in large part to the difficult country context, particularly to
internal armed conflicts as well as the suspension by the Bank of the entire country
portfolio in 2006, leading to a six-month hiatus in all project activities. However, other
sector-specific factors have played a role as well, in particular the ineffectiveness and the
instability of the management of the utility STEE. In October 2006, due to the lack of
progress in the restructuring process, the Bank indicated that it would suspend
disbursements unless several measures (e.g. addressing procurement delays, setting up
adequate project and financial management arrangements) were implemented by the
authorities in a short timeframe. STEE then took incomplete steps to comply with these
measures. But this was too little too late with the arrival of the closing date of March 31,
2007. As already pointed out, the Bank was reluctant to close the project and was willing
to retroactively extend the closing date provided STEE and the government took a
number of actions to improve the prospects that the infrastructure component of the
project would be implemented.

24.     Five such actions were requested by the Bank and discussed with the Chadian
delegation at the Springs Meetings in April 2007: (i) payment by the government of all
outstanding bills, including operational subsidies and arrears to STEE; (ii) conclusion of
negotiations between the government and Esso on the roles and responsibilities for the
implementation arrangements and a timetable for the Doha topping plant to secure a
regular least-cost fuel supply to STEE; (iii) signature of an operation and maintenance
contract with the contractor of the Farcha power plant; (iv) signature of a two-year
strategic partnership contract with an experienced firm to address strategic planning,
fiduciary, procurement and human resources issues in STEE; and (v) completion of all
measures to operationalize the project implementation unit.




                                             9
25.     By September 2007, the government had implemented three of the five actions,
namely actions (i), (iv) and (v) – showing commitment to act on what was fully under its
control.     As a result, the preparation of a restructuring package for the project was
initiated in September 20078. In May 2008, while a final decision on the restructuring
and retroactive extension of the project was still pending, armed conflict took place in
N’Djamena between government and rebel forces. The Bank’s office in N’Djamena was
subsequently closed, mission travel suspended, and no decision was taken regarding the
extension of the closing date of the project. The relationship between the Bank and the
government has been in a state of flux since that time. Full Bank re-engagement is
underway, with the presentation to the Board of the Interim Strategy Note for Chad in
July 2010 and the appointment of a new Country Manager in N’Djamena in July 2010.

26.     With special exception from OCPS, the due date for this ICR was extended from
September 30, 2007 (i.e. the due date of the ICR following the closing date of March 31,
2007) to December 31, 2008. With the retroactive extension of the closing date to
December 31, 2010, the ICR submission was naturally postponed again, as with normal
projects, to six months after this date.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

27.     M&E design. The project was to be carried out by STEE and more specifically
by the private management contractor (until their departure) in accordance with a
schedule that included the actions to be undertaken, the target dates and monitorable
performance indicators. The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and the Project
Monitoring and Oversight Committee (CTSPU) were responsible for supervising and
monitoring the project. The CTSPU was to submit to Government and to IDA quarterly
reports summarizing progress in implementation, procurement, financial commitments,
and the achievement of the performance indicators. The major flaw in the project design
was the assumptions that: (i) the private management contractor at STEE would remain
in place and would oversee the implementation of the project and help improve STEE’s
financial situation; and (ii) cheaper sources of fuel supply for power generation would
easily made available through the development of the Sedigi oil field, north of
N’Djamena and when this prospect was abandoned, through the construction of a topping
plant on the Doba field in the southern part of the country. Neither of these prospects
came about. The Doba deal fell through because the government and the consortium led
by Esso failed to agree on the financial terms of the deal and the negotiations became
protracted. This affected the project’s prospects and had a profound effect on the viability
of STEE.

28.     M&E Implementation. The poor performance of STEE and the ultimate demise
of the management contract put the whole system of gathering and reporting information
into disarray. However, the supervision team was able to tap into STEE’s data to measure

8
 From this package came the current proposal is to reallocate 100% of the project balance to the water
sector and to discontinue IDA support to the electricity sector.


                                                    10
the achievement of major indicators particularly those related to the infrastructure
components.

29.     M&E utilization. The M&E indicators were instrumental in pointing out
deficiencies in the implementation progress and in designing the January 2004 road map
for the electricity and water sectors as well as scenarios for project restructuring,

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution,
as applicable):

30.     All financial management (FM) missions commented on the inadequacy of the
financial management arrangements and most included action plans to improve the
situation, although these were rarely acted upon by the government or STEE. The audit
for 2004 and 2005 were received on a timely basis and comments were sent to the
borrower. Both audits had serious qualifications, including the absence of project
accounting, weak internal controls and vehicles requisitioned by the government 9 .
Appropriate remedies were not taken immediately due to the critical nature of the
services provided10 and in March 2005 the credit was extended by two years to allow for
project restructuring. There was no FM rating at appraisal but the overall project risk was
rated as modest, despite the country being obviously high risk11. However, there was a
close FM supervision, identification and follow-up of issues. Although the Bank chose
not to take remedial action, the FM situation was closely monitored.

31.     The project was classified as environmental category B and some of the
investments being financed under the project had environmental impacts governed by
credit conditionalities. The difficult situation prevailing in the country together with
severely strained relations with the Bank, especially in FY06, complicated supervision
and covenant compliance. Adequate attention was given to pollution concerns associated
with hydrocarbon transport and storage as well as safety issues. As the Bank became
more pressing on compliance with environmental and social safeguards, the government
opted to downplay issues. With hindsight, given STEE’s dismal capacity in the
environmental and social areas, one should not have expected it to carry out a complex
set of tasks while it had a limited capacity to carry even straightforward infrastructure
investments.

32.    When originally prepared, the project included the need to resettle 131 people in
20 squatter families on the site of the proposed Farcha power station. Consultations were
held with the residents and an abbreviated RAP was prepared and submitted to the Bank

9
  This matter was resolved when the money used to purchase the vehicles was paid back to the project, at
Bank’s strong insistence.
10
   In April 2004, the contract of the private operator was terminated and management reverted to the local
staff. Under the terms of the credit agreement, this could have been ground for the suspension of
disbursements but the Bank decided to continue with the project on reputational, health and emergency
grounds.
11
   Chad also had a very poor rating in the Transparency International index of fraud and corruption.


                                                    11
for approval. This RAP was cleared before Board presentation. However, in July 2004,
without consulting the Bank, the new power plant component at Farcha was dropped
from Bank financing and proposed to the financing of the Islamic Development Bank
(IsDB). However, in the absence of a formal amendment to the credit agreement, the
environmental obligations associated with this component were not extinguished.
Unfortunately, the Bank, in the absence of a suspension of disbursement which it was
reluctant to do, had little leverage to ensure compliance. It appears that the affected
people have been resettled, but the Bank was unable to obtain the cooperation of the
government or STEE in securing information to determine the levels of compensation
these people may have received or the condition of the affected population after
relocation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:

33.     As noted earlier, the relationship between the Bank and Chad has been strained,
especially over the issue of use of oil revenues for poverty reduction. A resumption of
the dialogue between the Bank and Chad has however taken place. The power sector has
been mentioned by the Government as a sector where assistance may be needed. The
current Bank support strategy emphasizes projects with immediate poverty reduction
impact and, when feasible, greater involvement with communities and non-governmental
actors for project implementation. In this context, the choice has been made to direct
resources preferentially towards the water sector. For this reason, following the project
retroactive extension in November 2010, remaining funds under the credit have been
redirected to an ongoing water operation (Chad Urban Development Project).

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.      Relevance of Objectives. The primary rationale for the project was to prevent the
power and water sectors in N’Djamena and elsewhere in the country from collapsing, and
subsequently to increase access to electricity and water services. This general objective
still appears relevant and appropriate today. However, the expectations were set too high
with regard to the pace at which improvement in services and their scale-up could be
realistically and sustainably achieved. The fact that the poor performance and limited
implementation capacity of STEE represented a major impediment to maintaining a
reasonable quality of service or, a fortiori, increasing access was duly recognized during
project preparation. At the time, the solution provided to this challenge was to entirely
rely on the private operator in place, seen as the way to ensure adequate project
implementation and sustainability. Private sector participation was therefore one of the
PDO. PPP arrangements for the management of STEE had been put in place in
September 2000, two years before project appraisal, following the signature of a legal
agreement between the GoC and an international private operator in January 2000. The
design of the contract was extremely ambitious, covering a 30 year period, and included a
staged strengthening of the PPP with three successive PPP modalities (management
contract, to be followed by affermage (leasing) arrangements, and eventually a


                                           12
concession). It was understandable for the Bank, in view of STEE mismanagement as a
State-Owned Enterprise, to support the introduction of private participation in the sector.
It turned out however that it was overly optimistic to assume that the private operator had
correctly anticipated the magnitude of the problems they were was going to face.
Unfortunately, the PPP arrangement for the management of STEE proved to be short-
lived. The underlying factors behind this failure are numerous and could have been better
anticipated at the time of project preparation: financial dependence of STEE for its day-
to-day operations on government bill payments and subsidy transfers, extreme difficulty -
given the security situation in N’Djamena - to enforce payment discipline for a large
fraction of customers (in particular for members of the armed forces), difficulty to
reconcile expectations of rapid improvement in service delivery with the deteriorated
condition of the infrastructure and equipment, delays in financing and implementation of
investments required to improve service quality, limited capacity of STEE workforce, etc.

35.     Also, in 2002, the investors’ appetite for infrastructure investment in developing
countries had already somewhat receded, and the solidity of the private operator’s
commitment to maintaining a long term presence in Chad might have been questioned. It
also turned out that the commitment of the authorities with regard to private participation
was fragile.

36.     The GoC became increasingly frustrated with the slow pace of tangible progress
in service delivery, while the operator was in a position to argue that the failure of the
GoC to comply fully and timely with key obligations (especially bill payments and
budget transfers) was the source of the problems.

37.     The performance of the system deteriorated further after the departure of the
private management in 2004 with frequent rotation of general managers, not all qualified
to run a company badly in need of good management and financial resources.

38.     Relevance of the design and implementation. The design of the project was
appropriate with STEE under a private management but was otherwise not appropriate,
too complex and out of line with the implementation capacity of STEE without it. With
hindsight, the risk of departure of the private management should have been identified
and mitigation measures prepared. The implementation sequence was appropriate but the
implementation itself ran into delays due both to poor management and lack of capacity
of the executing agency. The country context had been difficult, including internal as
well as external conflict. In addition, the decision of the Bank to halt disbursements on
the Chad portfolio over a dispute on the use of oil revenues generated by the Doba oil
field development in Southern Chad further disrupted and slowed down project
implementation. The management contract which was in place before the project but
which was interrupted during project implementation not only did not achieve its
objectives but left STEE in the middle of the implementation of this project without the
benefit of a well prepared local staff replacement. Therefore the management contract
masked institutional and capacity weaknesses that became bare with the departure of the
private operator. The project overcommitted itself especially in terms of cost reduction


                                            13
and private sector participation. Other fundamentals (such as tariffs, business
environment, regular payment of bills and settlement of arrears, etc.) had to be in place
for sustainable private sector participation. Not only these were not present but were
unlikely to be present even after project closing. Bank’s implementation assistance was
responsive to changing needs, such as pushing for the topping plant in the Doba oil field
to produce cheaper fuel for the country’s power stations.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives:
Rating: Unsatisfactory

39.     The PDOs were met only partially. While the project prevented the collapse of
the system, particularly in N’Djamena, it did not secure the delivery of basic electricity
services, because of the limited capacity of STEE to implement the project as designed.
Relatively more progress was achieved in the water sector. The project supported a
significant increase in water production capacity (13 wells dug, pumping equipments
installed), and three water chlorination units were open. However, the works on the water
distribution network could not be carried out as planned before project closing. Also, the
power and water sectors are not financially self-sustainable and will continue to require
budget transfers. The price of electricity generation has increased as a result of rising
fuel prices. Distribution losses have in fact increased as a result of the effort to expand
supply to less solvent customer categories.

3.3    Efficiency

40.      The economic net present value was estimated in the PAD at about US$45
million. The revised cost benefit analysis for investments actually made under the project
gives a net present value of US$6.4 million. The main assumptions are broadly similar to
those described in the PAD, except that there was no reduction in fuel costs. The
calculations assume that the investments will be properly maintained throughout their
useful life. Since this may not happen given the difficult financial situation of STEE and
its track record/capacity with regard to maintenance, a sensitivity analysis was carried out
to test the effects on the NPV of a cut by half in the useful life of the investments made.
This would result in an NPV of US$3.6 million. The efficiency would have been much
higher had the government secured an agreement with the oil consortium to build a
topping plant in Doba and the prospects of maintenance would also have been much
better because fewer resources would have been devoted to purchase fuel. Even if the
economic analysis tends to show that expanding power supply through the public utility
STEE was more economic than the absence of service provision, this provision required
significant public resources (IDA credit, operating subsidy to STEE). Also, given the lack
of efficiency of STEE for critical utility functions (investment planning and maintenance,
fuel supply chain, billing and collection), it is not clear that public sector provision of
electricity services is necessarily more efficient than decentralized provision (self-
generation).




                                            14
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

41.   Based on the explanations given in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 above, the overall
outcome is rated unsatisfactory.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

42.     Poverty and social development: The project had a direct and indirect effect on
poverty reduction. The project provided safe water supply to a larger number of people,
including the poor, through water fountains, and it also had an indirect impact on poverty
reduction because the availability of electricity improves the competitiveness of
businesses and firms and employment including the poor. However the question of
sustainability of these achievements, as discussed earlier, remains.

43.    Gender aspects: N/A

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on
longer-term capacity and institutional development)

44.     Had STEE been able to secure a cheaper source of fuel, through the topping plant
that was to be built by the oil consortium in the Doba oil field, it would have been able to
reduce its operating costs significantly and allocate its extra revenue to maintenance and
expansion of the electricity and water services. This was predicated on the existence of
good utility management and improvements in the governance of the sector, as well as on
the regular payment of bills and settlement of arrears by government, state owned
enterprises and the private sector.

45.     Post-project implementation: In 2010, the government established a new Ministry
of Water and unbundled STEE in two companies one for electricity and a separate one
for water: Societe Nationale d’Electricite (SNE) and Societe Tchadienne des Eaux
(STE), respectively. Reducing fuel costs remain the overarching objective for the
electricity sector.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

46.    The negative impact the quality and the departure of the private management had
on the project and the utility have already been commented upon (see for example
sections 2.2 and 3.1 above)

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder: N/A


                                            15
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High.

47.     Two development objectives were not met, namely the reduction in the cost of
water and electricity supply, and private sector participation. The third was only partially
achieved because the project could not be completed before the closing date. The
sustainability of infrastructure investments funded through the project is conditioned by
the efficiency of the utility managing them. The risk to development outcome is high
because of the management problems within STEE, the very high cost of fuel and the
governance problems of the sector,

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower                  Performance     (relating to design,
implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

48.     The design of the project was appropriate with STEE under a private
management, although the operator had limited knowledge of the Bank procedures, but in
the absence of the private operator the project design was not appropriate, too complex
and out of line with the implementation capacity of STEE. The private operator was
supposed to strengthen the systems of STEE in many areas but it was clearly
overwhelmed by the magnitude of the required changes, the hostility of the social
environment and the governance issues. Furthermore the assessment of risks failed to
take into account the particularly strained relationship between the government and the
private management team and its consequences on the project and the utility. It may also
have overestimated the government commitment to the project and to sector recovery
through private participation.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Unsatisfactory

49.    The political economy environment made it difficult to address key technical and
managerial problems for which decisive focus and actions were required on the side of
the government and the utility. The project inherent importance was clearly
overshadowed by the dialogue around the issues of the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline. Except
for a hard stance on sector specific issues (regarding procurement of fuel and
containerized diesel generators), the Bank generally opted for a “softer and politically
accommodating” stance. Overall, this resulted in the Bank losing credibility and ability to
influence the course of action in the sector. The Bank led an intensive supervision and
hand-holding effort throughout the life of the project with, in average, three full-fledged
supervision missions per year, complemented by more focused supervision interventions


                                            16
(on FM, procurement, or sector related technical issues). Also the team was forthright
and candid in pointing out issues and putting forward solutions (this is corroborated by
their ratings of DOs and IPs in ISRs and by the quality of supervision assessment carried
out by QAG in September 2006, which rated the candor and quality of ISRs as highly
satisfactory), such as preparing a restructuring proposal and a road map for getting STEE
and the electricity and water sectors out of their current crisis and improving the chances
of achieving what remained achievable, namely implementation of the infrastructure
components. After the departure of the private management, the team revised
implementation arrangements such as new contract packaging (i.e. supply and installation
instead of supply only) after it determined that STEE could not install the electricity and
water equipment bought with the credit proceeds. Although the team was forceful in
raising the question of safeguards compliance in connection to the Farcha power station,
the government and STEE provided no information or assurance that the resettlement and
environmental components have been carried out in accordance with relevant Bank
policies. The team repeatedly recommended a suspension of disbursements as the only
leverage likely to draw the attention of GoC to the seriousness of the issues raised by the
Bank. However, in the context of the power supply crisis experienced at the time
(available generation capacity in the capital had fallen below 10 MW in 2004), a
suspension of disbursement could have been perceived negatively by the Chadian
authorities, with possible consequences on the dialogue regarding oil revenue
management.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

50.    Sector and country management remained engaged and provided timely guidance
to the task team. Country and region management were however reluctant to stop
disbursements or close the project, in view of the larger implications of the project to the
whole Bank Chad relationship and especially to the Bank engagement in the broader
issue of poverty reduction through the use of oil revenues generated by the export of
crude oil from the Doba field. The project was nominally closed in March 31, 2007 but
the Bank was still willing to grant a retroactive extension if only STEE and the
government were to carry out a number of measures, including project restructuring, to
ensure that the project would meet its physical objectives and that these objectives were
sustainable. Unfortunately, STEE and the government’s responses were too little too late
before the situation in the electricity and water sectors was drowned by internal and
external conflicts.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory




                                            17
51.     The government has perpetuated the instability of STEE with too frequent
changes of general managers. There was a lack of sector policy or strategy and therefore
any sense of direction for the sector. As a consequence, there was little interest in the
sector, even from traditional donors such as the French AFD. This interest could have
been rekindled with the restructuring of project objectives, including for improving STEE
management and financial situation. However, this did not happen, as explained earlier.
Finally, the government’s negotiations with the oil consortium to build the topping plant
in the Doba field to deliver cheaper fuel to STEE were not led as forcefully as the
importance and the urgency the matter commanded.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

52.      There were too many changes at the head of STEE and little time was given to
any one of them to think or plan beyond the short-term. As noted earlier, there were
serious institutional and capacity issues that surfaced with the end of the management
contract. A restructured project would have addressed these deficiencies through a
variety of means (training, secondment of specialists, material and technical support,
etc.). This support, however, is no substitute for a long-term vision about the future of
the institution and a focused and sustained capacity building effort, supported by a
significant reduction in fuel cost through the building of a topping plant in the Doba oil
field. STEE disbanded the project implementation unit (PIU) and project implementation
lost its momentum and part of its expertise since the PIU staff were assigned to other
tasks in various units of STEE.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

53.    In view of the government and STEE performance as discussed in section 5.2
above, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory.
6.     Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

54.    Scope of project development objectives (PDO) in fragile states. PDOs should
be simpler, less ambitious and more realistic for countries with limited implementation
capacity and a fragile political environment. The time estimated for project
implementation should also be more realistic.

55.    Choice of investment activities and assessment of project economic benefits
in fragile states. Some utility sector investments can appear to have ex ante a solid
technical and economic justification because a reasonable level of efficiency on the part
of the public utility is assumed. They often turn out to have much reduced beneficial
impact ex post, because of the weak capacity of the utility in critical areas (especially
ensuring adequate maintenance). More realism in project benefit evaluation is called for,


                                           18
which could lead to a selection of activities and investments that are more adapted to a
context a persistently sub-optimal utility performance.

56.     Willingness to enforce remedies in the context of a tense dialogue between the
Bank and the borrower. Whenever there is a tension within the Bank between the
narrow project objectives and the need not to jeopardize the wider dialogue with the
government, the rules of engagement should be clearly defined both internally and with
the government as to what the Bank is trying to achieve without compromising either
objective. In the context of this project which had been designed around the presence of
a private operator without any consideration for alternative implementation arrangements,
this would have implied immediate suspension of disbursements and restructuring after
the departure of the operator. It would have been incumbent on the Bank to convey to the
authorities that such a suspension was not to be interpreted as a sanction, but as a
necessary administrative measure, required by Bank rules and procedures.

57.     Compliance with safeguard obligations in fragile states. The experience of the
Chad Critical Electricity and Water Services project shows that enforcement of
safeguards, in the face of the reluctance of the government and STEE to enforce them, is
difficult. The lesson learned is that compliance with Bank’s safeguards, should, if not
required by effectiveness, be tied to disbursements on the component concerned or, as the
situation may warrant, on the whole project.

58.      Level of investments and implementation arrangements for infrastructure
investments in fragile states. The level of investment should be tailored to the
implementation capacity of the executing agency and to the administrative and
institutional capacity of the country. This level can be increased gradually as this
capacity and sustainability are improved. Furthermore, implementation arrangements
should be kept simple and able to withstand some level of disturbance. As a fallback
position, alternative implementation arrangements should also be explored. Assuming
that the private operator has taken full cognizance of all the difficulties of its operating
environment proved to be farfetched as has been the case in many failed private sector
participations in Africa. In this project, this was a key risk for which no mitigation was
provided, and should have logically triggered a suspension of disbursement after the
private operator departed.

59.     Importance of realistic risk assessment and appropriate mitigation measures.
A candid and thorough assessment of risks and mitigation measures could have steered
the project through turbulent times and difficulties. The risk of failure of the private
sector arrangement was not evaluated as high and there was therefore no particular
measure or alternative arrangement put in place to mitigate it should it happen. Based on
the international experience over the last decade, private sector participation in fragile
states should be carefully evaluated and efforts to attract the private sector in such
countries must be realistically designed. Also, private participation in fragile states may
not always be feasible, but legal/regulatory/policy reforms are often possible and can



                                            19
represent first steps on the road to improved infrastructure service provision through
private participation.
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies:

60.     In its report on the project, the borrower expresses an overall satisfaction with the
results achieved by the project in terms of physical investments, even though these
investments represent only a small fraction of what would be required to improve access
to electricity and water in the capital and provincial cities. The report also highlights the
adverse impact on implementation of the suspension of disbursements in 2006 (related to
the suspension by the Bank of the entire country portfolio), and expresses regrets regard
the project closing in 2007 before ongoing and planned activities could be completed.
The borrower’s report does not comment on issues related to sector reform and
sustainability and could be interpreted as reflecting the fact that some of the original
project objectives in this respect were not fully “owned” by the borrower.

(b)    Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

N/A




                                             20
                            Annex 1.       Project Costs and Financing

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                          Actual /Latest      Percentage of Appraisal
                                  Appraisal Estimate
           Components                                       Estimate
                                    (US$ million)
                                                          (US$ million)
  1.Rehabilitation and
  Expansion of Urban
  Electricity Production,                29.7                 12.1                    41%
  Transmission and
  Distribution Systems
  2.Rehabilitation and
  Expansion of Urban Water               7.4                   7.7                   104%
  Supply Systems
  3.Improvement in the
  Technical, Financial, and
  Environmental Performance              8.9                  14.5                   163%
  of STEE and Personnel
  Safety Standards
  4.Preparatory Activities for
  the Second Phase of the
                                         2.8                   1.5                     54%
  Investment Program and
  Project Oversight
            Total Baseline Cost          48.8                 35.8                    73%
  Contingencies                          4.9
            Total Project Costs          53.7                 35.8                    67%
  Project Preparation Facility
                                         2.0                   2.0                    100%
  (PPF)
      Total Financing Required           55.7                37.8 (*)                 68%
 (*) Source: Client Connection
 Total (and final) amount disbursed as of march 30, 2011

(b)       Financing

                                            Appraisal                Actual/Latest
                             Type of                                                    Percentage of
      Source of Funds                       Estimate                   Estimate
                            Financing                                                    Appraisal
                                          (US$ million)              (US$ million)
 Government                                     0.90                         -
 IDA                                          54.80                       37.8            69%




                                                  21
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity Production,
            Transmission and Distribution Systems

1. New diesel units and rehabilitation of existing units in NDjamena
      Purchase of 4 diesel sets (20MW)
      Maintenance program for Ndjamena power station
               Maintenance of diesel unit GE4
               Purchase of Spare parts
               Preparation of the site for the power station
               Gas-oil supply facilities

2. Rehabilitation of existing units in secondary centers
      Rehabilitation of Sarh power station
      Rehabilitation of Abeche power station
      Rehabilitation of Bongor power station

3. Rehabilitation and extension of distribution systems in NDjamena and secondary
      centers
      Electrification of Doba
      Rehabilitation of NDjamena network
      Rehabilitation and extension of networks in secondary centers
      Purchase and installation of new consumer meters in NDjamena and secondary
      centers
      Rehabilitation of existing connections in NDjamena and secondary centers

4. Rehabilitation of public lighting in NDjamena

5. Purchase of spare parts, tools and small equipment.


Component 2: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Water Supply Systems

1. Rehabilitation and strengthening of production and distribution facilities in NDjamena
      Rehabilitation and strengthening of production facilities
      Rehabilitation and strengthening of distribution networks
      Rehabilitation of consumer connections, meters and constitution of stocks of
      spare parts
      Purchase of diesel sets and spare parts to increase the reliability of water pumping
      stations
      Construction of a warehouse to house spares and equipment for water supply
      Construction of a wellhead in two pumping stations
      Construction of a meter testing lab

2. Rehabilitation and strengthening of production and distribution facilities in secondary
centers


                                            22
Component 3: Improvement in the Technical, Financial, and Environmental
Performance of STEE and Personnel Safety Standards

1. Purchase of equipment and installation of a system of commercial management
       Purchase of a software of commercial management and a study on commercial
       procedures
       Computers and accessories
       Purchase of vehicles
       Census of STEE’s consumers
       Setting up an office for pre-paid meters in Ndjamena
2. Payment of the fees and expenses of the management contractor (before it left)
3. Purchase of petroleum and chemical products for electricity and water
4. Implementation of environmental and personnel safety measures by STEE

Component 4: Preparatory Activities for the Second Phase of the Investment
             Program and Project Oversight

1. Expenses of the support unit
      Consulting engineer

2. Strengthening of the operational capacity of the support unit
       Study on the financial restructuring of the electricity and water sectors
       Financial audits of IDA credit
       Strengthening of its project coordination capacity

3. Technical assistance to STEE and capacity building
       Technical assistance to the monitoring of the distribution network
       Technical assistance to the human resources department
       Technical assistance for the monitoring of the performance improvement plan
       Technical assistance to the preparation of the topping plant project

4. Preparation of phase II by the support unit
       Updating the master plan for the secondary centers
       Rural electrification strategy and action plan




                                            23
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Investment costs            Components 1 and 2 of the project                         K           FUEL   ELEC        WATER
Average Electricity tariff     0.44    US$/kWh                                                           SALES       SALES
Average Water WTP                1     US$/m3
Operation and Maint. Costs      5%     of Investment costs/year                           0.00%              0.00%
Chemicals and other costs      2.0     US$ million/year
Long run marginal cost gen.     30     Uscents/kWh
T&D (excl. losses)                                                                    NPV@10%                           $6.45
                                                                                      IRR@10%                            29%


               Invest        Oper. &   Electricity    Chemicals      Total   Electricity Losses Electricity Water     Losses    Water    Total    Net
    Year        Cost       Maintenance    Costs      & Other Costs   Costs   MV and LV     %      Sales Production      %       Sales   Benefits Benefits
                                                                               (GWh)           US$ Million
    2002        1.50           0.08        0.00          0.15        1.73         0        29      0.00      2.40       30       1.68    1.68     -0.04
    2003        5.70           0.36        0.00          0.58        6.64         0        29      0.00      5.60       30       3.92    3.92     -2.72
    2004        5.10           0.62        19.20         0.52        25.44       64        24     21.40      8.00       30       5.60    27.00    1.57
    2005        7.50           0.99        19.20          2.0        29.69       64        24     21.40      8.00       30       5.60    27.00    -2.69
    2006                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2007                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2008                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2009                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2010                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2011                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2012                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2013                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2014                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2015                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2016                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2017                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2018                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2019                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2020                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2021                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2022                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2023                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2024                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2025                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2026                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57
    2027                       1.98        19.20          2.0        23.18       64        32     19.15      8.00       30       5.60    24.75    1.57

                                                                                                                     NPV@10%                        $6.45
                                                                                                                     IRR@10%                         29%


-    The average tariff for electricity of 44 cents/kWh has been taken as indicative of the willingness to pay for electricity.

-   The main differences with the economic analysis conducted in the PAD are: (i) the levels of electricity and water sold; (ii) the level of losses
expected which has increased; and (iii) the cost of fuel which has not decreased due to the fact that the Sedigi oil field was not developed.




                                                                                   24
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                            Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Hugues Agossou              Sr Auditor                       IADVP
Yao Badjo                   Senior Infrastructure Speciali   AFTUW
Angel Baide                 Consultant                       LCSPS
Fabrice Karl Bertholet      Sr Financial Analyst             AFTEG
Nourredine Bouzaher         Consultant                       AFTEG
Ningayo Charles Donang      Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
Marc L. Heitner             Consultant                       MNSSD
Amadou Kane                 Advisor to Executive Director    EDS13
Etienne NKoa                Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Fridolin Ondobo             Financial Management Specialis   AFTFM
Yves Andre Prevost          Lead Environment Specialist      AFTEN
Richard Mahougnon Senou     Sr Financial Analyst             AFTEG
Richard Verspyck            Consultant                       AFTUW

   (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
   (The system pulls data available for all fields)


                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                             USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)

Lending
 FY02                                              4                     55.15
 FY03                                              6                     80.68
 FY04                                                                     0.00
 FY05                                                                     0.00
 FY06                                                                     0.00
 FY07                                                                     0.00
 FY08                                                                     0.00
 Total:                                          10                     135.83
 Supervision/ICR
 FY02                                                                     0.00
 FY03                                            11                      96.86
 FY04                                            21                     233.04



                                            25
FY05        39   266.63
FY06        24   141.38
FY07        48   206.99
FY08         6   139.42




       26
      Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A




                          27
      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                 28
      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This annex provides a brief English summary of the borrower’s ICR as well as a large
extract of the Borrower contribution in the original French language. A full copy of the
original contribution is available in project files (IRIS),

A.          Summary of the Borrower’s ICR (BICR). The BICR is of the opinion that
despite the delays experienced in the implementation of the project, the achievement of
the project’s objectives has been satisfactory. This was possible thanks to the sustained
support of the World Bank.

The strengthening of the capacities of the government of Chad was necessary to the
improvement of policies, abilities and institutions, but could not be implemented because
component 4 of the project was too often restructured.

Component 1: Maintenance of electricity services in N’Djamena and in secondary
centers.
        New power station and rehabilitation of existing units in N’Djamena: The
         construction of a new diesel power station of 20MW was dropped from the
         project;
        New power stations and rehabilitation of existing units in secondary centers:
         No activity in the secondary centers was implemented.
        Rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network in N’Djamena and
         secondary centers: The power station and the networks of the town of Doba
         have been completed. For all other centers, the equipment and materials have
         been delivered but could not be installed because the bidding process was not
         successful and could not be re-launched. As a result, the connections to
         existing and future consumers could not be installed.
        Rehabilitation of public lighting: This sub-component was not implemented
         because the memorandum of understanding between STEE and the
         municipality was not signed.
        Purchase of spare parts, tools and small equipment: Some small equipment
         and network tools were acquired.
        Studies on the importation of heavy fuel/Assessment of the new generating
         units: No activity under this sub-component was undertaken which could be
         explained by the fact that no decision on the importation of heavy fuel oil had
         been taken.

Component 2: Maintenance of water services in N’Djamena and secondary centers.
      Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the water production and distribution in
        N’Djamena: Despite the suspension of Bank disbursements that disrupted the
        work on the distribution network, important progress has been achieved
        particularly in water production (e.g. 13 deep wells have been dug, most
        pumping stations and three water chlorination plants were open). The
        installation of a 100 km of pipes was interrupted soon after the work started
        because the contractor could not be paid as a result of Credit suspension.


                                            29
           Almost all the equipment has however been delivered in N’Djamena. Since
           the work on the pipes has been suspended, no new connections could be
           installed.
          Rehabilitation and Extension of the water production and distribution
           facilities in secondary centers: Only some urgent activities could be
           undertaken such as the digging of four new deep wells in four secondary
           centers and the acquisition of twelve small diesel sets for pumping.
          Capacity building for the Direction Technique de l’Hydraulique (DTH): An
           international engineering consultant was recruited to supervise the work
           related to the installation of the drilling equipment and civil work. However,
           because of the delays in implementation its contract had run out while the
           mission …... The DTH also received assistance from a local consultant in the
           preparation of the bidding document for the installation of a 100-km pipeline.

Component 3: Improvement in the technical, financial and environmental
performance of STEE.
       Some equipment and software were acquired while others were not due to the
         suspension of the Credit and other factors.
       The government has reimbursed the project for the 23 vehicles of the project it
         requisitioned.

Component 4: External assessments, studies, operating costs of the PIU
      Financial and regulatory restructuring of the electricity and water sectors:
        Technical assistance, equipment and software were provided under this
        component.
      Preparatory studies to Phase 2: This could not be completed because of the
        suspension of the Credit by the Bank.
      Strengthening of the operational capacity of the PIU: The rehabilitation of the
        offices of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Energy as well as the
        parking of this Ministry have been completed.

It is important to note that the Project owes 1 272 153 739 FCFA to various providers
(Credit as well as STEE counterpart funds).

Assessment of Bank performance: The management of the project went well thanks to
the financing provided by IDA.

The regular supervision missions were instrumental in correcting deviations.

Lesson learned:

It is important to stress that the situation of uncertainty that the project has known for
more than two years prevented it from achieving the expected results.

B. Extract from the French original



                                              30





    31
32
33
34
35
36
      Annex 8.   Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      37
                 Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Note
2. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 24112 CD, August 2002
3. Aide-Memoires, ISRs and internal memoranda




                                     38
