Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 16470-KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
May 15, 1997
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(after May 10, 1993)
Currency Unit    =    Som
I Som    =    100 Tiying
EXCHANGE RATES
Som per US$ 1.0
Avera2e          End of Period
December 1993              6.0                 8.3
December 1994             11.0                10.6
December 1995              10.8               11.2
December 1996              15.7               16.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
APEAC   -  Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustrnent Credit
ASSP  -  Agricultural Support Services Project
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CUS   -  Credit Union System
DE  -  Development Entrepreneur
EU-TACIS  -  European Union - Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
FINSAC   -  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSO   -  Farmers' Self-Help Organization
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GTZ   -  German Technical Assistance Agency
IDA   -  International Development Association
IDF  -  Institutional Development Facility
IRP  -  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
KAFC   -  Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
MAF  -  Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MAWR   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MCO   -  Mobile Credit Officer
NBK   -  National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
RA   -  Regional Administration
RCC   -  Rural Credit Cooperative
RFP  -  Rural Finance Project
RFI  -  Rural Financial Internediary
PDP  -  Pilot Demonstration Project
PESAC   -  Privatization and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit
SDC   -  Swiss Development Credit
SDP  -  Sheep Development Project
SFCOP  -  Small Farmers' Credit Outreach Program
SMCO   -  Senior Mobile Credit Officer
TA   -  Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director:  Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief:  Michael A. Gould, EC3AI
Responsible Staff:  Barnabas K. Zegge (Task Manager); Mohinder S. Mudahar (Principal Economist);
L.X. Pohlmeier (Sr. Financial Analyst); Jacob Intrator (Consultant); Tamara Duggleby,
(Consultant); Hamza Fellah (Consultant); Manilena Payos (Consultant); Sarina Abdysheva
(Operations Officer); and Sabrina Sally (Staff Assistant).  Pervaiz Rashid (Financial
Adviser, EC3DR) provided technical advice.



ii
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Contents
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...........................1
A.   THE FARMING SECTOR ..........................                                                                                               I
B.    AGRIBUSINESS SECTOR ..........................                                                                                            2
II.   RURAL FINANCE SYSTEM ..........................                                                    .                                                   4
A.           THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ..............................................                                                                4
B.           THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM ..............................................                                                  4
C.           THE RURAL FINANCE SYSTEM ..............................................                                                            5
D.           GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR RURAL FINANCE ..............................................  7
E.           RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ..............................................                                                       7
F.           BANK EXPERIENCE IN RURAL FINANCE ..............................................                                                    8
III. THE PROJECT ............ I 0
A.           PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................                                                                10
B.           SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..............................................                                                       10
C.           DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES .............................................. I I
(I)          THE KAFC COMPONENT ..............................................                                                   11
(11)         PILOT SFCOP COMPONENT ..............................................                                                 15
(III)        THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK ..................................... 19
D.           PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................                                                       23
E.           PROCUREMENT ..............................................                                                                       24
F.    DISBURSEMENTS ...........................                                                                                               26
G.    PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ........................... 27
H.    REPORTING AND MONITORING ...........................                                                                                    27
1.    MID-TERM REVIEW ...........................                                                                                              27
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                              ......................... 28
A.           IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY ..........................................                                                               28
B.           KAFC LENDING PROGRAM MANAGEMENT ..........................................                                                        28
C.           SFCOP MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................                                                      29
D.           PROJECT SUPERVISION ..........................................                                                                   30
E.           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ..........................................                                                      30
F.           COORDINATION WITH OTHER MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS ................................. 30



iii
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS    .                                                     ............................ 33
A.  BENEFITS..............I    33
B.        JUSTIFICATION .............................,..,,,,,,,,...........,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,..,,,,,..,,..,,..,,.,,,,,,,,,,34
C.  SUSTAINABILITY ......                                                                                            36
D.        IMPACT ON POVERTY .........................................37
E.  FISCAL IMPACT ..............                                                                                     37
F.  RISKS ..............                                                                                             37
G.   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ................                                                                           38
VI. ISSUES AND ACTIONS AGREED .                                                                                                40
ANNEXES
A         Plan of Action for Policy and Institutional Changes ........................................... 42
B         KAFC  Organizational Structure ..............................................                             44
C         Terms of Reference for Expatriate Consultants Required for KAFC .................. 45
D         Comments and Recommendations of KAFC  Statutes ......................................... 50
E         Terms of Reference for SFCOP Program  Manager ............................................. 53
F          SFCOP Loan Application Form ....................                                                          54
G          SFCOP Loan Agreement ...............................                                                     56
H         Project Objectives and Monitorable Indicators ...............................                             58
X Schedule of Project Supervision ...............................                                                   59
J    Disbursement Schedule ................                                                                          60
TABLES
3.1   Summary of Project Costs ................                                                                      24
3.2    Project Financing Plan ........................                                                               24
3.3    Summary of Procurement Methods ........................ 25
5.1        Farm Credit Requirement Estimates ........................                                                35
5.2        Summary of Monthly Internal Rates of Return Analysis ........................                              36
BOXES
I         Rural Credit Best Practices in the Kyrgyz Republic ...................................,.,,.,.16
2         Eligibility Criteria for Participation in the SFCOP by Farmers ........................... 17
3         FSO Major Characteristics ..........................                                                      18
4          FSO Role in Implementing the SFCOP...............                                               ........... 19
5         Eligibility Criteria for DEs ..........................                                                   20
6         Role of DEs in Implementing SFCOP ..........................,.,,,.,.,.21



iv
APPENDICES
I         Project Cost Tables ............................................                                      61
2         Project Implementation Schedule ............................................                          68
3         Sources of Data and Assumptions Made on the Farm  Models ............................ 70
4         Farm  Rates of Return Analysis ............................................                           71
MAP
IBRD No. 26822R






KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Kyrgyz Republic.
Implementing Agency:       Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC).
Beneficiaries:             Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation;
Department for Small Farmers' Credit Outreach Program in KAFC.
Poverty:                   Outreach Program will target poor farming households at or around the
poverty line.
Amount:                    US$16.0 million equivalent (SDR 11.9 million).
Terms:                     IDA terms, with 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:            0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:           A subsidiary loan to KAFC will bear interest rates that fully reflect the
rates of inflation projected by the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK)
at the time of withdrawal, with a 15-year maturity, including 5 years of
grace. The Borrower will invest part of the Credit proceeds into
KAFC's equity capital. KAFC will onlend to final beneficiaries or
intermediaries at positive interest rates plus a margin of 5 to 8 percent,
with a maximum maturity of 10 years, including three years of grace.
Proceeds of the Credit to the Outreach Program would be on grant
basis, but terms and conditions for subloans under the program will be
similar to those of KAFC.
Financing Plan:            See Table 3.2.
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:    16470-KG
Map:                       IBRD 26822R
Project ID Number:         KG-PA 8520






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.    THE FARMING SECTOR
1.01   Agriculture is important in the Kyrgyz economy as it accounts for about 30 percent of GDP and
approximately one-third of employment. An additional 10 percent of the labor force is employed in
agriculture-related industries, mostly agribusiness enterprises. Agribusiness activities add to the overall
impact of agriculture to account for over 50 percent of GDP.
1.02   Irrigation is critical for agriculture, covering over 80 percent of arable land. The main crops
grown are wheat, barley, maize, cotton, tobacco, sugar beet, sunflower, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, and
fodder crops. Winter wheat is the dominant cereal crop, accounting for over 40 percent of the area
usually under grains. Livestock production contributes significantly to total agricultural production. The
major livestock products are meat, milk, wool and eggs.
1.03   Agricultural output in the last two years has shown significant recovery. Indeed, recovery in
agricultural output in 1996 exceeded expectations. Agricultural output increased by 13 percent in real
terms, compared to the overall GDP growth of 5 percent in 1996. The major sources of agricultural
growth were wheat, potato, cotton, and vegetables. This recovery in agricultural growth was largely due
to expansion in cultivated area, changes in cropping patterns (shift from fodder to grain production), and
favorable weather conditions. Also recent farm studies indicate that profitability in some of these crops
and dairy farming has improved and the prospects for further improvements appear good in the coming
years as markets become more competitive. Crop profitability is improving much faster in small private
farms than on large public sector farms. Most public sector farms continue to operate with losses. Also,
most livestock production remains generally less profitable than crop production, largely because prices
for most livestock products have remained depressed.
1.04   Despite the implementation of the ongoing economic reforms and the recent recovery in output,
farm productivity and profitability continue to face major constraints. The constraints include limited
supply of critical inputs, lack of competitive markets, lack of appropriate technical packages and
advisory services for private farmers, lack of credit for private farmers, and existence of inefficient farm
structures. The last constraint is particularly important because it is a precondition for improved farm
productivity and profitability. Farm  restructuring is still an unfinished agenda.  To date, farm
restructuring has taken a variety of forms which include the emergence of: (a) private individual peasant
farms (23,000); (b) family farming associations (1,500); collective farms (540); state farms (320); and
joint-stock farm enterprises (15). By the end of 1996, it was estimated that private sector farms
accounted for over 60 percent of the land held by agricultural enterprises. The remainder was still in the
hands of public sector farms.
1.05   To sustain and accelerate the apparent recovery in agriculture, Government needs to address at
least the following four issues: (a) farm restructuring, which has slowed down, should be accelerated to
promote the emergence of efficient farms; (b) price and market distortions should be eliminated
(especially at the local level and any inter-oblast trade restrictions); (c) access to credit by private farm



2
and agribusiness enterprises should be ensured to promote farm investments and the development of
competitive farm markets; and (d) provision of technical advisory services and new productivity-
enhancing technologies should be given high priority.
1.06   Despite the recent recovery in agricultural growth, poverty has increased significantly over the
last three years. The proportion of households considered poor increased from 40 percent in 1993 to 49
percent in 1996. The poverty gap index, which measures the difference between the poverty line and the
household's actual expenditure levels, doubled from 12 percent in 1993 to 24 percent in 1996. The
proportion of the very poor households, those which spend less than half of their poverty line
expenditures, virtually remained the same at 25 percent over the period. Poverty alleviation will require
specific measures which target the poor as primary beneficiaries. The proposed project's Small Farmers'
Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) would target households at, or slightly above the poverty line, while
Kyrgyz Agricultural Credit Corporation's (KAFC) lending program and Asian Development Bank's
(ADB) credit unions program would be exclusively targeted at households well above the poverty line.
The very poor households would be targeted by the proposed Kyrgyz People's Initiative Project which is
being prepared for financing by the Bank and other donors.
B.    AGRIBUSINESS SECTOR
1.07   Since independence in 1992, agro-processing has dramatically declined in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The sector remains in a serious crisis, despite government privatization effort which has resulted in the
emergence of numerous private agribusinesses. A survey (1996) of agribusiness enterprises conducted
during the preparation of this project, revealed that the expected surge in private agribusiness activities,
leading to the development of competitive markets, has not materialized out of the recent liberalization
and privatization programs of the Government. Emerging private enterprises are facing considerable
commercial risks and relatively high costs for goods and services (including finance) which weaken their
scope to participate and compete in markets. The weak financial markets have been deleterious to the
development of private agribusiness in the country. The poor state of the banking sector has inhibited
the capacity of private agribusiness enterprises to respond effectively to the production and market
opportunities being created by liberalization policies. Private small agribusiness enterprises have very
limited access to formal sources of credit and face high collateral requirements and limited term finance
options. Also equally limiting is the dearth of agribusiness management skills as a result of the past
dominance of processing and marketing state enterprises.
1.08   The agribusiness survey (1996) also revealed the following to be the most critical issues in the
agribusiness sector in the Kyrgyz Republic today:
(a)    Lack of working capital for raw materials. Agro-processing plants or enterprises do not
have cash to pay farmers for their produce during the harvest/marketing season. This
has led farmers to sell their produce to small traders for cash or bartered goods, leaving
most agro-processing plants without raw materials;
(b)    Lack of capital for renovation of equipment and machinery. Machinery and equipment
replacement or renovation is required in most of the agro-processing plants, especially in
food processing industries, to improve efficiency and product quality;
(c)    Lack of capital for financing inventory and receivables. The time required to hold a
finished product in storage prior to actual sale is relatively longer in the Kyrgyz market



3
where market information is not readily available to potential buyers. This requires
financing or else it forces the producing firm to sell on cash basis; and
(d)    Lack of working capital for farm  inputs supply. Major farm  inputs, like fertilizers,
seeds, and livestock drugs are generally not traded or retailed by local stockists or
dealers and distributors because of lack of working capital.
1.09   The proposed project would address  some of these issues by providing eligible private
agribusiness enterprises with access to short term loans.



4
II.    RURAL FINANCE SYSTEM
A.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.01   The financial sector in the Kyrgyz Republic suffers from the legacy of the Soviet past and the early
transitional efforts. The banking structure has until recently been dominated by four former state-owned
banks -- Agroprom, Promstroi, AKB Kyrgyzstan and Elbank -- that accounted for 80 percent of the banking
sector assets and were highly insolvent due to bad debt. Slowly growing segment of newer, market-oriented
banks are still quite fragile. The newly emerging capital markets are insufficient to meet the needs of a
market system which is developing rapidly in response to the successful enterprise privatization. At
present, the Kyrgyz banking system consists of NBK, the central bank, and 16 commercial banks. There are
also a number of non-bank financial institutions. These include 17 investment funds, 30 insurance
companies, a stock exchange (KSE), a Coupon (privatization) Trading Center (CTC), and one significant
state-owned and two smaller private pension funds.
2.02   After the break up of the Soviet Union, inflation in the Kyrgyz Republic accelerated rapidly and,
over a relatively short period, the real value of bank deposits was massively eroded by negative real interest
rates. Following the introduction of the national currency, the Som, in 1993, considerable success has been
achieved in macro-financial stability.  The traditional policy of directed credits to enterprises and
agriculture continued officially until early 1994. Most of this lending covered losses or was to maintain
employment and was not undertaken on the basis of commercial criteria and was largely funded by the
NBK. During 1994, deposit and credit interest rates were liberalized, directed credits were discontinued,
refinance credit auctions were temporarily suspended, and domestic bank financing of the budget deficit
was sharply curtailed. The tight monetary stance since 1994 succeeded in bringing inflation down from
over 1000 percent per year in 1992, to around 35 percent in 1996. Interest rates have followed a similar
path, with real interest rates declining from over 200 percent in 1994 to around 25 percent in 1996.
2.03   The successful implementation of the stabilization program has revealed the structural and financial
weaknesses of the state enterprises, and at the same time, uncovered the portfolio problems of the
commercial banks. The decisive tightening of monetary policy not only cut the commercial banks' access to
NBK resources but also uncovered the extent of bad loans in the sector. In 1995, the non-performing loans
represented almost the entire portfolio of Agroprom as well as Elbank, the former Sberbank. In AKB
Kyrgyzstan and Promstroi, non-performing loans accounted for more than half of their portfolios. The
survival of the big formerly state-owned banks has been possible only because of specially negotiated terms
for the NBK debt and because of exemption from prudential regulations. The intermediation role of the
financial system has been severely constrained by these non-performing loans.
2.04   There has also been a wide-spread lack of confidence in the financial system. Past experience has
been dominated by dramatic loss in the real value of deposits and by periodic instances of difficulties in
withdrawing deposits. The failure of Kyrgyz banks to mobilize deposits is clearly linked to the sector's
insolvency problems. A further factor inhibiting deposit mobilization has been the practice, until recently,
of seizing the deposits of those believed to be in arrears on tax payments. In sum, the existing financial
system has until recently been incapable of performing the fundamental role of mobilizing deposits and
transforming those into loans.
B.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
2.05   Following successful stabilization and major reforms in the key real sectors, it became clear that, at
this stage of the country's economic transformation process, a more stable and efficient financial sector,



5
with an effective banking system at its core, would be essential to help sustain macroeconomic stability,
stimulate savings mobilization, support output recovery and expansion, and enhance the development of the
private sector.
2.06   A comprehensive Financial Sector Reform Program, therefore, supported by a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FfNSAC) from IDA (US$45 million) was launched in June, 1996. The Reform
Program supported by FINSAC focuses on: (i) the creation of a policy and regulatory environment
conducive to the sound growth of a competitive and efficient private banking system; (ii) the liquidation of
the two dominant and insolvent state-owned banks: Agroprombank and Elbank, which, through their
practices, stifle the growth of their young private competitors; (iii) the downsizing and financial
restructuring through private re-capitalization of two large and insolvent former state banks: Promstroi and
AKB Kyrgyzstan Banks; (iv) the establishment of a temporary Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) to help
collect, restructure, sell or write off the old non-performing loans, and thus accelerate enterprise
restructuring or liquidation in the process; and (v) the creation of a regulatory and supervisory framework,
and supporting policies and infrastructure, for the development and growth of emerging non-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs).
2.07   The successful implementation of this Reform Program, already underway, will lead to the creation
of an initially smaller, but more solvent and efficient private banking system, capable of providing a broader
range of financial services to both borrowers and savers. In the rural areas, Agroprom bank and the existing
system of poorly-managed directed credit programs will initially be superseded by a better managed,
temporary rural finance system, funded by budgetary resources and donor assistance, and over the longer
term, by a commercially viable thus sustainable, system of rural banking and cooperatives. In the enterprise
sector, private enterprises will be served by smaller private sector banks, better regulated by sound
prudential norms, and equipped with sound credit policies and trained staff. The establishment of equity
markets is already underway, and will over time lead to more active trading of the shares of private
enterprises, thus contributing to better enterprise governance. The development and enforcement of a sound
regulatory and supervisory framework will enhance the efficiency and security of financial institutions; help
restore public confidence in the financial system; and encourage the emergence and expansion of non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs).
C.    THE RURAL FINANCE SYSTEM
2.08   Until 1994, rural financing was dominated by the state owned Agroprombank. The demise of
this institution has left the rural sector without an institutional lender. In response to this void,
Government has decided to establish a commercially oriented and operationally autonomous credit
agency, the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC), and to begin the long-term development
of a community-based ruralfinance system (para. 3.01).
2.09   In the wake of the Agroprombank's closing in 1994, Government has channeled "credit" to
farmers through the Regional Administration (oblast and rayon akiamiat), whereby loans have been
administered by regional and district authorities. Later in 1995, several Rural Credit Cooperatives
(RCCs) were established among farmers under the directive of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
(MAF). These approaches have had dismal results, in terms of credit reaching the target groups and of
loan repayment. Most of the funds were channeled to state and collective farms which have close
relations with the local administration. Private farmers have had no access to this credit. The RCCs are
not viable as social and economic entities. They do not command member loyalty as they are regarded
as part of the local government.



6
2.10   In addition to the Government credit program, seven donor-sponsored rural credit schemes are
active. These include schemes sponsored by TACIS, US-Kyrgyz Joint Agricultural Commission,
CARITASlHELVETAS, GTZ, FINCA, Kyrgyz Agricultural Company, and  an IDA-sponsored pilot
Peoples Development Project. These schemes, except GTZ, have concentrated on short-term lending for
seasonal inputs. The total amount of lending under these schemes is estimated at less than US$1.5
million per season. These various schemes have adopted diverse mechanisms for lending, recovering
loans, and managing risks. Lending through groups (as opposed to group lending) is the preferred
mechanism among the schemes. All schemes are achieving commendable loan recoveries, ranging
between 70 and 100 percent. The scope and geographical coverage of each credit scheme is extremely
limited. The total amount of informal credit is unknown. It is, however, estimated that less than 12
percent of the private farmers are currently participating in the donor-sponsored credit schemes.
2.11   While reasonable progress is being made, under the donor-sponsored schemes, to establish
informal and formal credit organizations, no attention has been given to the promotion of savings
mobilization. Consequently, FINCA and the Asian Development Bank, have had to start from scratch in
their attempt to promote voluntary savings and credit groups in the form of "village banks" and credit
unions, respectively.
2.12   Some private farmers are using informal and semi-formal credit mechanisms for procuring farm
inputs and working capital. These include, trader-provided credit in form of inputs which are repaid with
pre-negotiated shares of the production of a farm product; farmer to farmer credit in cash or kind to
enable poorer farmers procure essential farm inputs; and government-provided credit in-kind (fertilizers,
seed, fuel) in exchange for delivery of wheat at harvest.
2.13   Superior credit repayment performance, under the various credit schemes, is associated with
individual borrowing within groups which have been voluntarily established to provide individual
members with access to institutional credit.  Such groups include village or regional farmers'
associations and credit groups. Credit repayment tends to improve when credit is offered and used as
part of a technical package being sponsored by a "partnership of stakeholders" (e.g., farmers, credit
agency, and farm extension service staff). Similarly, credit repayment performance tends to improve
when individual loan applications are screened and endorsed, and repayment is enforced by a self-
selected farmer group.  This approach appears to mitigate the problems of imperfect borrower
information and repayment enforcement. Groups established voluntarily are more cohesive (in the
sociological sense) and share a higher degree of mutual trust than those established under covert duress,
for example, the RCCs groups.
2.14   To succeed the credit schemes or local intermediaries initially must inculcate and enforce a
"credit -repayment-culture" among the borrowing group to dispel the legacy of rampant non-repayment
culture under the Agroprombank and the government credit programs. This process requires the
adoption of effective repayment mechanisms and training of members. Threats to cut off borrower's
future access to credit and peer pressure have proved to be effective sanctions to induce prompt and full
repayment.
2.15   Provision of credit-in-kind appears to be a popular and effective mechanism for credit risk
management among the schemes. Several credit schemes with superior recovery rates have adopted this
mechanism. Joint and several guarantees or group responsibility for each other's loan does not appear to
be popular or consistent with the Kyrgyz culture.



7
2.16   Barter-based lending makes the lending interest rate structure less transparent.  Some
government commodity-based credit schemes have (implicit) high real interest rates which farmers have
been willingly paying. Nominal annual interest rates charged by various rural credit schemes ranged
between 12 and 39 percent during the 1995/96 crop season. It is noteworthy that some of these rates
were positive in real terms and yet they did not adversely affect credit recovery rates, given the
prevailing state of generally low farm profitability. The interest rates indicate the scope for positive
interest rates as a few credit schemes were charging interest rates in excess of the inflation rate (35.0
percent) in 1996. The wide variations in lending interest rate among the rural credit schemes also
indicates the presence of market segmentation within the rural finance system in the country. This is
mainly because most credit schemes are location-specific and are surrounded by imperfect information.
2.17   Despite the impressive growth of farmers' associations (82 in 1996) in the last two years, most of
them are not yet ready to function as effective financial intermediaries. For them to assume this role,
intensive training of their voluntary staff and establishment of satisfactory accounting systems would be
absolutely necessary. Lenders, like KAFC, should help with this training if they want to make use of
these associations as intermediaries.
D.    GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR RURAL FINANCE
2.18   The findings of a Rural Finance Survey (1996) conducted during the preparation of this project,
indicate that prospects for establishing a commercially viable rural finance system are good. The process
would require a combination of "top-down" and "bottom-up" approach. In 1996, the State Commission
on Rural Finance, endorsed a Rural Finance Strategy (prepared by an inter-agency Working Group with
IDA technical assistance) which embraces this approach. In the short-term, Government has established
a new interim credit agency, the KAFC, to manage the delivery of credit to the nascent private farming
and agribusiness sectors during the transition. KAFC will be professionally managed and will operate
with full autonomy through an independent Board of Directors. In the medium and long-term,
Government intends to establish an institutional framework for providing financial services to rural
communities on a commercially sustainable basis. This intention will be achieved through the promotion
of community-based and managed financial institutions. These community financial institutions will be
operated on the basis of cooperative principles, emphasizing self-help, democracy, and cost-
effectiveness. Technical assistance will be required for KAFC and the community financial institutions.
The proposed project would be the first phase for implementing this strategy.
E.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.19   IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board during the presentation of the
Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) on June 28, 1995 is focused on
four priority areas: adjustment lending, agricultural/natural resource management, energy, and social
sectors. Recovery in the agricultural sector is a critical element of IDA's assistance program for
economic growth and poverty reduction. Within the CAS framework, IDA's assistance strategy for the
rural sector consists of policy-based lending in support of structural reforms and investment lending in
key sector. Structural reform credits with relevance to agriculture include: (a) the Privatization and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) which initiated liberalization of trade policies and the
price system, and the improvement of the regulatory framework for private sector development; (b) the
APEAC which deepens market and pricing liberalization in agriculture and fosters the development of
competitive markets through enterprise privatization and private sector development; (c) an Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) grant to facilitate government infrastructures in land reform and farm
restructuring; and (d) the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) to restructure the banking sector



8
and make it competitive. Building on the policy framework established under these operations, the
proposed Rural Finance Project would provide emergency private farm and agribusiness enterprises
access to financial resources to exploit the production and market opportunities being created by the
reform programs.
2.20   In addition to the above policy-based operations, IDA's investment resulting in agriculture
include the following operations: (a) Sheep Development Project (SDP), which recently became
effective, and which aims to privatize, and increase profitability, efficiency and to increase export-
orientation in the sheep industry; (b) Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), planned for FY98,
which would establish adaptive research and advisory services, and support farm restructuring; (c) to be
followed by a Land Registration Project in FY99 for emerging private farmers and it would restructure
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources to become a service-provider under market-economy
conditions; (d) Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP), planned for FY98, which would provide for
rehabilitation and maintenance of the major irrigation infrastructure and it would be followed by an On-
Farm Irrigation Project in FY2000 to support on-farm irrigation investments and services; (e) People's
Initiative Project, planned for FY98, would provide for establishment of an institutional framework for
enabling the poorest to have access to financial services; and (f) Rural Finance Project (RFP) would
establish an institutional framework for commercially sustainable delivery of credit to private farmers
and agribusiness enterprises in the short and long-term. RFP would complement the existing and
proposed investments in the agricultural sector under IDA's assistance program.
F.     BANK EXPERIENCE IN RURAL FINANCE
2.21   Bank experience in supporting rural finance projects has been generally unsatisfactory in the
past. Until recently, the Bank's support to rural finance was based on an active role for government
through direct interventions such as subsidized interest rates and state-owned and controlled rural
financial institutions. This approach did not succeed in achieving the goals of income expansion and
poverty alleviation. In recent years, the Bank has adopted a "new approach" in rural finance. This
involves a minimalist market-oriented role for government, and places emphasis on creating a favorable
policy environment and a supportive legal and regulatory framework for rural financial intermediation.
2.22   The "new approach" has given rise to a growing number of successful rural financial institutions
which provide potentially replicable or adaptable methodologies. The most important elements for
successful development of a rural finance system include the following:
* Appropriate governance, including clearly defined and enforced powers and responsibilities
of decision-making entities and individuals;
* Management must have autonomy and accountability for operational decisions;
* Clients' interests must be fully represented;
* Clearly defined strategies and objectives;
* Motivated and skilled staff, and staff training and incentives aimed at improved
performance;
* Innovative low-cost mechanisms and procedures for credit delivery, including mobile-
banking in remote areas and group lending;
* Positive lending interest rates and high repayment rates;
* Risk diversification through lending to both agricultural and non-agricultural activities, and
geographic diversification; and
* Excellent management information system (MIS) which enables the monitoring of loans,
individual client records and staff performance.



9
2.23   Taking the above experience into account, the proposed project's design features include the
following:
*  KAFC charter provides for operational autonomy through the board of directors and all
operational decisions would be made by the management (para. 3.05);
*  KAFC would be adequately capitalized and would have financial autonomy once it is fully
capitalized in the third year of operation (para. 3.07);
*  KAFC charter provides for eventual participation of the private sector in its ownership
(Annex D);
*  Responsibility and accountability of key management positions in KAFC (including those
held by consultants) have been clearly defined (Annex B and C);
*  KAFC would observe prudential norms that are normally required for commercial financing
or banking institutions (para. 3.06);
*  KAFC's objectives and strategies are commercially oriented and would be constantly
updated through revisions of its corporate plans (paras. 3.09 - 3.14);
* KAFC would lend at positive interest rates right from the start (para. 3.12);
* The expatriate financial controller would design and implement an effective computer-based
management information system (Annex C);
* SFCOP would be demand-driven and its implementation would be based on beneficiary
participation (para. 4.01);
* SFCOP would be implemented on a pilot basis to permit some flexibility to learn and
eventually lead to establishment of rural financial intermediaries (paras. 3.01 and 4.01); and
* innovative low-cost credit delivery mechanisms and procedures, including mobile credit
teams in KAFC field offices, screening of loan applications and repayment enforcement by
farmers' organizations.



10
III.   THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.01   The proposed project has two primary objectives: (a) in the short-term, it would establish an
interim institutional arrangement for lending to the agricultural and agribusiness sectors which presently
have no access to commercial bank credit; and (b) in the medium and long-term, it would provide the
basis for developing community-based financial services for the rural population. The former objective
would be implemented through the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC). The latter
objective would be implemented through a Small Farmers Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP). This
program would be implemented on a pilot basis to permit the necessary flexibility to learn and
eventually would lead to the establishment of rural financial intermediaries (RFIs) based on cooperative
principles. SFCOP would test specific mechanisms for credit delivery to poor households and develop
self-help organizations to facilitate poor household's access to commercial credit and other financial
services. These objectives have been translated into monitorable performance indicators (Annex D).
B.    SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.02   KAFC Component. Support for KAFC, recently established to replace the moribund
Agroprombank (currently under liquidation within the FINSAC framework), would aim to enable KAFC
to provide credit on commercial terms to support the ongoing process of farm restructuring, agribusiness
enterprise privatization, and private sector development in the rural sector. The project would provide a
line of credit of US$13.0 million equivalent, to support KAFC' s lending operations. During the first two
years of operation, KAFC would provide short-term/seasonal working capital loans only to private
farmers and agribusiness enterprises. Later, it would also provide medium/long-term investment loans
for on-farm and agribusiness development, given excellent performance with short-term lending.
Support for KAFC's institutional development for capacity building and implementation support is being
provided through grant funds from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and the European Union
TACIS.
3.03   SFCOP Component. Support for this pilot component would begin the process of establishing
an institutional framework for providing rural financial services on a commercially sustainable basis in
the rural areas (para. 1.06). This process would, initially, involve promotion of Farmers' Self-Help
Organizations (FSOs) and, eventually during the second phase, the establishment of Rural Financial
Intermediaries (RFIs). The promotion of FSOs would involve the following steps: (i) the Borrower
would contract KAFC to implement SFCOP; (ii) KAFC would establish a separate Department to
administer SFCOP; (iii) the Department would contract two or three Development Entrepreneurs (DEs)
to act as financial intermediaries and promoters of FSOs. The DEs would be private firms or NGOs with
the requisite qualifications and experience. They will promote the establishment of FSOs and lend the
funds administered by KAFC to individual farmers who are members of the FSOs. An FSO would be a
(pre-cooperative) group of private farmers pursuing economic objectives, but operating without a joint
enterprise. This means that members of an FSO would borrow as individuals through the group. There
would no group borrowing or lending under the FSOs. FSOs would place their main emphasis on
acquiring economic benefits through self-help in a group and mutual assistance. In contrast to FSOs,
RFIs would be fully-fledged cooperatives operating with a joint (cooperative) enterprise capable of
carrying out financial intermediation. RFIs would emphasize the acquiring of economic benefits by
continuous collaboration organized through a joint enterprise. SFCOP would be limited to providing



11
support to the promotion of FSOs only, but it would not support the promotion of RFIs which would
commence later. The project would support SFCOP's lending program of US$2.0 million equivalent.
3.04   Institutional and Policy Framework. The project would support priority technical assistance
under the KAFC and SFCOP components, and promote institutional, legal and policy changes or
innovations which would directly enhance successful achievement of the project objectives. Institutional
improvements would involve revision of the KAFC charter, adoption of an appropriate corporate and
management structure for KAFC, and adoption of appropriate operational policies and procedures for
KAFC. Legal improvements would consist of establishing a legal framework to facilitate the
development of FSOs into fully-fledged local financial intermediaries. Policy changes would comprise
implementation of actions to rationalize the provision of budgetary support to the agricultural credit
program.  The major agricultural credit policy and institutional issues and proposed actions are
summarized in Annex A.
C.    DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
I.    The KAFC Component
3.05   KAFC Establishment and Management. KAFC was established by a Government Decree No.
303 of July 2, 1996 and was formally registered as a joint stock company in December 1996. KAFC was
licensed in March 1997 and is supervised by the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK) as a non-bank
financial institution. KAFC must observe the rules and regulations applicable to banks on capital
adequacy ratio, exposure limits, classification of loan portfolio, and provisioning and other prudential
rules and instructions prescribed by NBK. KAFC's charter incorporates operational and financial
autonomy through a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors consists of three members representing
the Government (currently the sole shareholder) and three members representing the private sector (the
charter provides for private sector's participation in KAFC). The seventh member of the Board is the
Executive Director of KAFC.  When Government ceases to be the majority shareholder in the
corporation, the Board would be elected at the annual shareholders' general meeting. KAFC would,
initially, have three departments for Credit, Finance, and Personnel and Training.  The Credit
Department, headed by a Credit Manager, would be responsible for lending and loan portfolio
management. All field offices and staff would be under the Credit Department. KAFC has started
lending operations in all six oblast. Each oblast office has one senior credit officer (in-charge) assisted by
two credit officers. These constitute the mobile team which , currently, is responsible for collecting and
appraising credit applications from both farmers and agribusinesses. Applications which have good
prospects for succeeding are sent to KAFC head office where they are evaluated by a Loan Committee,
chaired by the Executive Managing Director. Each field office would be provide with a small rented
office in the former Agroprombank branch office. Each field office would be equipped with at least one
four-wheel drive vehicle, one PC, and a telephone/fax. KAFC would closely monitor the performance of
the field offices to ensure financial viability and to ascertain that the number of clients and volume of
lending justify maintaining a permanent field office. The Finance Department would be responsible for
efficient management of the corporation's financial resources, accounting and management information
system. The Personnel and Training Department would be responsible for personnel and training
functions, including staff recruitment and training, public relations, and personnel and staff benefits
policy.
3.06   KAFC Financial Parameters. KAFC's initial lending operations will be haunted by the legacy
of credit non-repayment culture that has been nurtured by Agroprombank and the Government
agricultural credit programs. Against this background, KAFC would need to establish quickly a



12
reputation for financial integrity and excellent performance of its loan portfolio. This would require,
among other things, establishing a sound financial basis and adhering to sound business principles. For
this purpose, KAFC would adhere to the following financial requirements: (a) the capital to risk assets
ratio would be maintained at 33 percent but, with satisfactory loan recovery performance, would
gradually be allowed to fall to a minimum of 25 percent; (b) the maximum loan size for an individual or
corporate borrower would be limited to 10 percent of the paid-up capital, or US$250,000, whichever is
smaller; and (c) the minimum debt service ratio, acceptable to KAFC, would be 1:1.5, calculated
conservatively to take into account tax liabilities and any existing obligation to DEBRA and other
lenders; (d) KAFC would maintain its loan recovery performance at 75 percent or above. During
negotiations, it was understood that these financial requirements will be incorporated in the Subsidiary
Loan and Equity Investment Agreement between KAFC and the Government and in the Lending
Operational Manual.
3.07   KAFC Capitalization. To start with a strong financial basis, KAFC would be adequately
capitalized. The initial registered share capital of KAFC would be US$10.0 million equivalent, but this
would be increased in line with the envisaged rapid increase in lending. Government would provide,
until June 30, 1997, som 7.0 million, or US$412,000, as its initial contribution to the share capital. In
addition, for the first US$2.0 million equivalent withdrawn by KAFC from the IDA Credit account, and
for 25 percent of all subsequent withdrawals, KAFC would issue shares to Government. The total
amount of share contributions by Government from the proceeds of the IDA Credit would not exceed
US$4.75 million equivalent. Government has also paid som 400,000 to cover initial start-up expenses of
KAFC. In addition, Government has also agreed to transfer as share capital contribution to KAFC the
proceeds of loan recoveries made by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) and
Regional Administration (RA) from the 1992-96 budgetary credit debt, amounting to som 560 million.
Likewise, the proceeds from loan recoveries from the budgetary agricultural credit to be lent by the
MAWR and RA during 1997-99, amounting to som 225 million, will be transferred to KAFC as share
contribution by the Government. In reality, perhaps only one-third of these loans will be recovered and
transferred to KAFC. The total amount of equity contribution expected from loan recoveries is som 285.0
million, or US$17.0 million. It was understood during negotiations that such transfers would be made in
due course and that the transfers from loan recoveries to KAFC would not exceed 17.0 million. Loan
recoveries in excess of this amount would be made available to the government treasury. At full
disbursement of the IDA Credit and transfer of the proceeds from loan recoveries (in 1999), KAFC's
total paid-up share capital at the beginning of 2000 would be as follows:
(a)    Government initial share contribution                 $  412,000
(b)    Government contribution from IDA Credit proceeds      $ 4,750,000
(c)    Contribution from Government loan recoveries (1992-96)  $11,000,000
(d)    Contribution from Government loan recoveries (1997-99)  $ 6,000,000
KAFC total paid-up capital                            $22,162,000
This amount of paid-up share capital would permit a loan portfolio of approximately US$44.3 million, or
som 753.5 million at the end of the third year. KAFC charter provides for participation of the private
sector in KAFC shareholding. KAFC management would develop programs for promoting the sale of
KAFC shares to private farmers and enterprises, and their organizations.
3.08   Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan. Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the proposed IDA credit. About US$8.25 million from the proceeds of the line of credit would be
on-lent by Government to KAFC in accordance with the terms and conditions of a Subsidiary Loan and



13
Equity Investment Agreement satisfactory to IDA. The principal terms and conditions of the Subsidiary
Loan and Equity Investment Agreement were agreed during negotiations. The execution of this
agreement is a condition for effectiveness of the IDA Credit. The line of credit would be denominated in
the local currency (som) with a 1 S-year maturity, including five years of grace. It would bear a variable
interest rate which would be indexed to the annual inflation rate projected by NBK. The initial interest
rate to be charged on the Subsidiary Loan would be equal to the annual inflation.
3.09   The KAFC Lending Program. This program would meet essential financing needs of private
farm  and agribusiness enterprises.  Private farm  enterprises would consist of individual private
commercial farmers (with 20 hectares or more under irrigation, or/and a loan requirement in excess of
US$1,000), farmers' associations, corporate farms, donor-sponsored rural credit schemes, and state and
collective farms undergoing restructuring. For the last category, KAFC would catalyze the process of
farm restructuring by requiring implementation of specific actions as loan conditionality. Private
agribusiness enterprises would comprise private farm input suppliers, agro-processing enterprises,
contract farming schemes, and farm machinery and equipment hire service enterprises. For short-term
loans, KAFC would establish a revolving fund account. KAFC would start lending operations in the
second half of 1997 and by the end of December 1997 is expected to achieve an outstanding loan
portfolio of US$3.0 million equivalent. This operational level would be consistent with KAFC's initial
staffing strength (Annex B). During the first two years, KAFC would concentrate on seasonal lending.
This would permit KAFC sufficient time to train its staff in loan evaluation and processing procedures,
to get to know its borrowers, and to focus on educating its borrowers that KAFC loans are on commercial
terms and must be repaid on time and in full.
3.10   Credit to Private Farm Enterprises. KAFC would provide both initial working capital credit
and on-farm investment credit to private farmers. Working capital credit would finance purchase of
seasonal inputs and hired labor. On-farm investment lending would be diversified and include
construction and rehabilitation of irrigation and farm buildings, livestock breeding stock, and farm
machinery and equipment and any other investments assessed to be economically and financially viable
and within the capacity of the beneficiary to undertake and manage. Sub-loans under this category
would have to demonstrate financial viability (on the basis of satisfactory debt service coverage ratios)
and must include an agreed farm production/business plan. In case of ex-state/collective farms still
undergoing restructuring, an agreed monitorable restructuring action plan would be part of the loan
agreement between KAFC and the borrower. KAFC would also assure that each proposed sub-loan meets
minimum environmental requirements in accordance with IDA environmental guidelines. Initially,
KAFC's lending strategy would rely on providing credit to existing officially registered farming family
associations, restructuring state/collective farms, corporate farms (para. 1.04), donor-sponsored rural
credit schemes (para. 2.10) and agribusiness enterprises as financial intermediaries.  To these
intermediaries, KAFC would lend at a lower spread because such lending is likely to be less risky and to
involve lower transactions costs than lending directly to individual farmers. In order to be eligible to this
discount, such intermediaries would have to demonstrate: (i) satisfactory management capacity to
effectively evaluate loan applications, administer credit to and recover credit from their members; (ii)
agree to introduce and implement satisfactory accounting system for lending operations; (iii) agree to
assume the on-lending risk on basis of joint and several liability; and (iv) provide tangible and adequate
collateral. For the purpose of linking credit with trade, KAFC would support agribusiness enterprises to
establish purchase order or contractfarming schemes for selected commodities. Continued participation
of the intermediaries in the KAFC lending program would depend on their loan recovery and payment
performance and their continued ability to meet the eligibility criteria. Borrower's contribution to the
sub-loan amount would not be less than 20 percent. It is expected that most of the borrower's
contribution would be in non-cash form (e.g., family labor, retained seed). KAFC would not finance the



14
purchase of land and the refinancing of existing debts. Farmers or farmers' organizations with
outstanding overdue loans from other lenders, including Agroprombank and Government, would be
ineligible for KAFC loans. KAFC field staff would cooperate and coordinate closely with the local
agricultural advisory staff, and with NGO officials who provide advisory service to farmers. Wherever
practical, a credit-technical advice partnership approach would be adopted to ensure optimal use of
credit in the adoption of new technologies by farmers.
3.11   Credit to Agribusiness. KAFC would provide initial working capital credit and investment
credit to small and medium-scale private agribusiness enterprises engaged in processing, trading, or
provision of agriculture-related services. The project would also lend to farm machinery leasing
enterprises. KAFC would lend direct to eligible private agribusiness enterprises. To be eligible, sub-
loans in these categories would have to demonstrate satisfactory economic and financial viability as
measured by rates of return and debt service coverage ratio. All sub-loans for agro-processing and farm
input trading would be subject to environmental assessment by KAFC. Minimum sub-loan size under
this category would be US$1,000. Sub-loans for agro-industries would finance new investments, or
modernization, rehabilitation or expansion of existing production facilities and include permanent
working capital. Again, KAFC would not finance land purchase and existing debts. Borrower's
contribution to sub-project cost would not be less than 30 percent. KAFC's term lending would, however,
be postponed to the third year of operation to allow KAFC staff to gain operational experience with short
term lending and to coincide with the phasing out of government transfers to the agricultural credit
program (para. 3.28).
3.12   KAFC's On-lending Terms and Conditions. KAFC would bear the repayment risk on its sub-
loans (denominated in the local currency). Sub-loan repayment periods for farming and agribusiness
activities would be based on the projected cashflow and borrower's repayment capacity. Repayment of
seasonal loans for farming operations and working capital loans would be dovetailed to the
production/service cycle and, as a rule, the repayment period would not exceed 12 months. Sub-loan
repayment periods for on-farm investments, farm machinery and equipment, transportation equipment,
and agro-processing investments would not exceed the useful life of the investment financed, and, as
rule, should not exceed 10 years, including a grace period of no more than three years. Sub-loans would
be denominated and repayable in the local currency. They would bear interest rates that are positive in
real terms. Interest rates on short-term sub-loans would be revised once a year in October to ensure that
such rates on seasonal loans do not change before maturity dates. Term sub-loans would be variable and
would be indexed to the projected rate of inflation at the time the sub-loan is made. The basis of
KAFC's interest rate structure for short- and long-term loans would be its borrowing rate as stated in
para. 3.08. KAFC would add onto this basic rate its margin that would range between 5 and 8 percent,
depending on the risk rating of a sub-loan, loan size, intermediary loans, quality of collateral and other
considerations. The basic interest rate for 1997 was agreed during negotiations. Given the uncertainty
about the enforceability of secured transactions under existing Kyrgyz laws, KAFC would, initially, not
make asset-based loans (i.e., loans secured by assets without demonstrated cashflow to cover repayment
of principal and interest).
3.13   Collateralfor Loans. Laws on secured transactions, including collateral and mortgage are still
lacking in the Kyrgyz Republic. Drafts on Collateral Law and on a Land Code have been submitted to
the country's legislature, but have not been enacted. A law on pledges was enacted in April 1997. The
enactment of these laws is surrounded by legislative uncertainties. Lending under the proposed project
would not rely on security offered by borrowers, but largely on farm profitability and community-
enforced incentives. The lack of these laws, however, would not jeopardize the achievement of project
objectives in the medium-term. The priority for the legal advisor to be hired by KAFC would be to assess



15
the implications of the existing and proposed laws on KAFC lending, with special reference to the
creation, registration, and enforceability of secured transactions. The findings and recommendations
resulting from this review would determine, to a large extent, KAFC practices on secured transactions.
3.14   KAFC  Lending Policies, Procedures, and Business Plan. KAFC  management and
organizational structure would be lean and cost effective. The corporate and management structure
presented in Annex B was agreed during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations. KAFC management
would prepare a detailed draft lending operations manual and submit it to IDA for review. The adoption
of the manual by the KAFC Board is a condition of effectiveness. It was also agreed during appraisal
that external auditors will be hired and retained annually by KAFC to review at random 10 percent of its
outstanding loan portfolio and recommend corrective actions. KAFC's accounting and auditing would
be in accordance with international accounting practices and standards and in accordance with the chart
of accounts for commercial banks prescribed by NBK. To underpin its lending operations during 1997
to 1999, KAFC will prepare a Business or Corporate Plan satisfactory to IDA. The plan would reflect
KAFC's initial operational experience and devise strategic and realistic approaches to resolve pertinent
issues in credit delivery under rapidly changing social and economic environment. In view of this, a
draft of this Corporate Plan will be completed and submitted to IDA for review not later than January
31, 1998, and carry it out thereafter, subject to comment by IDA.
H.    Pilot SFCOP Component
3.15   SFCOP Institutional Framework The project would support, on a pilot basis, lending to poor
farmers (para. 1.06) through a line of credit and development of farmers' self-help organizations (para.
3.03). The institutional framework for implementing the program is described in chapter 4. The line of
credit and the promotion of FSOs would be administered by a separate Department in KAFC. For this
purpose, the execution of a Grant Administration Agreement between KAFC and the Ministry of Finance
will be a condition of disbursementfor SFCOP. KAFC would administer the implementation of SFCOP
at a fee sufficient to cover the cost of its departmental staff. The SFCOP Department would be headed
by a Program  Manager with specific qualifications and terms of reference (Annex E).  These
qualifications and terms of reference were agreed during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations. The
Program Manager's employment by KAFC is a condition for credit effectiveness. He/she would be
responsible and accountable to the KAFC Executive Director for efficient management of the program.
The SFCOP Department in KAFC has been established as agreed during negotiations. The institutional
framework for implementing the program would consist of the Department; two or three local and/or
foreign private Development Entrepreneurs (DEs) to be contracted by the Department to act as financial
intermediaries and promoters of FSOs on an agent basis; and FSOs to provide members' access to credit
and advise on better use of credit and agricultural advisory services. This institutional framework
incorporates the major best practices of existing rural credit schemes in the country and in foreign
countries with similar socio-economic environment (Box 1). The DEs would be private sector firms or
NGOs with the requisite institutional capacity and experience to play the dual role of a financial
intermediary and promoter of FSOs. In their capacity as agents of the Department, they would perform a
range of tasks associated with lending and institution building for small farmers (Box 6). The DE
contracts would be based on clear and monitorable indicators related to outreach and self-sustainability
of the FSOs (para. 3.40). Minimum performance indicators would be agreed ex-ante with the
Department and incorporated into the contract and annual work plans. DEs who fail to meet these
minimum performance indicators would have their annual contracts terminated at expiration. Those who
exceed the agreed minimum performance indicators would have their annual contracts renewed
automatically upon expiration and they would receive a performance bonus in addition to the basic
contract price. The bonus system would be agreed ex-ante and incorporated in the contract.



16
BoQ I
Rural Credit Best Practices
Best practices in agricultural production lending in the Kyrgyz Republic and elsewhere
include:
- Extend credit within a "development parmership package' involving training and advice
- Deliver credit to eligible farmers as members of a group
- Where practical deliver credit in-kind to new borrowers
- Extend credit in "steps", starting with small seasonal loans
- Extend credit for inputs with greatest impact on farm profitability
- Adopt a "get tough" policy toward repayment of loans
- Set loan repayment to dovetail crop/commodity production cycle
- Loan application screening by the group is the best form of loan security
- Make group responsible for individual loan monitoring and reporting
- Non-collateral substitutes must be emphasized in loan risk management
- Several and joint liability of a group without a joint enterprise is not helpful
3.16   SFCOP Target Group. The program's target group includes private farming households at or
slightly above the poverty line (para. 1.06). These households do not have access to institutional credit
nor would they be able to meet eligibility criteria for KAFC lending (para. 3.10). In the past, the
Government credit program has by-passed these poor farmers in favor of large public sector farms.
Lending to these small private farmers, on an individual basis, would be prohibitively expensive and
risky. In order to enable them to have access to institutional credit, they would be organized into groups.
Each household would be cultivating an average of about 5 or more hectares under irrigation, or whose
average seasonal credit requirement would be less than US$1,000 equivalent. Most of these farmers fall
under the "private individual farm" category, estimated at approximately 23,000 by the end of 1996. This
number is increasing with further restructuring of family farming associations, state and collective farms.
Most of these farmers would be having access to institutional credit for the first time since they became
private farmers unless they have "graduated" from the PBD lending program which is intended for
households below the poverty line. To be eligible to participate in the program, these farmers would have
to be organized under an FSO with the criteria described in Box 2. The FSOs would be voluntary groups
or associations of private farmers with the aim of accessing institutional credit over an extended period.
The major characteristics of the envisaged FSOs and summarized in Box 3. Most of these FSOs would
initially operate without a joint or cooperative enterprise through which group lending or borrowing
could take place. However, most FSOs would be established with the ultimate objective of eventually
becoming cooperative societies providing financial services to members through the cooperative
enterprise. The DEs would spearhead the promotion of and lending to FSOs. The DEs would promote
the formation of FSOs through the provision of organizational and legal support, member training, and
lending to individual members of the FSO. Loans to FSO members would be exclusively seasonal to
purchase essential farm inputs only. Initially, FSOs would be pre-cooperatives established during the
transition period with the objectives of: (i) familiarizing members with the organizational and
management of a cooperative society; (ii) teaching members how to work together in a cooperative
group; and (iii) providing a practical opportunity to members to establish a cooperative enterprise step by
step. An FSO would be allowed to participate under the program for a maximum of two years only, after
which it would graduate into a fully-fledged RFI of some type and become eligible to participate in the
KAFC or ADB programs. FSOs that fail to meet eligibility criteria of the KAFC lending program after
two years of operation would no longer be eligible to participate in the SFCOP. Similarly, FSOs that



17
successfully graduate out of the program, but later fail to continue their participation in the KAFC and
ADB programs would not be granted re-entry into the SFCOP. Initially, the number of members per FSO
would be limited to a maximum of 50 farm enterprises. This number would foster homogeneity and trust
within the group. However, as FSOs develop and "graduate" into RFIs, there would be a need for
amalgamation of two or more FSOs to achieve economy of scale in providing financial services to
members.
Box 2
Eligibilitv Criteria for Participation in the SFCOP by Farmers
In order to participate in the SFCOP, farmers would have to meet the following
minimum requirements:
- be a registered and licensed farm enterprise
- possess an "akt" on the farm enterprise
- farm enterprise has at least 5 ha under irrigation, or a minimum
loan requirement of US$300 equivalent
- producing at least one cash crop capable of generating adequate
cashflow for loan repayment
- member of a participating FSO
3.17 SFCOP Scope and Lending Procedures. SFCOP lending would be in accordance with the "best
practices" specified in Box I and would be targeted to farmers meeting the specified eligibility criteria
(Box 2). The program would be implemented on an oblast-based phasing, so that implementation in the
first year would be limited to Naryn and Issyk-kul oblasts, to be followed by another two which are
relatively poor, contiguous and advanced in farm restructuring (i.e., have large numbers of private farm
enterprises). In the last year, the remaining two oblasts would be covered. The program implementation
would be extended to other oblasts, only if the program's objectives are being satisfactorily achieved in
the initial two oblasts. Under the program, DEs, contracted by the Department to act as agents in
intermediating credit, would be responsible for promoting the establishment of FSOs among the target
farmers and for administering credit to individual FSO members, using the credit funds allocated to
them, on the basis of an annual contract with the Department. The Department would assume the
lending risk. The DEs would be responsible for making available to and recovering from FSO members
credit funds with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with guidelines issued by the
Department from time to time. Lending under the program would be limited to seasonal credit for on-
farm inputs. The method of loan disbursement (cash or in-kind inputs) would be decided by the DE on
the basis of repayment experience of FSO members and local availability of input suppliers and their
willingness to participate in a "credit-input supplier partnership package". Under this package, DEs
would lend predominantly in-kind (over 80 percent of loan amount) by issuing borrowers a voucher that
would be redeemed for inputs at a program participating private input supplier. Upon submission of a
delivery note signed by the borrower, the input supplier would receive cash payment from the voucher-
issuing DE. Lending would be done on the basis of a three-party Loan Agreement signed by the DE, the
borrowing member, and an authorized representative of the FSO to which the borrower is a member
(Annex E). Under this arrangement, the FSO member would be the borrower of record, and the FSO
would be responsible for screening and endorsing the member's loan application and for enforcing loan
repayment by the member. FSOs would screen and recommend their individual members' applications
on the basis of their creditworthiness in terms of the viability of their farming operations (cashflow
analysis) and personal character (including performance in meeting financial and other obligations).



18
Individual members of an FSO would complete and submit their loan applications to their respective
FSO. A simple loan application would be used by the DEs (Annex F).
Box3
FSO Major Characteristics
FSO is a general term which covers all forms of organizations having a
cooperative nature, including the following:
- managed by members for members voluntarily -
- objective is to facilitate members' access to credit
over an extended period
- loose or cohesive grouping based on clans or
location/settement
- group may or may not operate a joint enterprise
(cooperative enterprise) through it renders
services to members
l decision making by members only
(democratic element)
l member participation in self-help activities, including
loan application screening and repayment enforcement
- small and homogenous membership groups
- advantages in excess of pure profit-sharing
3.18   SFCOP Lending Terms and Conditions.  The program's funds for the line of credit and
institution building would be transferred to the Department as a grant through the regular budget process.
However, the Department's lending interest rate structure would be similar to that of KAFC. The DEs
would on-lend to FSO members at a basic interest rates indexed to the NBK-projected rate of inflation at
the time the loan is made plus a margin of 6 percentage points. The FSOs would be critical to the
success of the program. Their role would include the functions outlined in Box 4. The DEs would lend
to eligible members of FSOs after the members, as a group, have agreed to perform the functions of an
FSO (Box 4). All lending under the program would be in the local currency. The interest rate under the
program for 1997/98 will be 30 percent as agreed during negotiations. The minimum loan size would
be US$300 per member, while the maximum loan size would be US$1,000 per member. Borrowing
members would be required to contribute not less than 20 percent of the total cost of the project for
which the loan is requested. This member's equity contribution could be in non-cash form (e.g., own
labor, land, or retained seeds, provided they are part of the proposed project's costs). Loan repayment
period would be matched with the production cycle of the commodity for which the loan is being
requested, but would not exceed 12 months. Due to uncertainty about the legal enforceability of tangible
loan securities (e.g., collateral on houses, land), lending under the program would not be asset-based.
Instead, collateral substitutes (including cut-off from future access to loans for FSOs with defaulting
members, publication of names of defaulters on local public notice boards) would be adopted to
complement the borrower's creditworthiness. The borrower's "akt" (lease certificate) would, however,
be kept by the FSO as documentary evidence for use rights on the farm by the borrowing member. FSOs
achieving less than 80 percent loan recoveries would be automatically excluded from participating in the
program. FSOs with a perfect loan recovery performance would be allowed to increase the average size
of loans for the members in the following season. The Department would also exchange lists of
defaulters with KAFC and other credit schemes or lenders.



19
Box4
FSO Role in Implementing the SFCOP
FSOs participating in the SFCOP would play the following role:
- carry out preliminary screening of member loan applications and
endorsing those found creditworthy
- scrutinize individual member's capacity to incur debt and repay
- establish contact with DEs to determine which individual loan
applications are acceptable and should be submitted for consideration
- negotiate loan terms and conditions with relevant DE
- arrange individual member's loan guarantees or security, including
depositing of member's "akt' with the DE
- co-sign individual members' loan agreements
- supervise the use of loan by individual member in accordance
widt agreed terms
- organize and enforce loan repayment by individual members
- arrange full repayment of defaults of individual members in order
to maintain access to credit under the program
- negotiate reflow of funds with DE arrange training of members
by DE
III.    The Policy and Institutional Framework
3.19    The project would support technical assistance and training for both KAFC and SFCOP, and
promote the development of enabling environment for achieving the project objectives in the long term.
The latter would comprise the promotion of institutional, legal and policy changes or innovation.
3.20    Institutional Development TA.  The institutional framework for implementing the proposed
project would consist of the KAFC, Department, DEs, and FSOs. The proposed project would support
priority TA required by these institutions to enhance the achievement of the project objectives. Key TA
activities would include support for KAFC management, and for implementation of the SFCOP.
Accordingly, the main TA sub-components would consist of the following:
3.21    Support for KAFC Management.  KAFC  management would be critical to its success. The
Board of KAFC would recruit, on competitive basis, and retain three consultants through a foreign
financial institution or bank to provide managers for credit operations, finance, and personnel and
training during the first three years. The terms of reference for these consultants would include setting up
and operating KAFC (Annex C). KAFC management would also recruit three local counterpart staff and
several other professional staff (Annex B) on competitive basis. The proposed project would finance the
consultants for three years and the incremental cost of local staff during the first year of operation. Local
staff expenses in subsequent years would be covered by operating revenue. KAFC management team
would be recruited urgently to set-up and manage the corporation before the beginning of the 1997/98
crop season. Part of the start-up costs would be covered by a PPF of US$70,000 and budgetary resources
allocated to KAFC by the Government. TA under this component is being supported by a Swiss grant in
the first year of operation and by an EU-TACIS grant in the second and third year. KAFC staff training
would be extensive and would include training in appraisal methodology, loan portfolio management,
international accounting, financial services marketing, and strategies for savings mobilization. The
proposed project would support this training component. The project would also support the purchase of
essential equipment, including computers and complementary software.



20
Box 5
Eligibility Criteria for DEs
In order to qualify for participation in the implementation of the SFCOP,
firms or NGOs would be required to meet the following minimum
requirements:
- have license or permission to operate in the country as a
juridical person
- successful track record in managing rural financial programs in
similar socio-economic environment
- familiarity with provision of advisory services to farmers on
cooperative groups
- demonstrated institutional capacity (rnanagement and staffing)
to promote establishment of FSOs and to administer credit
effectively.
- demonstrated institutional capacity (accounting system and
financial integrity) to manage financial resources efficiently
- demonstrated institutional capacity to nmeet reporting
requirements for lending activities
- highly motivated to achieve results on the ground on the basis
of agreed performance targets
- demonstrated willingness to innovate and adopt flexible
approaches in group formation and credit extension
- agree to execute agency contract with Department with due diligence
and efficiency
3.22    Support for SFCOP Implementation. Critical to the implementation of the outreach program
would be the establishment of the Department and employment of private sector agencies to promote the
establishment of FSOs. The Department would be key in managing the program's funds and in
coordinating the planning and implementation of SFCOP. A Program Manager would be employed for
the entire project period. The first two years of the Program Manager would be funded by EU-TACIS,
and the last year would be financed from SFCOP operational revenue. Two local specialists (a Program
Supervisor and a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer) would be employed to assist the Program Manager.
Employment of local staff would be financed by the annual administrative budget of the KAFC which
would be partially funded by the fee that KAFC would charge for administering the program. However,
the Department's administrative budget for the first year would be financed in advance by the
Government at the signing of the Administration Agreement. The Department would contract, as agents,
private firms or NGOs as DEs to promote the establishment of FSOs and to administer credit to members
of FSOs. The DE agency contract would be initially for one year, renewable, for another year upon
satisfactory performance. The role to be played by the DEs is summarized in Box 6. The participating
DEs would be required to meet certain eligibility criteria (Box 5). Local firms or NGOs may not have
the requisite qualifications and experience, but they would be allowed to establish consortia with foreign
firms or NGOs who may be able to meet the eligibility criteria. The total number of DE contracts by the
third year would be three and the average cost of each contract would not exceed US$100,000 per year.
The project would finance these agency contracts during the project period. DEs with excellent credit
recovery performance (in excess of 95 percent) would be permitted to retain the credit reflows to enable
them expand their outreach. SFCOP would have separate accounts for its operations and would be
audited separately.



21
Role of DEs in Implementini SFCOP
The DEs would play the following critical role in the implementation of
SFCOP:
- administering credit to eligible FSO members
- promoting establishment of FSOs
- providing training to FSO members
- providing organizational and legal support to FSOs
- developing bookkeeping system for FSOs
- appraising applications endorsed by FSOs
- appraising loan collateral endorsed by FSOs
- supervising loans in cooperation with FSOs
- recovery loans from FSO members
- liaising with participating input suppliers in disbursement of in-kind loans
- liaising with agricultural advisory staff in loan appraisal and training in
improved use of loans
- preparing annual outreach plans as a basis for contracting with the
Department
- preparing period reports required by the Department
- monitoring performance of participating FSOs
-_maintaining requisite accounts
3.23    Supportfor Training. Training of local staff for KAFC and SFCOP as well as for members of
FSOs would be critical to building local capacity to develop the rural finance system in the long term.
The project would support the following training activities:
3.24    KAFC Staff Training. KAFC would prepare a training program with a practical orientation and
incorporate it in its business plan. All newly recruited staff would undergo training, starting with short
orientation courses. The objectives of such courses would include briefing to the new staff on the
corporation and its mandate, loan products, lending policies and procedures, lending terms and
conditions, loan appraisal methodology, loan processing and loan accounting. The short in-house
courses would be combined with field visits and real field case studies in which the staff would identify
investment opportunities, assess credit demand, update farm data on number, size, production costs,
revenue of existing farm enterprises. These local courses would be complemented by foreign short
courses for best performing staff. KAFC would accelerate its staff training program to acquire adequate
institutional capacity for expanded lending to replace the government agricultural credit program by the
end of 1999. This training program would be spell out in KAFC's corporate plan for 1998-2000. KAFC
would also implement an outreach program aimed at informing its potential clients and the public at
large about its mandate and operations. For this purpose, it would prepare publicity materials and
radio/TV programs. The project would support both the KAFC training and publicity programs in the
first two years of operation. Subsequently, training and publicity programs would be financed from
operating revenue.
3.25    SFCOP Training Support. Department's local staff training would be provided by KAFC and
would also involve study tours intended to familiarize them with the operations and coordination of
micro-credit programs by foreign agencies. Training for SFCOP also would involve members of FSOs.
The training of FSO members would be done by the DEs who would receive annual allocations for this
purpose from the Department on the basis of mutually agreed outreach programs. Training of FSO
members would enable the members to operate as a cohesive group based on trust and democratic



22
principles, and to enable them carry out the self-help activities of their organization effectively (Box 4).
This training would aim at enabling the FSOs to function effectively and "graduate" into RFIs at the end
of the second year of their participation in the outreach program. The project would support the FSO
training programs.
3.26   Policy Changes and Institutional Innovations. Policy changes and institutional innovations
would be necessary to facilitate achievement of the overall objectives of the project. The project would
promote the implementation of several policy and institutional actions. A summary of the objectives of
these policy and institutional changes the proposed actions and their timing are presented in Annex A
and are summarized below.
3.27   Policy Changes. The existing policy environment is fraught with several distortions which
would not be conducive for the development of a commercially sustainable rural finance system in the
country. The following policy-induced distortions would be removed:
*  Interest Rate Subsidy.  Current lending interest rates for agricultural credit programs,
operated by Government and donors, are subsidized because they neither reflect the
prevailing market rates nor the volatile rate of inflation. The following agreements were
reached with Government during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations: (i) the
Government agricultural credit program for the 1997 production season (November 1996-
April 1997) would be administered at an interest rate of 10 percent, and (ii) during the 1998
and 1999 production seasons, lending interest rates for Government, KAFC and SFCOP
agricultural credit programs wouldfully reflect the NBK-projected rates of inflation.
*  Farm Debt Overhang. Debt outstanding to the agricultural sector consists of: (i) debt to
Agroprombank (som 1,012 million); (ii) debt accumulated through government transfers for
agricultural credit (som 560 million); and (iii) an unknown amount of inter-enterprise debt.
Government has agreed that debt (i) would be recovered by DEBRA, a debt collection
agency established under the FINSAC operation, and debt (ii) would be recovered by
MAWR and RA. The debt amounts, in real value in 1997, are much less than the original
amounts due to high inflation. Government has established an inter-agency Task Force,
under the leadership of the First Prime Minister (Finance and Economy), to collect the debt
information data and recommend specific mechanisms fir dealing with the inter-enterprise
debt. It is understood that the Task Force 's report would be forwarded to IDA not later than
August 1, 1997. The Task Force's recommendations would be implemented, if found
acceptable by IDA.
3.28   Government Agricultural Credit Program. Increasing budget resources have been allocated to
the Government agricultural credit program since 1992. The budget allocation for agricultural credit in
1997 is planned to be som 150 million all of which is expected to come from loan recoveries from
budgetary credit of the previous years. These fund transfers have not been repaid and continue to
accumulate. In an environment of expanding budgetary allocations for commodity credit at negative
rates of interest, it would be almost impossible to develop and sustain a commercially viable rural credit
system, like the one proposed under this project. While a case could be made for providing financial
support to agriculture at this critical juncture of the transition, such support should be reduced and
eventually phased out. During appraisal, the following agreements were reached with the Government
and they were confirmed at negotiations: (a) Government will reduce and phase out its budgetary
allocations to the agricultural credit program on the following maximum benchmarks and schedule:
(i)1998: 50 million soms; (ii) 1999: 25 million soms; (iii) 2000: 0.0 million; (b) these budgetary transfers



23
would be made by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Agriculture early enough (August) to be
able to finance imports of critical farm inputs for use in winter and spring cultivation; (c) minimum on-
lending interest rates on these budgetary credit will be equal to KAFC's lending interest rates, except in
1997 when it will be 10 percent per annum; (d) MAWR, in collaboration with the RA, will be
responsible for recovering these loans; (e) MAWR and RA will prepare a complete list of borrowers with
overdue balances for budgetary credit and submit to KAFC such a list, and copies of the credit contracts
before negotiations; (f) loan recoveries made by MAWR and RA on budgetary loans made during 1992-
96 and 1997-99 will be transferred to KAFC as share capital contributions by the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic, unless otherwise agreed by the Association, (g) after 1998, KAFC will manage all
lending operations in each oblast using the recovered funds and, on a matching basis, its own funds; (h)
annual expansion in KAFC lending operations will be, at least, equal to two times the reduction in the
budgetary credit for agriculture during 1998-2000; and (i) MAWR and RA will establish eligibility
criteria for participation in the budgetary credit program.
3.29   Institutional Innovations. These would be implemented to ensure that KAFC develops quickly
into a cost conscious and reputable commercial credit agency, and to create a suitable legal framework
for the development of FSOs and RFIs. The following innovations would be implemented:
-  KAFC Institutional Innovations. These will include the following measures: (i) revision of
the KAFC Charter on the basis of the recommendations of the pre-appraisal mission (Annex
D); (ii) approval and adoption of an appropriate organizational and management structure for
KAFC (as described in Annex B) by the KAFC Board; (iii) approval and adoption of
appropriate operational policies and procedures for KAFC. It is understood that these
actions would be implemented by the Board of KAFC not later than October 31, 1997.
*  SFCOP Institutional Innovation. This would include the provision of satisfactory evidence
by KAFC of legal measures to support the establishment and operation of precooperatives
and cooperatives as providers of access to micro-credits or savings mobilization services is a
condition of disbursement for SFCOP.
D.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.30   Project Costs. Total costs over a three year period of the project are estimated at US$21.0
million (Table 3.1), including physical and price contingencies (except for lines of credit). The project
costs do not include taxes or duties as goods financed under the project would be exempt. Detailed cost
tables are in Appendix 1. Lines of credit account for 72 percent of total project costs. Technical
assistance costs would be US$2.4 million or approximately 11 percent of total project costs. Training
would account for US$1.1 million or 5 percent of total project costs. The relatively high shares of
technical assistance and training in total project costs reflects the severity of lack of local implementation
capacity and the need for implementation support and institution-building. The development of a
commercially sustainable rural finance system in the country would place high demand on commercial
management skills and technical knowledge, both of which are quite scarce in the country.



24
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs (USS million)
Component                Local         Foreign         Total         Foreign
as % of Total
KAFC Line of Credit               2.6          10.4           13.0             80
SFCOP Line of Credit              0.4           1.6            2.0             80
KAFC Technical Assistance         0.1           1.4            1.5             93
SFCOP Technical Assistance        0.0           0.9            0.9            100
Training for KAFC/SFCOP           1.0           0.1            1.1             09
Support for Admin. Budgets        0.7           0.3            1.0             33
Total Base Costs                  4.8          14.7           19.5             75
Physical Contingencies            0.3           0.4            0.7             57
Price Contingencies               0.2           0.5            0.7             75
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               5.3          15.6           2 1.0*           75
* Does not add up due to rounding up error
3.31   Financing Plan. The proposed sources of financing the project costs are summarized in Table
3.2. The proposed IDA Credit of US$16.0 million equivalent would finance 76 percent of total project
costs. The Credit would consist of US$15.0 million for lines of credit to KAFC and US$1.0 million to
finance TA for SFCOP and vehicles and equipment for KAFC. It was agreed during negotiations that
Government would seek bilateral grants to finance the SFCOP technical assistance and that, once such
grants are obtained, the proceeds of the IDA Credit thus made free would be made available to the
SFCOP line of credit by the Government on a grant basis. The Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC)
has provided a grant of about US$0.6 to cover KAFC technical assistance and training during the first
year. The European Union-TACIS would provide about US$2.0 million equivalent to finance KAFC and
SFCOP technical assistance and training. Government, KAFC and final beneficiaries would finance
US$2.4 million equivalent, or 11 percent of total project costs, mainly covering support for
administrative budgets of KAFC and SFCOP and contributions by final beneficiaries to sub-loans. An
IDA PPF, amounting to US$70,000, has been advanced to KAFC to purchase requisite computer
equipment and software and it would be refinanced upon Credit effectiveness.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan (US$ million)
Sources                  Total Amount            % of Total
IDA                                   16.0                   76
SDC                                    0.6                    3
EU-TACIS                               2.0                   10
Govt./KAFC/Beneficiaries               2.4                   11
TOTAL FINANCING                    21.0                   100
E.    PROCUREMENT
3.32   KAFC management and the Department would be responsible for carrying out all procurement
and disbursements under their respective programs. KAFC would have capabilities for: (i) monitoring
procedures for procurement and disbursement; (ii) ensuring proper notification of bidding opportunities;
(iii) preparing specific bid documents based on the current Bank Standard Documents for goods and
works; (iv) preparing letters of invitation and terms of reference for consultants; (v) evaluating bids and



25
proposals and preparing evaluation reports; and (vi) supervising contracts. The Department would
contract KAFC to carry out these functions.
3.33   Procurement Methods. Tables 3.3 summarizes the proposed procurement methods under the
project: (i) Goods: Bulk of the goods (valued US$15 million), are farm inputs, small equipment, spare-
parts, livestock breeding stock and agricultural produce under small loans (estimated not to exceed
US$2000 per loan) re-lent to farmers through two Agricultural Credit Institutions (KAFC and SFCOP).
The beneficiaries are therefore expected to carryout procurement using local commercial practices.
Office equipment and vehicle to the KAFC estimated to cost about US$100,000 will be procured
following shopping procedure; (ii) Consulting Services: three consulting service packages each estimated
to cost about US$250,000 will be procured following fixed budget method and few other contract
assignments estimated not exceeding US$50,000 per contract such as legal support, accounting, auditing,
will be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines dated January 1997. Consulting
Services, financed by the EU-TACIS and Swiss funds, would be procured in accordance with the donor's
procedures; (iii) Training estimated to be about US$1.1 million, would consist of study tours and local
courses provided by local or foreign DEs. Training would be financed by EU-TACIS and Swiss funds
and would be procured in accordance with the donors' procedures; (iv) Support for Administrative
Budgets of KAFC and Department, consisting of incremental local staff salaries and allowances, utilities,
communication, vehicle and equipment operating and maintenance expenditures, would be procured in
accordance to KAFC operational manuals, approved by IDA.
3.34   Prior Review of Procurement Decisions by IDA. There would be no prior review of bidding
documents, bid evaluation and contract awards by IDA for goods, except for ICB. However, the
procurement documents would be kept for review by IDA supervision missions. For technical assistance
and training, contracts valued at US$100,000 and above for firms, and US$50,000 and above for
individuals or local firms would be subject to IDA's prior review. All terms of reference would be
subject to IDA's prior review.
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Methods (US$ million)
Bank Financed            Not Bank Financed (NBF)
Comm.  Shopping  Consultancy  EU-TACIS   Swiss   Gov.   Total
Practice
Goods
1.1 KAFC Credit          13.0                                                      13.0
1.2 SFCOP Credit         2.0                                                        2.0
1.3 Vehicle & Equipment            0.1                                      0.2    0.3
Consultancies
2.1 TA - KAFC                                             1.0       0.5             1.5
2.2 TA - SFCOP                                0.9                                   0.9
Training (1 1)
3.1 KAFC                                                  0.6       0.1             0.7
SFCOP                                                  .4                       0.4
Support for Admin.                                                      0.9    0.9
Budget
15.0      0.1        0.9        2.0       0.6      1.1    19.7*
(1.75 ECU)
16.0                         3.7
* Does not correspond to total project base costs due to rounding error.



26
F.    DISBURSEMENTS
3.35   The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a four-year period expected to
start in September 1997. The disbursement schedule for the project is presented in Annex J and it
deviates from the disbursement profile of typical agricultural projects because over 72 percent of the
total project costs would be lines of credit which are expected to be quick-disbursing, given the demand
for short-term credit in the country.
3.36   The proposed credit of SDR 11.9 million (US$16.0 equivalent) would be disbursed against the
categories and at percentages indicated in para 3.37. Disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs), except for (i) contracts for goods valued at more than US$50,000; (ii) contracts of
consultant firms valued at more than US$100,000; (iii) contracts of individual consultants or local firms
valued at more than US$50,000. The documentation of justification of withdrawals made under the
SOEs would be retained by both KAFC and the SFCOP Department, and these would be reviewed by
IDA supervision missions, as well as be subject to annual audits. To facilitate disbursements against
eligible expenditures, the Borrower would establish two special accounts in a commercial bank, selected
in consultation with NBK and the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The first account is to be operated
by KAFC , and the second by the SFCOP Department; both accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. IDA would make Authorized Allocations of US$1.0 million
and US$250,000 respectively.  Initially, the allocations would be limited to US$500,000 and
US$100,000 until disbursements had reached SDR3.0 million and SDR500,000, then the full Authorized
Allocation could be claimed. The KAFC and SFCOP would submit replenishment applications for
special account on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever comes first.  The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary
documentation, bank statement of the special account, a reconciliation bank statement of the special
account against Bank records.
3.37   The disbursement percentages by category for the proposed IDA Credit (US$16.0 million) would
be as indicated below. It was agreed during negotiations that adherence to the terms and conditions
specified in the Lending Operational Manual will be a condition for disbursements of all subloans under
KAFC and SFCOP. (Disbursements of SFCOP subloans are subject to other conditions.)
Category                  Amount of the Credit       % of Expenditures
Allocated (S$)            to be Financed
(1)    Subloans:
(a) KAFC Component         13,000,000                 100% until December 31, 1998;
85% until December 31, 1999;
75% thereafter.
(b) SFCOP Component        2,000,000                  100%.
(2)    KAFC Goods                  100,000                  100% of foreign expenditures;
and 80% of local expenditures.
(3)    SFCOP Consultants           900,000                  100% of foreign expenditures;
and 80% of local expenditures.
(4)    Refunding of PPF             70,000
TOTAL                      16,000,000



27
G.    PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
3.38   Project Accounting.  Both KAFC and Department would establish accounting and control
systems capable of reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions by various implementing
agencies. These systems would be in place before project expenditures begin. The Department would
contract KAFC to operate its accounting system. For the use of SOEs, both KAFC and the Department
would process and maintain SOE documentation to IDA's satisfaction. KAFC would use the FAO-
developed Microbanker as its primary accounting software. For the Special Accounts, the KAFC and the
Department would agree with the depository commercial bank(s) on the procedures for proper
accounting of receipts, payments and submission documentation to IDA for the replenishment of the
accounts.
3.39   Project Auditing. Annual accounts of the project, including SOEs and Special Accounts, would
be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent auditors, acceptable
to IDA and they would also conform with the requirements of the NBK relating to financial institutions.
The various contractors under the SFCOP would also provide annual financial statements for contracts
under their implementation, and these would be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors would be appointed by the Board of
KAFC and the Department. The terms of reference for the auditors would conform to the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing Projects Financed by the World Bank, of March 1982. The financial
statements and the auditors' opinions and reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after completion of the fiscal year. The cost of retaining the auditors would be financed from the
proceeds of the IDA Credit and would be included as part of project costs. Auditors would also be
required to select randomly, at least, 10 percent of KAFC's active portfolio for management auditing.
H.    REPORTING AND MONITORING
3.40   Annex H contains the monitorable indicators for each project objective. The annual business
plan of KAFC and the annual work plans of the DEs would include sections detailing the targets and the
results that would be expected to be achieved at the end of each year. KAFC and the Department would
establish, on the basis of this information, monitoring and evaluation systems and follow up regularly the
progress achieved under the annual plans. The following year's business or work plan must explain any
discrepancy between the targets and the results obtained. The Department would recruit a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist for this purpose. In KAFC, the Financial Controller would be responsible for
this task. For the purpose of monitoring and evaluation, the management information system (MIS) for
KAFC and the Department would be focused on providing information on: (i) outreach indicators
consisting of number of clients, farm size, percentage of female clients, average loan size; and (ii) self-
sustainability indicators comprising on-lending rates, interest rate spread, loan recovery rates, loan
transaction costs, and level of savings mobilization. Both KAFC and the Department would prepare and
submit annual reports describing the progress achieved during the year on all aspects of the respective
components, problems encountered and changes introduced. Substantial changes must receive IDA's
approval before they are implemented. Annual reports would be submitted to IDA not later than March
31 of each year.
I.    MID-TERM REVIEW
3.41    An independent consultant together with an IDA supervision mission would carry out a Mid-
Term Review of the project at the middle of the second year of implementation. The review would focus
on progress made, take stock of experience gained in implementing the individual components of the
project, and evaluate problems associated with beneficiary participation in implementing project
activities



28
IV. PROJIECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
4.01   The KAFC and Department would be responsible for implementation of their respective
programs. In view of KAFC's initial limited institutional capacity and lack of lending experience, its
lending program would be restricted to short term credit during the first two years of operation. For the
same reasons, KAFC's lending volume would not exceed US$3.0 million equivalent in the first year of
operation. However, the latter could be expanded rapidly with excellent loan recovery performance and
increased staff recruitment and training after the first year of operation. The SFCOP Department would
contract the implementation of the SFCOP to eligible private sector agencies, including management
consulting firms and NGOs. In order to permit some flexibility to learn and eventually to lead to the
establishment of local financial intermediaries, SFCOP would be limited to the promotion of FSOs
which would be pre-cooperative organizations requiring less formality and permitting participants more
institutional choice in terms of the type of cooperative suitable for achieving their objectives. SFCOP
would also be implemented on an oblast-based phasing, beginning with two oblasts in the first year, to be
followed by two more oblasts each subsequent year until all six oblasts would be covered in the final
year of the project. To ensure beneficiary participation, the DE would promote the establishment of FSOs
in response to demand by farmer groups in areas covered by the program. The DE would explain to
farmers the different options for cooperative types, capable of meeting their objectives and leave the
participants to make the final choice. Implementation of the various project activities is summarized in
the Project Implementation Schedule (Appendix 2).
B.    KAFC LENDING PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
4.02   The Board of KAFC would be responsible for ensuring that the KAFC program is implemented
with due diligence and efficiency. KAFC's corporate and management structure and its operating policies
and procedures would be geared toward achieving these objectives. KAFC would implement its lending
program in accordance with its business plan, lending policies and procedures as agreed with IDA (para.
3.14). Initially, loan applications would be processed in the field offices by mobile credit officers and
then submitted to the head office for further review by senior loan officers and loan approval by the
Credit Committee or the Board. Approval limits would be established for the Loan Committee
(consisting of the Executive Director, Financial Controller, and Credit Manager) and loans exceeding the
established limit would be submitted to the Board or a Board Loan Committee. During the first year of
operation, loan approval authority would be centralized at the head office. However, in order to expedite
lending decisions, KAFC would consider decentralization and delegation of loan approval authority to
oblast or regional field offices (branches) in the second year, and establish branch approval limits for a
loan committee comprising the senior mobile credit officer (SMCO) in-charge of the oblast office and at
least two mobile credit officers (MCOs). Head office loan evaluators would exercise strict control over
branch loan approvals and carry out ex-post reviews of branch-approved loans. MCOs would have
authority to reject, for valid reasons, loan applications without referring them to their supervisors
(SMCOs) or higher authority. However, branch offices would maintain brief records of all rejected loan
applications, indicating the reasons for rejection. These records, as well as loan approvals, would also be
subject to inspection by SMCOs, the Credit Manager, and the Internal Auditor. Loan agreements and
other legal documents would be prepared in the head office and submitted to the branch offices for
signature by borrowers, which would also take place in the field in the course of visits by MCOs. Loan
disbursement instructions would be issued by MCOs and disbursements would, generally, be made
through transfer of loan funds to the account of the borrower in any depository institution, including the



29
settlement system established by NBK. Loan repayments would either be made direct to KAFC head
office or branch office by the borrower or through the borrower's intermediary, or organization, if any.
C.    SFCOP MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.03   The institutional arrangement for implementing the SFCOP is fully described in Annex C and it
would comprise the Department, DEs, and FSOs. Each organization would have the following
implementation responsibilities.
4.04   The SFCOP Department. This entity, under the KAFC, would not be intended to operate as an
apex financial institution and it would be temporary. It would, however, carry out some of the functions
normally performed by apex financial organizations. Its functions would include: (i) managing the
financial resources allocated to the SFCOP by Government or donors; (ii) channeling the funds to the
DEs for lending to FSO members and for promotional activities (training); (iii) procuring of goods and
services, especially contracting DEs to implement specific oblast-based outreach programs under the
SFCOP; (iv) supervising and monitoring overall implementation of the SFCOP, (v) contracting the
carrying out of financial operations and loan accounting to KAFC; and (vi) preparing operational
manuals and guidelines for DEs and providing legal support (e.g., preparation of model by-laws and
drafting of new laws or decrees) required for the development of FSOs. The Department would allocate
funds to DEs on the basis of agreed annual work programs and budgets, specifying outreach and loan
recovery targets. The Department would, with KAFC assistance, carry out the financial operations (e.g.,
funds disbursements to and collection from DEs, and loan accounting ). Over time, the Department
could become KAFC's department specializing in lending to smaller farmers and agribusiness
enterprises.
4.05   The DEs. These would be local or foreign NGOs or consulting firms meeting the stipulated
criteria for participation (Box 6). As agents of the Department, the DEs would act a financial
intermediaries and promoters of FSOs and carry out the following tasks: (i) managing the financial
resources allocated to them by the Department; (ii) administering the credit funds obtained from the
Departmenw to FSO members in accordance with SFCOP guidelines; (iii) supervising and recovering
loans from FSO members and recycling the funds in accordance with Department directives; (iv)
carrying out training and promotional activities necessary for the development of FSOs and for the
transformation of FSOs into RFIs within two years: (v) maintaining accounts for all activities they are
contracted to carry out; (vi) liaise with local input suppliers and agricultural advisory service to promote
credit-technical development packages; and (vii) liaise with KAFC, ADB program, and other lenders on
FSO'- eligibility to participate in their respective programs. DEs would prepare annual work plans and
budgets with specific targets for outreach (number of FSOs, loan amounts, members to be trained) and
loan recoveries and recycles. These plans and budgets would be the basis for annual renewal of the
agency contracts and allocation of funds.
4.06   The FSOs. These would be the heart of program implementation. The success of the SFCOP
would depend on the farmers' response to the program and, more importantly, on the FSOs ability to
operate as cohesive groups providing sustainable access to credit for their members. The FSOs would
play a critical role in program implementation, including: (i) screening members' loan applications and
endorsing them for consideration by the DE; (ii) supervising the use of loan funds by individual
members; (iii) enforcing loan repayment by individual members; (iv) assuring the participation of
individual members in all FSO's activities, including training and meetings; and (v) maintaining accounts
related to member borrowings and repayments. FSO members' application would be based on a simple
application form (Annex F). A tripartite loan contract, signed by the DE, FSO, and the individual



30
member (borrower) would be executed to seal the loan deal (Annex G). FSO members would repay their
loans either directly to the DE or through their FSO. FSOs with unsatisfactory loan repayment
performance (below 80 percent) would be forced to exit the program and their members would not be
allowed to regroup into a new FSO.
D.    PROJECT SUPERVISION
4.07   Project supervision would be closely linked to the project objectives and the annual
implementation plans for KAFC and SFCOP. It would involve monitoring a number of key indicators
(Annex H) and assessing both quality and quantity aspects of implementation and impact. KAFC
management and Department would have primary responsibility for supervising implementation of
project activities under their purview to assess field implementation progress and problems. IDA would
field at least two supervision missions every year which would focus key implementation issues, sort out
problems, assess benefits, and draw lessons, and provide advice and guidance to the management of
implementing agencies. The first IDA supervision mission would include a project launch workshop to
provide orientation and training for key staff in implementing agencies on the project objectives,
procurement and disbursement procedures, accounting and auditing requirements. Proposed experts on
supervision missions are presented in Annex 1.
E.    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
4.08   An implementation completion report would be prepared by an independent consultant,
employed by the borrower, no later than six months after the Closing Date of the credit. The report
would highlight the successes and problems encountered during project implementation and assess the
impact of the project to determine whether the project objectives were achieved.
F.    COORDINATION WITH OTHER MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS
4.09   The proposed project would have complementary interface with the following projects which are
under implementation or being planned in the agricultural sector:
4.10   Sheep Development Project (SDP). This project is currently under implementation and aims to
improve sheep and wool productivity, privatize the provision of marketing and extension services to
private farmers, and to improve the management and conservation of natural grazing resources. The
project focuses on organizing private sheep producers into farmers' association or groups through which
the services can be channeled and on developing competitive markets for lamb and wool in which
domestic and foreign buyers participate. The proposed RFP, through either KAFC or SFCOP, would
provide access to credit to private sheep producers adopting the new technologies under SDP. It would
also enable agribusiness enterprises participating in the trading of lamb and wool have easy access to
credit for working capital.
4.11  Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). This project is under preparation. It would focus
on improving the availability of new productivity-enhancing farm technologies and of technical
knowledge (advisory services) to private farmers. The adoption of new farm technologies by private
farmers would be accelerated by the availability of credit under the RFP.
4.12  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP)  This project, under preparation, would focus on
rehabilitating the main irrigation infrastructure (main canals and dams) to restore efficiency and provide
adequate water downstream. The availability of credit to private farmers through the RFP would provide



31
the necessary incentive for private farmers to adopt irrigation-intensive technologies and assure
satisfactory economic returns on the upstream investments under the IRP.
4.13   Pilot Demonstration Project (PDP)/Kyrgyz People's Initiative Project (KPIP).  The Pilot
Demonstration Project is currently under implementation and has provided a learning process on which the
proposed KPIP would be based. The PDP has successfully tested and demonstrated that (i) the rural poor
can be encouraged to organize themselves into viable self-help organizations; (ii) the poor and
disadvantaged households can, as a group, take advantage of opportunities to improve their financial and
social well-being. The proposed KPIP would pursue the same objectives as the PDP and it would remain
focused on the resource-poor farmers, on average cultivating less than 5 hectares under irrigation or
owning a small herd or flock of livestock. The SFCOP under the RFP would use similar mobilization
strategies that have proven effective under the PDP, but would focus on a relatively resource-richer target
group of farmers (cultivating 10-50 ha and already producing a surplus for the market). Ultimately, the
KPIP groups would be expected to "graduate" into FSOs and these, in turn, into RFIs. Thus the step-by -
step approach underpinning both KPIP and SFCOP would result into a complementary effort in the long
term, despite the difference in target groups between the two programs.
4.14 ADB's Credit Union Project. This project is being proposed by ADB for financing. It would
comprise the establishment of a Credit Union System (CUS) with an Apex Union initially to be wholly by
the Government and will gradually transfer ownership to credit unions and support for NBK to strengthen
its regulatory and supervisory capacity. The CUS program would involve the establishment of 280 credit
unions and an Apex Union over a six year period to provide savings and lending services and provides for
a credit line of about US$7.0 million to match share capital and savings of credit union members. The
performance of the three trial credit unions has experienced several "teething" problems, including slow
response by farmers to participate; lack of guidance and training; inadequate savings mobilization from
members; inadequate accounting practices; and weak local leadership. These have led to changes in the
project design. The CUS would thus aim to create formal cooperative organizations, characterized by a
group of members operating through a joint enterprise (i e, the cooperative enterprise) to access savings
and lending services. Credit unions would therefore be financial intermediaries right from the start. Under
the SFCOP, the initial emphasis would be to access credit through self-help and mutual assistance and trust
within the group without operating a joint or cooperative enterprise. The credit unions established under
the CUS program would be the last stage of development of individual FSOs under the SFCOP and would
not be promoted under the RFP. However, FSOs which mature enough to require the operation of a joint
enterprise within two years under the SFCOP, would be advised either to approach KAFC to have access to
its group lendingfacility or to apply to the Apex Union and NBK to be registered as members of the CUS.
Since both the CUS and SFCOP programs would be demand driven, it is unlikely that they would compete
for members, even within the same geographical outreach. Finally, KAFC's group lending facility would
be available to all eligible RFIs, including credit unions under the CUS Program.
4.15   Other Rural Credit Schemes. There are several donor and government-sponsored rural credit
schemes in the county. The major source of credit is the government credit program which channels
budgetary funds through the Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCC), established on the basis of a top-down
approach with little or no beneficiary participation. The RCCs, as indicated by the government failure to
recover its loans since 1992 (para. 3.28), have been a dismal failure. The RCCs are expected to play a
marginal role and disappear with the elimination of the government agricultural credit program at the end
of 1999 (para. 3.28). Donor-sponsored rural credit schemes play an insignificant role, in terms of the
overall credit supply and private farmer coverage. The major donor-sponsored credit schemes include
those operated by EU-TACIS, Mercy Corps, CARITAS, HELVETAS and GTZ and have a total of 4,100
participants to whom they lend less than US$1.5 million equivalent (seasonal credit only) per season. All



32
these lenders are charging negative interest rates (12 percent/year) and loan recovery on some schemes is
less than 60 percent. These distortions would initially affect lending under the RFP. However, both the
KAFC and SFCOP lending programs would be based on what has worked or is working in these various
credit programs and schemes. The "get-tough" and business-like attitude of KAFC and the DEs would
contrast with the less business-like attitude and "grant culture" associated with some of the donors and
NGOs involved in the rural credit schemes in the country. The PDP has actually demonstrated that
substantial pay-off, in terms of loan recoveries, can be associated with the former attitude.



33
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
5.01   The project would meet an urgent need to develop an efficient system of delivering credit to the
emerging private farming and agribusiness sectors.  The project would also attempt to create a
commercially sustainable system for providing financial services to the rural population in the longer
term. The project would complement and enhance the achievement of the CAS objectives (para 2.19) in
several ways. By providing access to credit to many private farmers and agribusiness enterprises, who
currently do not have such access, the project would enable such farmers and rural enterprises to make
use of the production and marketing opportunities that are being created by the government's programs
for economic liberalization, enterprise privatization, and farm restructuring. This access to credit would
lead to increased efficiency in farm production, agribusiness production and services. In particular, the
provision of credit to numerous rural agribusiness enterprises would enable them to participate in the
procurement of both farm inputs and products, and facilitate the development of rural competitive
markets which are currently lacking and are constraining both quality and quantity of production.
Increased and diversified farm and agribusiness production and value would therefore take place, with
substantial impact on rural incomes and poverty alleviation. The project would also serve as an effective
vehicle for deepening the ongoing government economic reform program and shortening the transition
period. For example, by providing access to credit to private small farmers, and by insisting on further
farm restructuring action plans as a credit conditionality for family association farms and collective or
state farms, the project would accelerate the pace of farm restructuring and privatization of farms.
5.02   The promotion and development of FSOs, as democratic organizations owned and run by
members, would have important implications for the process of political and economic decentralization
in the country. The local organizations would encourage political and economic empowerment of the
local communities. For a country undergoing a transition towards a democratic regime, the project's
contribution to political and social stability during the transition period cannot be over-emphasized
5.03   The project would establish the basis for creating a rural finance system to serve the rural
communities, including private farmers and rural agribusiness enterprises who are increasingly emerging
from the ongoing programs for economic restructuring. The project would use both foreign and local
private sector agencies, with government support and financing, to establish a private sector-oriented
rural finance system. Both KAFC and SFCOP would establish operating policies and procedures, and
banking skills necessary for investment lending and eventually produce a cadre of well-trained and
experienced rural finance specialists. These specialists could be employed and together with the
successful policies and procedures of KAFC and SFCOP, could be replicate by commercial banks for the
benefit of the entire banking sector in the country. Although the KAFC, Department, and DEs are
considered as temporary institutions, which would disappear with the cessation of government direct
support to the rural finance sector, they are expected to be converted into genuine private sector financial
institutions. KAFC and Department could eventually be merged and sold to the private sector (e.g., to
become the national apex organizations of all rural financial intermediaries). It is possible that some of
the DEs, being part of the private sector in their own right, could form the basis for horizontal and
vertical integration by the RFIs at oblast or regional level. In other words, they could become the nuclei
for the formation of regional RFIs.
5.04   Lending to private farmers under both the KAFC and SFCOP programs would be closely linked
to agricultural advisory services and agricultural marketing (especially input supply). Agricultural
advisory service, under the SDP and (later) ASSP, would provide private farmers with farm and financial



34
management skills in addition to production technology. Linking credit to trade of inputs and crops could
be an effective mechanism for minimizing the risk of default. All participants in this credit extension-
trade development package would emphasize proper use of credit, sound financial management, and
credit repayment discipline as conditions for continued access to institutional credit among borrowers.
5.05   The project would also assure that lenders would assess the environmental effects of sub-loans
and make their friendliness to the environment a necessary condition for financing. Farmers and
agribusiness enterprises would be required to abide with the environmental requirements prescribed by
the national environmental authority for agro-chemical management, soil conservation, irrigation
management, and agro-industrial affluent control.
5.06   The project would additionally have other externalities, including significant improvements in
rural financial market information and integration of financial markets in the long term. At present, the
existence of imperfect information and incomplete markets in the country's rural finance system account
for the extremely high cost of providing financial services to rural communities. The development of
close lender-borrower relationship between KAFC and farmers' organizations (local RFIs) and
agribusiness enterprises, and the establishment of FSOs, owned and operated by the community, would
lead to lenders (KAFC and DEs) knowing their customers (members of RFIs and FSOs) better and vice
versa. This would lead to improved market transparency and substantial reduction in information cost
(e.g., cost of loan screening) and risk management cost. This market transparency would attract other
lenders, like commercial banks, to lend to the rural sector from which they currently shy away because of
the perceived problems of imperfect information and high risk. This market integration would result in
increased lending to the rural sector and also optimal allocation of financial resources between the rural
sector and other sectors of the economy.
5.07   Finally, the project would have complementary effects on other investments being undertaken or
planned within the agricultural sector (paras. 4.09-4.15) by the Bank under its current CAS.  In some
cases ( for example, adoption of new technologies by farmers and agribusiness enterprises), optimal
returns on these investments would depend on the availability of credit.
B.    JUSTIFICATION
5.08   Credit Requirements. Despite increasing budget allocations (in nominal terms) by government
to the agricultural credit program since 1992 (paras. 3.27 and 3.28), the nascent private farming sector
has hardly benefited as these transfers have been targeted to the ex-state and collective farms. These
farms are virtually still under the command of the local authorities who continue to be responsible for the
credit fund distribution and it is not clear to what extent the funds even reached these farms.
Consequently, much of private farming in the country has had no access to credit to purchase seasonal
production inputs or capital equipment. Consumption of essential farm inputs, such as fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, and veterinary medicines and drugs has substantially contracted. As a result, farm
production, productivity and profitability for both major crops and livestock have dramatically fallen
since 1992, except for wheat, potatoes, and vegetables in the last two years. Estimating demand for
agricultural credit in an economy undergoing a unique transition like the Kyrgyz Republic and where the
concept of credit has been highly distorted is a daunting exercise. However, using farm data, the cash
outlays (requirement) for producing the major crops and livestock among private farms the cash
requirements of the farming sector were estimated. used as a proxy for credit needs. Applying two
generally used rules of thumb, the amount of credit requirement (not demand) of the farming sector was
estimated. The rules of thumb, commonly used in estimating credit requirements are (i) agricultural
sector's credit requirement in a given production period normally represent 10 percent of the sector's



35
GDP, and (ii) agricultural sector's credit requirements generally amount to 50 percent of the total
production cash requirement of the sector for a given production season. The resulting credit
requirements are summarized in Table 5.1. These results indicate that credit requirements are well above
the Government's budgetary transfers to the sector in the past. They are simply serve to indicate the
uncertainty associated with any attempt to estimate the demand for credit in the country.
5.09   Similarly, estimating credit demand by agribusiness enterprises is equally difficult. The ADB
survey (1996) estimated the demand for working capital and longer term investments at US$30.0 million.
A study on agribusiness financing requirements done during the preparation of this project revealed that
both working capital and investment finance were critical to the restart and rehabilitation of existing
privatized agribusiness enterprises. Entry onto input supply and farm product markets is being
effectively hindered by lack of access to working capital credit by new private agribusiness enterprises.
As a result, the anticipated recovery in the agribusiness sector is not materializing following the massive
privatization effort in the sector. Indeed production of processed food has consistently fallen since 1990
and in general production in 1996 was less than one-third of 1990. Access to working capital among
agribusiness enterprises would restart the recovery in the sector and make both farm markets and
agribusiness product markets more competitive and efficient. These developments would have positive
income and employment effects in the medium term.
Table 5.1: Farm Credit Requirement Estimates
Year/Season                                    Farm Credit Requirements
(som million)  ($ million)
1996                                             1,330          73.9
1997                                              1,212         67.3
1998                                              1,334         74.1
1999                                             1,467          81.5
5.10   Farmers' Financial Returns. Several recent farm studies, including the Farm Profitability
Assessment Study (September, 1996) and the crop and livestock budgets prepared during the preparation
of this project, indicate that the Kyrgyz Republic has comparative advantage in the production of its
major commodities. These include wheat, maize, potatoes, cotton, wool, and dairy cattle. Although
farmgate prices for most of these commodities are still well below international parity prices, farmers'
profitability in the production of these commodities has been generally improving and this improvement
is likely to remain strong in the near future as local markets become more competitive during the
implementation of this project. Mixed farming, consisting of crop and livestock production, is widely
practiced in the country, except at higher mountain elevations (e.g., most of Naryn Oblast) where sheep
farming is predominant.   This mixed farming system  gives private farmers reasonable risk
diversification, balanced cash flow, and flexibility in responding to changes in market signals.
5.11   To illustrate the financial impact of the project on farm profitability, financial rates of return
(IRRs) were estimated for four farm models which are considered to be representative of the farming
system and cropping patterns in the country. The "without" situation is represented by the current



36
production structure in the representative private farms, in terms of yields and cost structure which face a
critical credit supply constraint. As a result of this constraint, inadequate working capital results in
underutilization of available land and in non-optimal adoption of inputs packages, or no use of modern
inputs. Under these circumstances, for example, farmers choose to use fertilizers alone without
weedicides in the production of wheat or grains. These decisions by farmers affect both yields and
production. The "with" situation postulates adequate availability of working capital through credit. This
enables framers to make full use of the available land and to adopt optimal inputs packages in line with
technical recommendations. Also, through increased competition and efficiency in the input delivery
system under the project, input prices would decline by about 15 percent. To fully depict the magnitude
of the impact of credit availability on farm profitability, IRRs for both "without" and "with" cases were
estimated and are presented in Appendix 4. IRRs based on incremental costs and benefit streams do not
reveal fully the magnitude of change, or the "quantum leap" between the two situations. The quantitative
assumptions underlying the IRR estimates are presented in Appendix 3. The private farm models used in
the estimation of IRR would be the principal beneficiaries of the project. Tobacco, which is a major crop
in the southern regions of the country, has not been included in the estimates because its production
would not be supported under the project (para. 5.23).
5.12   Table 5.2 summarizes the results of the monthly IRR analysis. It is evident that the project,
mainly through making credit available to various private farms at reasonable cost, would lead to
substantial improvements in farm profitability. It is also evident that the income effect and poverty
alleviation effect of the project at farm level would be considerable. The IRRs for all farms would be
particularly sensitive to increase in both inputs and product prices.  Given these levels of farm
profitability, the project risks (para. 5.17) may be more apparent than real. Such profitability is likely to
provide adequate incentive to reduce or overcome some of the project risks.
Table 5.2; Summary of Monthly Internal Rates of Return Analysis
Farm Model                   IRR (%)               Sensitivity Analysis (%)
- 20%
Without         With       + 20% Cost   Selling price
1.   Private Farm (5 ha)             5             10             7             12
2.   Private Farm (10 ha)            5              9              7            12
3.   Private Farm (20 ha)            6              9              7            12
4.   Private Farm (80 ha)            6              11             9            14
5.13   No estimation of the project's financial impact on agribusiness enterprises has been performed.
This is due to the extremely short maturity and diversity of the bulk of the sub-loans to agribusiness
enterprises. KAFC would provide working capital primarily to finance raw materials and spare parts
during the first two years of operation. These sub-loans would be made if they demonstrate satisfactory
financial viability as measured by debt service coverage ratio.
C.    SUSTAINABILITY
5.14   The project would be implemented, to a large extent, by private sector agencies (DEs, and FSOs)
and commercially-oriented public institutions (KAFC and Department) with government support and
initial funding. Once established, both types of institutions would generally be able to operate on a
sustainable basis. Despite the presence of externalities, asymmetric information, incomplete markets,



37
and the project's focus on poverty reduction, the rural finance system would be developed on a cost
recovery basis, except for the initial costs of technical assistance and training.  All financial
intermediaries participating in the project would charge interest rates that would be positive in real terms
and cover the cost of funds. The productivity and financial gains generated by the project would provide
incentives for the farmers' organizations and the KAFC to consolidate and expand their newly acquired
assets and roles. As the farmers' organizations develop into financially strong intermediaries, it is likely
that they would begin to integrate vertically into an apex financial institution. They could do so by
buying out any remaining government ownership in KAFC. The Department, once it has successfully
realized its mandate, could be converted into a department specializing in lending to small farmers and
agribusiness enterprises. The sustainability of the DEs, which would be private sector agencies, would
be governed by their responses to market changes and their ability to remain competitive. Some of the
DEs could be transformed into regional financial intermediaries, exclusively owned by local farmers'
organizations and rural agribusiness enterprises.
D.    IMPACT ON POVERTY
5.15   The project's SFCOP would directly target the poor farm households at, or slightly above the
poverty line. This segment of the poor has been increasing and accounting for the rise in the proportion
of households below the poverty line (para. 1.06). Most of the rural poor are "temporarily poor" because
they have two assets which are critical to agricultural production: land and labor. Access to credit would
enable farm households to make full use of these primary resources and increase their production and
incomes. The farm cash flows and financial rates of returns estimated above show that increases in both
production and incomes would be substantial (Table 5.2). By helping this segment of the poor to increase
both their cash incomes and food security through increased farm productivity and production, the
project would effectively reduce the proportion of households below the poverty line. It would also help
reduce the poverty gap, which doubled during 1993-1996. By financing agribusiness enterprises,
production and employment in the sector would increase and, at the same time, farm product markets
would become more competitive, creating remunerative market opportunities for farmers.
E.    FISCAL IMPACT
5.16   The impact of the project on the government budget would be positive in the long term. During
the first year of operation, Government would be required to allocate about som 7.4 million as share
capital contribution for KAFC and som 250,000 for the Department administrative budget. If, however,
MAWR and RA would be able to collect a large share of the outstanding debt from farmers, government
contributions to KAFC and the Department would be funded by these collections. This would eliminate
the traditional dependence of agricultural lending on the government budget. Subsequent government
contributions to the share capital of KAFC would be through proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit (para.
3.07). After 1999, the government agricultural credit program, which has been a major drain on the
budget, would be phased out. Lending to agriculture under the project would largely be financed outside
the budget, mainly through donor funds, domestic commercial borrowing by KAFC, and credit reflows.
F.    RISKS
5.17   The project has high risks. The major risks consist of: (i) institutional innovations, (ii) fragility
of farm profitability inherent in a nascent private farming sector under transition; (iii) political
interference; (iv) continuation of the Government agricultural support program; and (v) unwillingness to
repay by borrowers.



38
5.18   Risks of Institutional Innovations. All local institutions and staff involved in implementing the
project would be new and they would adopt credit delivery mechanisms which are yet to be proven under
Kyrgyz conditions. These risks would be minimized by: (i) employing experienced technical assistance
from the private sector to manage the key institutions (KAFC and DEs); (ii) emphasizing practical
training for staff and members of key institutions; and (iii) adopting an implementation strategy that
limits the project scope, decentralizes project implementation, and provides for continuous feedback and
adjustment (para.. 4.01).
5.19   Fragile Farm Profitability. Private farming is still a transitional phenomenon in the Kyrgyz
Republic. Profitability of most commodities in private farms is still generally depressed by market
failures inherent in the transition process. There has been, however, some remarkable recovery in the
profitability of wheat, potatoes, and vegetables in 1996. But, even this is still extremely fragile. A more
widespread and robust recovery in farm profitability would be necessary for ensuring demand for credit
and minimizing the risk of defaults by borrowers.  This would require extensive adoption of
productivity-enhancing technologies by farmers and the development of competitive domestic markets.
The project would assist farmers in this adoption process and it would also assist agribusiness enterprises
to participate more actively in farm product and inputs markets to enhance competition.
5.20   Political Interference. Government support and funding to the project could engender the risk
of political interference. KAFC, in particular, could be under political pressure to expand its lending
operations beyond its management capacity and thus compromise its autonomy and prudential
management.  To mitigate this risk, provisions have been made in its charter for private sector
representation on KAFC Board and for a strong and capable management team right from its inception.
In addition, the Board would be expected to honor its commitment to oversee the implementation of
KAFC's approved corporate plan, lending policies, and procedures.
5.21   Government Agricultural Support Program.  Continuation of the Government agricultural
credit program, even after reaching agreement on the rationalization measures (para. 3.28), would
constitute a major risk to the viability of KAFC. The Government might have no political muscle to
implement and enforce the agreed measures. In addition, until the Government acts decisively and
resolutely in enforcing the agreed measures, borrowers would expect the continuation of the credit non-
repayment culture nurtured by Agroprombank and the Government credit programs. In the event of this
risk becoming eminent, KAFC would take extra measures to increase its institutional capacity to expand
its lending operations to enable Government to channel its agricultural support through it and thereby
eliminate a separate subsidized Government credit program.
5.22   Unwillingness to Pay by Borrowers. The legacy of Agroprombank and Government credit
program has nurtured a credit non-repayment culture even when borrowers have the ability to repay. This
will haunt KAFC and SFCOP. The likelihood of this happening would be minimized by the "get-tough"
and business-like approach and refusal to forgive debt to be adopted by both KAFC and SFCOP. In
addition, collective responsibility for loan screening and loan repayment enforcement should gradually
prove effective, particularly for SFCOP, in getting borrowers to repay.
G.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.23   The environmental impact of the project would be negligible.  The potentially adverse
environmental impact resulting from the use of agricultural chemicals and fertilizers would, however, be
reduced by the use modern application methods, better equipment, and training in application and
equipment use by the extension staff. The liberalization of prices for fertilizers and chemicals has



39
resulted in higher prices which are forcing farmers to cut down on wastage and to adhere to
recommended application rates. To minimize any potentially adverse environmental impact, the Bank's
guidelines on pesticide use would be followed. Agribusiness sub-projects would be required to satisfy
environmental criteria to be eligible for consideration. In accordance with Bank policy, the project
would not directly support the production and marketing of tobacco.  In order to assess the
environmental impact of sub-loans to farmers and agribusiness enterprises (i) guidelines for
environmental screening, and (ii) basic training in environmental screening to staff in the rural financial
intermediaries will be provided. This project has been rated Category "B".



40
VI.   ISSUES AND ACTIONS AGREED
6.01   During Appraisal, the Borrower confirmed the following agreements:
(i)    Borrower will reduce and phase out government budgetary allocations for agricultural
credit by the end of 1999;
(ii)    minimum on-lending interest rates on these budgetary credit will be equal to KAFC's
lending interest rates, except in 1997 when it will be 10 percent per annum;
(iii)   MAWR and Regional Administration (RA) will be responsible for recovering these
loans;
(iv)   eligibility criteria for participation in the Borrower's agricultural credit program will be
established;
(v)    after 1998, KAFC will manage all lending operations in each oblast using the recovered
funds, and, on matching basis, its own funds;
(vi)   annual expansion in KAFC lending operations will be, at least, equal to two times the
reduction in the budgetary credit for agriculture during 1998-2000; and
(vii)   KAFC will undertake specific institutional innovations not later than October 31, 1997
(para. 3.29).
6.02   Agreements or understandings obtained during negotiations include the following:
(i)    Borrower will forward to IDA, not later than June 1, 1997, the Task Force's report on the
inter-enterprise debt (para. 3.27);
(ii)   agreement on the terms of reference for the SFCOP Program Manager was confirmed
(para. 3.15);
(iii)   agreement on indexing lending interest rates to NBK-projected rates of inflation, during
the 1998 production season and thereafter, for Government, KAFC, and SFCOP
agricultural credit programs was confirmed by the Borrower (para. 3.27);
(iv)   KAFC  financing arrangements and transfer of proceeds of loan recoveries by
Government as equity contribution to KAFC was confirmed by the Borrower (para.
3.07);
(v)    KAFC's basic interest rate structure for 1997 would reflect the NBK-projected interest
rate (para. 3.12);
(vi)   KAFC will submit a draft corporate plan for 1997-1999 period satisfactory to IDA by
January 31, 1998 and carry it out thereafter, subject to any comment by IDA (para. 3.14);
(vii)  the basic interest rate structure for 1997/98 for SFCOP would be equal to KAFC's rate
(para. 3.18);
(viii)  the principal terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan and Equity Investment
Agreement between KAFC and the Borrower were agreed (para. 3.08);
(ix)   KAFC will maintain an average loan recovery rate of not less than 75 percent of its loan
portfolio (para. 3.06); and
(x)    loan recoveries made by MAWR and RA on budgetary loans made during 1992-96 and
1997-99 will be transferred to KAFC as share capital contributions by the Borrowers,
unless otherwise agreed by IDA.



41
6.04 Before Credit Effectiveness, the Government agreed to implement the following actions:
(i)    execution of the Subsidiary Loan and Equity Investment Agreement with KAFC
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.08);
(ii)   employment of a Program Manager for SFCOP by KAFC (para. 3.15); and
(iii)  adoption of a Lending Operational Manual satisfactory to IDA (para 3.14).
6.05   Conditions of Disbursement
(a)   for the SFCOP Component
(i)    a legal act providing for the establishment and operation of pre-cooperatives and
cooperatives (para. 3.29);
(ii)   execution of a Grant Administration Agreement between the Borrower and KAFC
(para 3.15); and
(iii)  adherence to procedures, terms and conditions specified in the Lending Operational
Manual (para 3.37).
(b)   for the KAFC Component
(i)    adherence to procedures, terms and conditions specified in the Lending Operational
Manual (para. 3.37).



42                                          ANNEX A
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION FOR POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES
Objectives                               RFP Actions                               Timing         Condition
for
(a) Improving Policy        (a)   Government has agreed to:
Envirornrent:
(i)  Reduce credit            (i)  Lending interest rates for Government,        During 1998
market distortions            KAFC, and SFCOP programs to fully reflect      production season
NBK-projected rates of inflation.
(ii) Rationalize              (ii) Reduce and phase-out budgetary transfers to   Beginning during
Government credit             agricultural credit as follows: 1998: 50 million  1997/98 season
program                       soms; 1999: 25 million soms; 2000: 0.0 million
soms.
(iii) Reduce farm debt        (iii) Loan recoveries made by MAWR and RA on       May 15, 1997        Negotiations
overhang                      budgetary loans will be transferred to KAFC as
equity contribution by Government, not
exceeding US$17.0 million;
(iv) Establish eligibility criteria for participation in  Beginning during
Government agricultural credit program and     1997/98 season
enforce their application.
(v) MAWR together with regional administration     May 10, 1997       Negotiations
will prepare complete list of previous borrowers
with overdue balances for budgetary credit and
submit such list to KAFC.
(vi) After 1998, KAFC will manage all lending     January 1, 1998
operations in each oblast using the recovered
funds and, on a matching basis, its own funds.
(vii) KAFC's annual expansion in its lending program    Beginning 1998
will be equal to two times the reduction in the
budgetary credit for agriculture during 1998-
2000.
(b) Institutional           (b)  Board of KAFC would implement the following
Development                 actions:
(i)  Establish sound          (i)  Revise KAFC Charter to IDA's satisfaction.    Not later than
corporate                                                                    September 30,
governance and                                                               1997
accountability for
KAFC                      (ii) Approve and adopt corporate and management    September 1997
structure satisfactory to IDA.
(iii) Adopt appropriate operational policies and   Effectiveness
procedures.
(iv) Government would agree on terms of reference  May 16, 1997
for SFCOP technical assistance.
(ii) Establish a special      (v) KAFC would establish the Department as an      June 1997           Board
Department for                operationally and financially separate entity.                    approval
SFCOP in KAFC             (vi) Program Manager for SFCOP will be appointed    September 1997    Effectiveness
by KAFC.



43                                         ANNEX A
Objectives                               RFP Actions                               Timing          Condition
for
(c! Legal Environment       (c)   Govermnent will implement following actions:
(i)  Improve the legal        (i)  Promulgate the above Presidential Decree.     October, 1997       Disbursement
environment for
development of
FSOs and FRIs.
(d) FinanciaLand            (d)  Board of KAFC would approve and adopt the
Operational Autonomy        following:
(i)  Establish financial      (i)  A lending operational manual satisfactory to IDA.  October 1997   Effectiveness
autonomy and
accountability for
KAFC.
(ii) Adopt operational        (ii) A business or corporate plan satisfactory to IDA.   January 31, 1998
autonomy for
KAFC.
(iii) Drafting of a subsidiary loan and equity     May, 1997          Negotiations
investment agreement satisfactory to IDA.
(iv) Execution of subsidiary loan and equity       September, 1997    Effectiveness
investment agreement
(iv) Incorporation of key financial ratios in the  May, 1997
subsidiary loan and equity investment agreement.
(v) Initial financing arrangements and transfer of  May, 1997
proceeds of loan recoveries by MAWR and
Oblasts to KAFC
(vi) The basic interest rate structure for 1997/98 for    Beginning 1997/
SFCOP to be determined and revised and agreed    1998
with IDA annually in October.
(iii) Establish SFCOP         (vii) Execution of Grant Administration Agreement for  August 1, 1997  Disbursement
as independent                SFCOP by Borrower.
entity



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
KAFC ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
I BOARD OF DIRECTORS  |
EXEC U TIV E DIRECTOR--I
IN TERN AL AUDITOR                     ADMINISTRATION
LEGAAL
S E R V IC E S A N T
C O R PO RATE
S E C R E T A R IA T
F IN A N C E                               C R E D IT                  H U M A N R E S O U R C E S                    S F C O P
MANAGER                                   MANAGER                      & TR A IN IN G M AN A G E R                   MANAGER
CHIE F A C C O U N TA N T                     C H IE F                                TR A IN IN G                          PROGRAM
(M IS)                            C R E D IT                                O F F IC E R                        S U P E R V IS O R
O F F IC E R
P E R SO N N E L
ACCOUNTAN  T                            S E NI10R                 _O F F IC E R
C R E D IT 0 F F IC E R  I                                                   _
S O U T H R E G 10 N A L
O F F IC E M A N A G ER
F IE L D O F F IC E                                                                   D
(M CO s)                                                                                        I
F IE L D O F F ICEO
( M CO0 s)
NO RTH  R EGIONAL|
OFFICE MANAGER
F IE L D OF F FIC E 1
(M C O s)
| F        IE L D  OFIFNICEG &
IF IE LD O F F ICE |
a    (M CO s )



45                            ANNEX C
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJ1ECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE EXPATRIATE CONSULTANTS REQUIRED FOR KAFC
Background
1.    The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has recently approved the establishment of the
Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC) which will provide credit to the private
agricultural and rural sector, including private farmers, partnerships, cooperatives, companies,
groups of producers, etc. Financing will be provided on commercial terms for working capital,
on-farm investments, agro-processing, trade, agribusiness and services and any other viable
economic activity benefiting the agricultural sector and the rural community.
2.   Initially Government will be the sole shareholder of KAFC and it is intended to issue
shares to the private sector. The Executive Director (chief executive) has already been appointed
and she has now initiated the selection and recruitment of key personnel. It is planned that
KAFC should be in a position to start lending activities no later than mid-1997.
3.    Three expatriate consultants - (a) Manager of Credit Department; (b) Manager of Finance
Department; and (c) Manager of Staff Training will during the initial period set up and manage
these operating units, in conjunction with local counterparts and gradually transfer the
management function to their counterparts whilst continuing for some time to serve the
corporation as advisors.
Manager - Credit Department
4.    The candidate for this position should be a university graduate in agriculture, agricultural
economics or related professions and have at least five years' management experience in a
similar position in a specialized agricultural bank or an agricultural credit department of a
commercial bank. The candidate will have proven managerial and motivational skills, be a team
player, financially astute and possess and be an excellent negotiator. He/she should be energetic,
a driver of new ideas with a creative approach, cost conscious and results oriented. He/she
should be an excellent communicator, and have the credibility and stature to motivate and
influence staff and be fully committed and dedicated to coaching local staff designated to take
over in the future his tasks and responsibility.
5.    His/her principal tasks and responsibilities in KAFC would include (but not be limited to)
the following:
(a)   develop and prepare a concise lending operations manual, covering all activities
of the lending cycle including different formats for loan applications, loan
evaluation/appraisal, criteria for approval, loan processing, disbursement,
collection, supervision and monitoring, reporting and information systems, etc.



46                              ANNEX C
(b)   based on the prevailing legal and other conditions, advise KAFC regarding
collateral and guarantees;
(c)   provide guidance on methodologies and techniques for financial and economic
analyses of investment projects;
(d)   assist and advise the Executive Director in the organization of the credit
department, distribution of functions and responsibilities, including preparation of
detailed job descriptions for staff;
(e)   install appropriate procedures for controlling quality of loans, for monitoring and
assessing their impact and for monitoring performance and efficiency of lending
staff and branch offices;
(f)   coordinate with finance department and ensure that procedures for loan
accounting and loan collection, including MIS, are functioning efficiently,
provide reliable information in a timely manner;
(g)   based on initial feedback from users and borrowers, and the experience gained by
the Corporation, update, revise and improve the lending operations manual and
guidelines;
(h)   plan, design and actively participate in formal staff training activities, assisted by
Training Manager; provide continuous supervision of lending staff in the field,
on-the-job training and guidance, and devise any other measures considered
appropriate to strengthen staff capabilities and improve the performance and
productivity;
(i)   establish guidelines describing functions, responsibilities and procedures for the
loan committees; and
(j)    overall, the candidate will be responsible to the Executive Director for setting the
strategy for establishing the operational procedures for lending operations to
achieve and maintain a high quality loan portfolio based on the objectives of the
corporation, and which generates sufficient income to cover cost of funds,
administrative expenditures, provisions for doubtful loans and return on equity.



47                             ANNEX C
Financial Controller/Manager Finance Department
The Financial Controller shall report to the Executive Director and be a member of the senior
management team (management committee). He/she shall bear primary responsibility for
efficient management of the Corporation's financial resources, accounting and management
information systems. Specifically he/she will be responsible for performing the following tasks:
1.    Prepare and implement master plan for computerized accounting and management
information systems, including specifications for required EDP equipment and software. Master
plan to include information requirements and head and branch offices, reporting requirements,
preparation of financial statements and statistics, monitoring loan collection and implementation
of business plan/budget, etc.;
2.    Prepare accounting manual and guidelines for preparation and use of MIS;
3.    Ensure that Corporation complies with the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan's prudential
regulations and accounting requirements and with accounting and audit requirements of
international financial institutions and donors providing support to the Corporation;
4.    Supervise work of Chief Accountant, review and comment on monthly trial balances and
financial statements, and prepare annual financial statements for presentation to external auditors
and Board;
5.    Carry out activities related to asset/liability management and establish related procedures
and operational guidelines;
6.    Establish procedures for calculating cost of funds, analysis and periodic updating;
7.    Make proposals to management on interest rate structure, fees, commissions, etc.;
8.    Lead working group for preparation of annual corporate (business) plan, budget and
projections for financial statements;
9.    Prepare proposals to management on mobilization of financial resources for the
corporation including the sale of shares to the private sector;
10.   Prepare terms of reference for internal audit function, review work program of internal
auditor and provide advice and comments to Executive Director; and
11.   Actively participate in design and implementation of training programs and seminar for
the staff of the Corporation and institutions connected to the operations of KAFC.



48                             ANNEX C
The candidate shall:
*  have the necessary professional background and education, and a proven record of no
less than five years experience in a management position in banking and/or financial
institution, perforrming all or most of the tasks described above;
.  be a motivator, energetic, have sound judgment, good communications and
negotiating skills;
*  have leadership skills and capacity to manage effectively and motivate staff; and
*  be an ambitious individual and an excellent team player.
Training and Personnel Manager
The Training and Personnel Manager shall carry out the following tasks:
1.    Assist the Credit Operations Manager in the design and implementation of intensive
training programs for lending staff. Programs will be based primarily on the lending manual,
include loan evaluation and processing procedures, applicable to the categories of borrowers to
be served by the Corporation and the demand for credit products in Kyrgyzstan, and include,
inter alia, production planning, financial analysis, preparation of cashflows, estimation of IRRs
and calculation of other relevant ratios.
2.    Assist the Finance Manager in the design and implementation of training programs for
finance and accounting personnel, based on the accounting manual, the management information
system to be designed and the accounting software to be purchased and installed by KAFC.
3.    Design and implement brief seminars for members of board of directors and credit
committees to provide guidance on the operational procedures of the corporation and the
responsibilities of board and committee members, and on other related subjects.
4.    Prepare draft for personnel policy (staff regulations), grades and salary structure, staff
benefits and prepare proposals for performance-based incentive, bonus or reward systems to
retain qualified staff and raise productivity.
5.    Design system and procedures for monitoring performance of staff at all levels.
6.    Carry out any other tasks related to the subjects listed above.



49                             ANNEX C
The candidate for the above position will:
* have a proven record of employment at senior level in banking and financial services,
preferably in a specialized bank or credit institution serving the agricultural sector,
and possess extensive (no less than five years) experience in performing the tasks
described above;
* be a motivator, energetic, have sound judgment, strong communications and
negotiating skills; and
* be a determined and ambitious individual and an excellent team player.



50                            ANNEX D
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PROPOSED STATUTES
Comments are based on the draft statutes attached to the Report prepared by Nordic Consulting
Group in November, 1996.
1.4   The corporation shall observe the Law on Joint Stock Companies, the Banking Law as
applicable to Non-bank Financial Institutions and other laws relating to the activities of the
corporation.
Chapter 2 should describe the Principal Objectives of the Corporation similar to existing para.
2.2, however add at the end "and also provide loans for any other purpose or economic activity
benefiting the agricultural and rural community".
Following the Chapter describing the objectives, there should come a chapter describing the
functions of the company; this should include:
(a)   carry out lending operations;
(b)   provide credit guarantees;
(c)   participate in financing of investments (this refers to co-financing (consortium))
with other financial institutions;
(d)   borrow loan funds in Kyrgyzstan and abroad;
(e)   enter into correspondent relations with domestic and foreign banks;
(f)   issue bonds or other financial instruments; and
(g)   acquire property in the Republic of K.
Chapter 3.
After 3.1 write: Foreign and domestic financial institutions, private entrepreneurs, farmers, their
associations and companies, as well as any other legal or physical entities, that support the
objectives of the corporation, can become shareholders of the corporation.
The shareholders general meeting will decide on and approve the procedures for the issue of
shares to legal and physical entities and the terms and conditions for the sale of shares. (This
para. will replace the existing para. 3.2)



51                            ANNEX D
Before the existing chapter 5 should come the heading "Management of the Company".
5.1   The company is managed by the shareholders general meeting, the board and the
executive director.
Following the introduction, as above, should come a section with the heading "The Shareholders
General Meeting of the Company":
The shareholders general meeting of the company is the highest governing body of the company.
The shareholders general meeting shall be convened by the Board of the company each year, no
later than xx days after the end of the financial year.
The shareholders or their authorized representatives perform the functions of the shareholders
general meeting of the company: The shareholders general meeting has the following rights:
(a)   to review and approve the annual report of the company;
(b)   to review and approve the annual budget and business plan of the company;
(c)   to elect or dismiss the members of the Board and the company's auditors;
(d)   to amend within the law and these statutes the instructions to the Board, auditors
or liquidators of the company;
(e)   approve the fees payable to the members of the Board and the auditors;
(f)   approve the distribution of the profits of the previous year and approve the
payment of dividends to shareholders;
(g)   decide on the terms and conditions for the issue of shares of the company; and
(h)   decide upon the issue of bonds and other financial instruments, including their
terms and conditions.
Decisions taken by the shareholders general meeting are taken by majority vote of the
shareholders with voting rights present at the meeting.
Extraordinary shareholders general meeting are summoned by the Board according to necessity
or at the request of the Board, auditors, or those shareholders who represent no less than ten
percent of the paid share capital of the company. The invitation to the general meeting should
include the reason for the request and the agenda of the meeting. The Board of the company has
to convene the shareholders general meeting no later than one month from the day of request.
The shareholders general meeting can discuss and take decisions only about those subjects listed
in the agenda of the invitation to the general meeting.



52                            ANNEX D
The general meeting has the right to take decisions if at least one half of the paid-in capital of the
company is represented. If the general meeting that was announced in time, has no deciding
rights due to the lack of quorum, a second meeting will be summoned with the same agenda
within 15 days after the first meeting. The second meeting has the right to take decisions
irrespective of the number of shares represented at the meeting.
The minutes of the shareholders general meeting have to be written. The minutes of the
shareholders general meeting is a public document for the shareholders of the company; every
shareholder has the right to request a copy of the minutes or any part thereof against payment of
a fee established by the company.
After the chapter on the general meeting should come the chapter "The Board of the Company
(the present chapter 5).
5.1   The shareholders general meeting elects the board of the company for one year. The
board will consist of 7 members. The first Board of the company will be approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers.
So long as the Government holds the majority of the paid in shares of the company, the Board
will comprise 3 members representing Government authorities (the Minister of Finance,
Economy and Agriculture or their representatives) and 3 members representing the private sector
from farmers' organizations or agribusiness companies. The seventh member of the Board will
be the Executive Director of the Company.
The members of the Board will elect the chairman and his/her deputy out of the members of the
Board.
The members of the Board have to be persons with experience in agriculture, economics or
finance and banking.
5.2   After Government will no longer hold the majority of the paid in shares of the company,
directors will be elected at the annual shareholders meeting by majority vote of shareholders.
5.3   The Board shall hold regular sessions at least once every quarter. If necessary,
extraordinary meetings can be convened by the Executive Director or by a request of at least
three members of the Board.
5.4   The Board supervises the activities of the Executive Director and the company's
operations, to ensure that they are in compliance with the law, the statutes of the company, the
decisions of the shareholders' general meeting and of the Board. The members of the Board are
personally liable to shareholders general meeting for the fulfillment of their obligations.



53                              ANNEX E
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SFCOP PROGRAM MANAGER
Background
The Government will contract KAFC to administer the implementation of a Small Farmers'
Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) that aims to provide small farmers with access to commercial
credit and to promote the establishment of Self-Help Organizations (FSOs) for farmers who
would like to have access to such credit. For this purpose, KAFC will create a special and
independent Department with separate accounts.  The Department will contract with
Development Entrepreneurs (DEs) to implement the objectives of SFCOP on its behalf. The
Department will agree, ex-ante, with the DEs on the annual work plans and budgets for lending
and establishment of FSOs. The Department will bear the risk of lending under SFCOP. The
Department will receive the proceeds of the IDA Credit as a grant from the Government and use
these funds for the purpose of the SFCOP only. The Department will be headed by a qualified
and experienced professional who will be designated as the Program Manager.
Program Manager
The candidate for this position should be a university graduate in agricultural economics or
business administration with, at least five years management experience in a similar position in
a cooperative or rural development banking institution. He/she should have proven managerial
and motivational skills, be a team player, financially astute and an excellent negotiator. He/she
should be energetic, creative, result-oriented and be committed to coaching local staff designated
to take over his/her tasks and responsibility in the future.
The Program Manager will be responsible and accountable to the Executive Director of KAFC
for the following:
*  efficient management of the resources allocated to the SFCOP;
*  selection and contracting of DEs;
*  supervision of implementation of the SFCOP;
*  evaluation and monitoring of SFCOP implementation;
*  reporting, accounting and auditing of SFCOP;
* coordination and liaison with government, donors, and other rural credit schemes;
*  provision of legal and administrative services required to implement SFCOP;
*  preparation of annual work plans and budgets for SFCOP activities; and
*  preparation and implementation of operational procedures and guidelines for SFCOP.



54                              ANNEX F
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (KAFC)
SFCOP LOAN APPLICATION FORM
Only an officially printed copy of this application will be accepted. There is no fee for this form nor for
filling it with KAFC. No person will be allowed to earn money from this application process. This
application is not a guarantee that you or anyone will receive a loan or any item from KAFC.
1. Peasant Farm Name:
Applicant's Name:_
Village:          Raion:           Oblast:          Tel.:_
Member of Farmer's Association? yes no Previous experience  _  years
Speciality:__                   Previous Position:
Family Members:         Able Bodied:         Employees:
I am a full time resident of this farm  yes  no
2. Details of Farm: Act No.
ha land total                         unirrigated
orchard /garden                       arable
pastures/meadow                       non cultivated
rented                          rent end
Special conditions or facts:
3. Cropping System:
1995:            ha of wheat yielded              MT
ha of barley yielded _        MT
ha of potato yielded _         MT
ha of potato yielded _         MT
ha of vegetables (carrot,pepper,tomato)      MT
ha of     yielded _            MT
ha of     yielded              MT
ha of     yielded _            MT
Total income from 1995 was         som.
1994:            ha of wheat yielded              MT
ha of barley yielded _        MT
ha of potato yielded           MT
ha of potato yielded _         MT
ha of vegetables (carrot,pepper,tomato)      MT
ha of  _  yielded _            MT
ha of     yielded              MT
ha of  _  yielded _            MT
Total income from 1994 was         som.
4. Other inputs:
Cattle:        Sheep:         Goats:        Horses:
Truck:         Tractor        Combine:
Equipment:_
General condition of equipment (new, good, poor, unusable):
Buildings:           Industrious spaces:
Other:
5. Credit Experience:
Previous loans from:
Amount:           Repayment (date/amount):
6. Business Plan for 1996:
Drnionti4o FvnonHi4. Ir~ce



55                               ANNEX F
1. Land (rent or taxes)
Equipment: rent                  repair
2. Seeds:
Fertilizer:
Fuel:
3. Own Labor:
in kind              in cash  Total:
Hired Labor:
in kind              in cash  Total:
Transport:
4. Sub-total:
5. Other Expenses:
Proiected Income:
1. Crop Sale:
wheat:                              _-
potato:                                                   barley:
_  other crops:
2. Other Sales:
meat/animals:
milk/butter:  ___
fruit:
3. Income non connected with production:
Other income:
4. Sub-total:
Total Projected Profit (Losses):
7. What is requested from MCI (detail of items and cost)?
Name                            Quantity     Cost         Price
Other Needs:
8. All statements in this application are true to the best of my ability. I understand
that any misrepresentations, errors or omissions may disqualify me from
participating in this program.
Signature                                          Date
This filled in application form must be given back only to MCI monitor, who will pass
it to MCI office in Bishkek. Monitor does not make a decision on your application
form, and there is no sense in giving him money or presents in order to be assisted
in receiving a credit. If there are cases of extortion, please, inform MCI office in
Bishkek, or call by the phone: (3312) 21-95-44.



56                                ANNEX G
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
SFCOP LOAN AGREEMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT NO.
(with the peasant farm)
This agreement is between the authorized representatives of:
1.    Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation at
2.                                      Peasant Farm at
(Land registration                               )
and
3.    Name Farmers Self-Help Organization                        Raion
OBJECTIVES
To promote the development of the agriculture private sector in Kyrgyz Republic by granting small,
short-term loans to private farms for production of
OBLIGATIONS
I.    KAFC agrees to:
1.    Provide credit of 10,000 som to the above said peasant farm. The credit shall be supplied in the
form of           kilos of wheat seat,         kilos potato seed,        liters of diesel fuel,
and           kilos of fertilizers.
2.     KAFC considers all supplies to be a credit which must be repaid by undermentioned scheme.
3.     KAFC will control the distribution of seed, fuel and fertilizers, repayment of the credit, and will
make sites as necessary.
II.    Mr.                            agrees to:
1.    Receive seeds, fuel, and fertilizers in the designated place as a loan equivalent to 10,000 (ten
thousand) som.
2.    When signing the contract to pay KAFC representative  som as contribution, which acts as
a commitment of farmer's intention to follow this contract properly. If peasant farm gives up the
contract and ordered supplies before actually receiving them, the money will be deducted by KAFC as a
compensation for the work done. If the contract is carried out properly, the money is considered the
farmer's contribution to project costs.



57                                ANNEX G
3.1    Repay the credit before                    at the interest rate of __  per month, that
form amount of____ som up to the end of the year.
3.2    Pre-term repayment is admitted. In this case the interest is calculated on the basis of the elapsed
time since the loan agreement was signed.
3.3   In case of repayment delay the peasant farm is obliged to pay a penalty for each day overdue at
the rate of_  _ percent per day from the total amount to repay.
3.4   If peasant farm fails to repay the full amount, including penalty, due to KAFC, KAFC has the
right to get through legal procedures a part of peasant farm's property (real estate, trucks, agricultural
equipment, cattle, etc.) for sale to reimburse its expenses and legal costs.
4.     The repayment of the credit will be deposited in a special bank account controlled by KAFC.
These funds will be used for further development of agriculture.
5.    In case supplies delivered are used by farmer not for designated objectives, the credit full amount
shall be returned to KAFC within 10 days.
6.    The peasant farm will provide a financial report to KAFC with a copy to the local Farmers' Self-
Help Organization.
III.   The Farmers' Self-Help Organization agrees to:
1.    Carry out the primary screening of the member's loan application and to recommend or not to
recommend the applicant;
2.    Assist KAFC in monitoring the loans and in collecting repayment from the member peasant
farmer; and
This contract is in effect from the date of signing until repayment is made to KAFC.
3.     By co-signing this agreement, the FSO representatives certifies that the FSO group agrees to
perform the tasks herein stated.
SIGNATURES
for KAFC                  for "Farmer"                    for FSO
Date
I,                     have deposited a pledge of 200 som.
Signature of person who has deposited a pledge                , date
Signature of person who has accepted a pledge                 , date



58                              ANNEX H
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Project Objectives         Activities or Strategies    Monitorable Indicators
1. Provide farmers and     Provide sub-loans to eligible   Number of clients by accounts
agribusiness enter-      farm and agribusiness enter-   will exceed 6,000 in 2000
prises with access to    prises.                     Average loan size of US$5,000 by 2000
credit.                                              Loan recovery rates not less than 75 percent.
2. Establish interim credit    Establish KAFC with     Subsidy-dependence index for KAFC
agency on commercial    financial and operational   will not exceed 30 percent.
basis.                  autonomy.                   On-lending interest rates will be at par
with commercial interest rate.
Loan transaction costs not to exceed
3 percent of loan amount.
3. Develop community-based  Promote establishment of   Subsidy-dependence index not to
rural financial institutions. FSOs.                 exceed 65 percent in 2000.
Graduation rate into RFIs will be at
least 400 in 2000.
On-lending interest rate will be at par
with commercial interest rates in 2000.
Number of FSOs established will be
not less than 200 each year of project
implementation.



59                            ANNEX I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF PROJECT SUPERVISION
Semester                  Expected Staff Requirement             StaffInput
(staff weeks)
FY98 II                   Rural Finance Specialist                  4
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
FY99 I                    Rural Finance Specialist                   6
Rural Institutions Specialist
Cooperative Specialist
FY99 II                   Rural Finance Specialist                   4
Agricultural Economist
Cooperative Specialist
FY2000 I                  Rural Financial Specialist                 6
Rural Institutions Specialist
Agricultural Economist
FY2000 II                 Rural Finance Specialist                  4
Rural Institutions Specialist
FY2001 I                  Rural Finance Specialist                   6
Cooperative Specialist
Agricultural Economist



60                                ANNEX J
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year   Disbursements       Cumulative           Profile Disbursement
Disbursement
and Quarter        by Quarter    by end of Quarter       Project      Agriculture
1998
Q3                 2.0               2.0                13             0.0
Q4                 1.0               3.0                19             0.0
1999
Q1                 2.0               5.0                31             1.5
Q2                 1.0               6.0               38              3.0
Q3                 1.0               7.0               44              4.4
Q4                 1.0               8.0                50             6.0
2000
Q1                 1.5               9.5               59               10
Q2                 1.0               10.5               66              14
Q3                 1.0               11.5               72              16
Q4                 1.5               13.0              81              18
2001
Q1                 1.5               14.5              91              22
Q2                 0.5               15.0               94             26
Q3                 0.5               15.5               97             30
Q4                 0.5               16.0              100             32



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
inflation and Uscane flates
Up to
Up to    Project
Negotiation  Start  96/97 97/98 98/99
Inflation (in %') /a
all
Annual ratea
Local                                     0.0     0.0  16.8  15.6   9.7
Foreign                                   0.0     0.0   2.0   2.1   2.3
Cpoundd rat*s
Local                                     0.0     0.0   8.4  25.9  41.6
Foreign                                   0.0     0.0   1.0   3.1   5.3
Zmahage -rates (Loa&I/ForNign) /b
all
Rates actually used                         17.0    17.0  18.2  20.8  22.8
Constant purchasing parity rates            17.0    17.0  18.2  20.8  22.8
* deviation                                  0.0      0.0  -0.2   0.2  -0.2
\a Yearly values are within Each Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints
Fri Apr 11 14:04:51 1997
E-o
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components   B a:se Costs



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
Table 1. Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (Headquarters)
Detailed Costa
Unit                                           Parameters (in 9)
Cost                                           Phy.          Gross    Summary Divisions
Quantities           (USS          Base Cost (USS '000)             Cont. For.   Tax                  Expenditure
Unit   96/97 97/98 9B/99 Total '000)   96/9~  97/98            98/99    Total   Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
I. Investment Costs
A. Line of Credit                           lumpsum                                       3,000.0  4,500.0  5,500.0 13,000.0   0.0  80.0   0.0    KAFC                  LOC
B. Equipment /a
1. Computers /b                            No.         3      4      1      8   2.5        7.5      10.0       2.5      20.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
2. Printers /c                             No.         2      2      1      5   1.2        2.4       2.4       1.2       6.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
3. Fax machine                             No.         1      1      -      2   0.4       0.4        0.4         -       0.8  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
4. Photocopier                             No.         2      1      -      3      1      2.0        1.0         -       3.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
5. Tele Inst.                              No.         2      3      1      6   0.2       0.4        0.6       0.2       1.2  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
6. Office furniture                        No.         1      -      -      1   1.5        1.5         -         -       1.5  16.0  50.0   0.0    KAFC             EQPT
Subtotal Zquipgmnt                                                                           14.2      14.4       3.9      32.5
C. Vehicles
1. Vehicles(4 wheel drive)                 No.         2      2      -      4    20      40.0       40.0         -      80.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC              VEH
2. Motorcycles                             No.        10      5      -    15       7     70.0       35.0         -    105.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    KAFC               VEH
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                           110.0      75.0          -    185.0
D. Head Quarters Salaries /d
1. Secretaries/ Inter. /e               manmonth      18    36    36    90  0.15          2.7        5.4       5.4      13.5  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
2. Credit/Accounting Staff /f           manmonth      18    36    36    90  0.25           4.5       9.0       9.0      22.5  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
3. Auditor                              manmonth       7    12    12    31  0.25          1.8        3.0       3.0       7.8  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
4. Branch Managers /g                   manmonth      28    48    48   124   0.3          8.4       14.4      14.4      37.2  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
5. Mobile Credit Officers  (MCO) /h  manmonth   180   120    60   360  0.25              45.0       30.0      15.0      90.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
6. Lawyer                               manmonth       6    12    12    30 0.325          2.0        3.9       3.9       9.8  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
7. Accountant                           manmonth       6    12    12    30 0.325          2.0        3.9       3.9       9.8  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
8. External Auditing Consultancy           year                                           6.0        6.0       6.0      18.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              SAL
Subtotal Head Quarters Salaries                                                              72.3      75.6      60.6    208.5
Total Invextzont Costs                                                                        3,196.5  4,665.0  5,564.5 13,426.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations and Maintenance /i
1. Communications                        month         6    12    12    30   0.8          4.8        9.6       9.6      24.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              OM
2. Vehicle Operations & Maintenance  month            12    24    24    60   0.5          6.0       12.0      12.0      30.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              OM
3. Travel costs                         lumpsum                                           2.4        4.8       4.8      12.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              OM
4. Supplies                              month         6    12    12    30   0.3          1.8       3.6        3.6       9.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              OM
5. Office Rent /j                        month        30    60    60   150  1.28         38.4      76.8       76.8    192.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC               OM
6. Drivers (4)                           month        24    48    48   120  0.24          5.8      11.5       11.5      28.8  16.0   0.0   0.0    KAFC              OM
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                            59.2    118.3    118.3    295.8
Total                                                                                          3,255.6  4,783.3  5,682.8 13,721.8
\a Obtained from draft project preparation report prepared by NORDIC Cons. Group.
\b 486
\c the price of Priners should be a bit less.
\d data obtained from the Project preparation report prepared by NORDIC Cons. Group. % of tax for the local staff
\e 3 staff are involved here.                                                                                                                                                                        z
\f 3 staff are involved here
\g 4 staff involved
\h 15 MCO's for the first year; 10 MCO's for the second year; 5 MCO's for the Third year.
\i Obtained from draft project preparation report prepared by NORDIC Cons. Group                                                                                                                      A
\j Rent is for 5 offices.
Fri Apr 11 14:04:57 1997
2-1 Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (Headquarters)



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
Table 2. Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program
Detailed Costs
Unit                                      Parameters (in %)
Cost                                      Phy.          Gross    Summary Divisions
Qulantities         (US$        Base Cost (US$ '000)          Cont. For.   Tax                  Expenditure
Unit   96/97 97/98 98/99 Total '000)  96/97   97/98   98/99   Total  Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
I. Investnt Costs
A. Line of Credit                      lumpsum                                       666.0   666.0   668.0 2,000.0   0.0  80.0   0.0    SFCOP               LOC
B.  qtinoy t /a
1. Computers /b                      No.          2      -     -      2   2.5       5.0        -        -     5.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    SFCOP            EQPT
2. Printers                          No.          1      -     -      1   1.2       1.2        -        -     1.2  16.0  90.0   0.0    SFCOP            EQPT
3. Fax machine                       No.          I     -      -      1   0.4      0.4         -        -     0.4  16.0  90.0   0.0    SFCOP            EQPT
4. Photocopier                       No.          1      -     -      1      1      1.0        -        -     1.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    SFCOP            EQPT
Subtotal *quipsont                                                                     7.6        -        -      7.6
C. Vehicles
1. Vehicles(4 wheel drive)           No.          2     -      -      2    20    40.0         -        -    40.0  16.0  90.0   0.0    SFCOP              VEH
D. NQ Salaries /c
1. Secretaries/ Interpreters    manmonth    14    18    12    44   0.3             4.2      5.4      3.6    13.2  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP              SAL
2. Secretaries                     manmonth       7    12    12    31   0.3        2.1      3.6      3.6      9.3  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP             SAL
Subtotal HQ Salaries                                                                   6.3      9.0      7.2    22.5
Total Investmnt Costs                                                                    719.9   675.0   675.2 2,070.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations and Maintenance
1. Local travel costs              lumpsum                                         3.0    18.0    12.0    33.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP                OM
2. Supplies                         month         6    12    12    30   0.3        1.8      3.6      3.6      9.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP             OM
3. Office Rent                       year                                          8.0      8.0      8.0    24.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP             OM                               ON
4. Translation, reproduction /d Lumpsum                                           46.4    30.0    20.0    96.4  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP                OM
5. Drivers (2)                      month        12    24    24    60  0.24        2.9      5.8      5.8    14.4  16.0   0.0   0.0    SFCOP              OM
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                     62.1    65.4    49.4   176.8
Total                                                                                     782.0   740.4   724.6 2,246.9
\a Obtained from draft project preparation report prepared by NORDIC Cons. Group.
\b 486
\c data obtained from the Project preparation report prepared by NORDIC Cons. Group. % of tax for the local staff
\d data obtained from project preparation report
Fri Apr 11 14:05:13 1997
3-t
3-1 Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
Table 3. Institutional and Policy Development Component
Detailed Costs
Unit                                      Parameters (in 4)
Cost                                      Phy.          Gross    summary Divisions
Quantities          (US$        Base Cost (US$ '000)          Cont. For.   Tax                  Expenditure
Unit     96/97 97/98 98/99 Total '000)  96/97   97/98   98/99   Total  Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
I. Investnant Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. KFPC - Foreign Technical Assistance
Credit Manager (Expert)                           manmonths       6    12    12    30    10    60.0   120.0   120.0   300.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                    FTA
Finance Controller (Expert)                       manmonths       6    12    12    30    10    60.0   120.0   120.0   300.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                    FTA
SFCOP Program Manager                             manmonths       6    12    12    30    10    60.0   120.0   120.0   300.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                    FTA
Personnel 6 Training                              manmonths       7    12    12    31       8    56.0    96.0    96.0   248.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                  FTA
Airfares                                            trip         12    24    24    60   4.8    57.6   115.2   115.2   288.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                    FTA
Subtotal RAC - Foreign Technical Assistance                                                         293.6   571.2   571.2 1,436.0
2. SFCOP - Foreign Technical Assistance
DE contracts /a                                   per year                                       200.0   300.0   300.0   800.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                 FTA
Airfares                                            trip          6     9      6    21   4.8    28.8    43.2    28.8   100.8  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                   FTA
Subtotal SFCOP - Foreign Technical Assistance                                                       228.8   343.2   328.8   900.8
3. FAC - Local Technical Assistance
Credit Manager Designate (Local)                  manmonths       6    12    12    30 0.325        2.0      3.9      3.9      9.8  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC              LTA
Finance Manager Designate                         manmonths       6    12    12    30   0.3        1.8      3.6      3.6      9.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC             LTA
Personnel & Training Manager Designate            manmonths       7    12    12    31   0.3        2.1      3.6      3.6      9.3  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC             LTA
Auditing Consultancy                               lumpsum                                         3.0      6.0      6.0    15.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC               LTA
Regional Credit Supervisor /b                     manmonths    21    36    36    93   0.3          6.3    10.8    10.8    27.9  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC                LTA
Program Supervisor                                manmonths       6    12    12    30   0.3        1.8      3.6      3.6      9.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC             LTA
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist              manmonths       6    12    12    30   0.3        1.8      3.6      3.6      9.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC              LTA
Auditing Consultancy                               lumpsum                                         3.0      6.0      6.0    15.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC               LTA
Subtotal fErC - Local Technical Assistance                                                           21.8    41.1    41.1   104.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                          544.2   955.5   941.1 2,440.8
B. Training
1. FE C - Local Training & Business Devloepsnt
Local Training /c                                  lumpsum                                       200.0   200.0   200.0   600.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC                LT
2. SFCOP - Local Training
Local Training /d                                  lumpsum                                       120.0   120.0   120.0   360.0  16.0   0.0   0.0    IPDC                LT
3. ALrC - International Training
International Training                             lumpsum                                        45.0    40.0    50.0   135.0  16.0 100.0   0.0    IPDC                IT
Subtotal Training                                                                                      365.0   360.0   370.0 1,095.0
Total                                                                                                        909.2 1,315.5 1,311.1 3,535.8
\a Development Entrepreneurs
\b 3 staff involved
\c yearly.
\d yearly.
Fri Apr 11 14:05:27 1997
4-1 Institutional and Policy Development Component



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
Proj.e  Cost Swunry
%     % Total
(Som '000)                     (US$ '000)           Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation             53,152.2 180,117.6 233,269.8  3,126.6 10,595.2 13,721.8             77        70
2. Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program                 10,269.0  27,928.3  38,197.3    604.1  1,642.8  2,246.9             73       12
3. Institutional and Policy Development Component  18,087.2  42,020.6  60,107.8  1,064.0  2,471.8  3,535.8                 70        18
Total  s-raS       COSTS                                   81,508.4 250,066.4 331,574.8  4,794.6 14,709.8 19,504.4             75       100
Physical Contingencies                                    4,881.3   7,370.6  12,252.0    287.1    433.6    720.7            60         4
Price Contingencies                                     23,397.3  71,271.3  94,668.5    175.9    524.0    699.9             75         4
Total PROJCT COSTS                                        109,787.0 328,708.3 438,495.3  5,257.6 15,667.4 20,925.0             75       107
Fri Apr 11 14:05:43 1997
P
5-1 Project Cost Summary



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
Protect Cost Summary
%     3 Total
(Som '000)                      (US$ '000)           Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Inveatnt Coats
B. Line of Credit                       51,000.0 204,000.0 255,000.0  3,000.0 12,000.0 15,000.0              80        77
C. Equipment                                78.4      603.3       681.7       4.6      35.5      40.1        89         -
D. Vehicles                                382.5   3,442.5   3,825.0         22.5    202.5    225.0          90         1
Z. Training
1. International Training                   -   2,295.0   2,295.0            -    135.0    135.0         100         1
2. Local Training                    16,320.0           -  16,320.0    960.0           -    960.0          -         5
Subtotal Training                       16,320.0   2,295.0  18,615.0    960.0    135.0  1,095.0              12         6
r. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign Technical Assistance             -  39,725.6  39,725.6            -  2,336.8  2,336.8         100        12
2. Local Technical Assistance         1,767.2          -   1,767.2    104.0            -    104.0          -         1
Subtotal Technical Assistance            1,767.2  39,725.6  41,492.9        104.0  2,336.8  2,440.8          96        13
G. Salaries                              3,926.2           -   3,926.2    231.0           -    231.0          -         1
Total Investment Coats                      73,474.2 250,066.4 323,540.6  4,322.0 14,709.8 19,031.8              77         98
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance              8,034.2           -   8,034.2    472.6           -    472.6          -         2
Total Recurrent Coats                        8,034.2           -   8,034.2    472.6           -    472.6          -          2
Total 5ASZLIU COSTS                          81,508.4 250,066.4 331,574.8  4,794.6 14,709.8 19,504.4               75      100
Physical Contingencies                      4,881.3   7,370.6  12,252.0    287.1    433.6    720.7              60         4
Price Contingencies                        23,397.3  71,271.3  94,668.5    175.9    524.0    699.9              75         4
Total PRDJtCT COSTS                         109,787.0 328,708.3 438,495.3  5,257.6 15,667.4 20,925.0              75       107
Fri Apr 11 14:05:50 1997                                                                                                                                                                           O.
6-1 Project Cost Summary



Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project
xpenditure AcOunts by Cocponents - Base Costs
(US  '000)
Kyrgyz      Small Farmer  Institutional
Agricultural       Credit       and Policy                Physical
Finance       Outreach      Development             Contingencies
Corporation       Program       Component    Total       %    Amount
I. Invsntnt Costs
B. Line of Credit                           13,000.0        2,000.0                - 15,000.0       -       -
C. Equipment                                    32.5             7.6               -     40.1   16.0    6.4
D. Vehicles                                    185.0            40.0               -    225.0   16.0   36.0
B. Training
1. International Training                       -               -          135.0    135.0   16.0   21.6
2. Local Training                               -               -          960.0    960.0   16.0  153.6
Subtotal Training                                   -              -        1,095.0  1,095.0   16.0  175.2
P. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign Technical Assistance                 -               -        2,336.6  2,336.8   16.0  373.9
2. Local Technical Assistance                   -               -          104.0    104.0   16.0   16.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance                       -              -        2,440.8  2,440.8   16.0  390.5
G. Salaries                                    208.5            22.5               -    231.0   16.0   37.0
Total Investrent Costs                          13,426.0         2,070.1        3,535.8 19,031.8    3.4  645.1
XI. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                    295.8           176.8               -    472.6   16.0   75.6
Total Reaurrent Costs                               295.8          176.8               -    472.6   16.0   75.6
Total RASU-1IU  COSTS                            13,721.8         2,246.9        3,535.8 19,504.4    3.7  720.7
Physical Contingencies                            115.5            39.5          565.7    720.7        -       -
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                                                                            0h
Inflation
Local                                         902.4           158.0          316.0  1,376.3        -       -
Foreign                                       373.9            50.7           99.4    524.0        -       -
Subtotal Inflation                            1,276.2           208.7          415.4  1,900.3        -       _
Devaluation                                    -787.1          -137.8         -275.5 -1,200.4        -       -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                      489.2            70.9          139.8    699.9    3.4   23.8
Total PRDJECT COSTS                              14,326.4         2,357.3        4,241.3 20,925.0    3.6  744.5
Taxes                                                  -              -               -         -      -       -
Foreign Exchange                               11,000.2         1,700.4        2,966.7 15,667.4    2.9  448.0
Fri Apr 11 14:06:06 1997
7-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs



68                APPENDIX 2
N
.    .   ..  .. .. ..
Cya
Na                                lU|U
i a    D>F                _     b   - *  |         I r g
N  ;0|l          i         M             ,           S E
35                                                      1  l||EE|||E_f              
| it l l 0M   1MS~N 22 



Kyrgyz Republic                                                                     Appendix 2
Rural Finance Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1997             1998             11999              2000
ID   Task Narne                                                           Duration Start   Finish   Q3 Q2  Q3  Q4  0Q1  0                    Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  02  03  Q4
24   Execution of subsidiary loan agreement with KAFC satisfactory to IDA    22d   9/11/97   9/30/97
25   Establish a Department in KAFC to administer SFCOP                      ld    7/1/97   7/1/97
26   Recruitment of key SFCOP staff                                          87d   6/2/97   9/30/97
27   SFCOP starts lending                                                   610d   9/1/97   12/31/99                        --I__
28   Project monitoring and evaluation                                      610d   9/1/97   12/31/9 
29   Mid-term review                                                         45d   6/1/98   7/31/98
30   Implementation completion report                                        87d   6/1/00   9/29/00
31   Project supervision missions                                           610d   9/1/97   12/31/99                                -
32   Project auditing                                                       545d   12/1/97  12/31/99     .
33  Project procurement                                                     675d  6/2/97  12/31/99                          = =-____
34   Project staff training                                                 675d   6/2/97   12/31/99     .       ____
35   Execution of DE contracts                                              610d   9/1/97   12/31/99
36   Project reporting                                                      95d   12/1/97  12/31                              - --
37   Project disbursements                                                  610d   9/1/97   12/31/99
38   Establishment of special accounts                                       22d   9/1/97  |9/30/97
39   Phase-out budgetary transfers                                          281d   1/2/    1/29/99
40   Charge positive interest rates                                         675d   6/2/97   12/31/99                             -
41   Establish eligibility criteria for budgetary transfers                  43d   6/2/97   7/30/97
tz
Task                                  Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Project: Kyrgyz Republic            Prress                                Rolled U Task
Date: 4/17/97                        rog                                         P             _       _
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone X
Page 2



Farm Rates of Return Analysis
Source of Data and Assumptions Made on the Farm Models
|  WITHOUT                        I |                  WITH
lWheat  |Vegetable|Sheep   |Potatoes |Unutilized Total   lWheat  |Vegetable Sheep   |Potatoes ITotal
Area in hectares (ha.) - land is not fully
utilized currently due to insufficient
working capital. Assumed that when financing
will be available for working capital, land will
be fully utilized.
80 Ha. Farm                             20        5        2        5       48       80           60        8        2       10       80
20 Ha. Farm                             10        1        1        3        5       20            6        8        1        5       20
10Ha. Farm                               2        1        0        1        6       10            3        4       0.5      2.5      10
50 Ha. Farm                              1      0.5        0       0.5       3        5            3       0.5      0.5        1        5
Aver. yield per hectare/head were
based from local farm data in January 97
Assumed that yield will increase by 15%
due to availability of high yielding seeds.  2.21  8.81    60.10    11.05                         2.60    10.36    60.10    13.00
Selling Price was based from local
farm data in January 97.           1600/ton  750/ton   12.66/kg  1700/ton                    1600/ton  750/ton   12.66/kg  1700/ton
Average Production Cash Cost Per Hectare
or Head was based from local farm data
in January 1997. Average Production Cost
for (With) Farm Models will decrease by 15%
because of volume discount.            1,415    2,864     349   17,656                          1,231    2,490      349   15,353



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 80 Ha. Farm (WITHOUT)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep  Potatoes  Unutilized (1)   Total
Area in hectares (ha.)               20         5      2         5      48             80
No. of livestock head per ha.                         10
Total no of livestock                                 20
Aver. yield per hectare/head        2.2      8.8  60.1       11.1                                IRR (without)     6%
No. of units                       44.2      44.0  1202      55.25
Measured in                        tons      tons     kg     tons
Unit Value                        1,600      750  12.66      1,700                       Notes: 1 Unutilized land due to lack of working capital
REVENUE                         r 70,720    33,023 15,217    93,925               212,885      2   15% lower in yield due to lack of
optimal input packages.
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                                 3   15% Cost is higher due to inefficient
Aver.Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,415  2,864    349    17,656                                       input supply and lack of competition.
Production Cash Cost             28,306    14,318  6,980    88,280                137,884 Assumptions:
50% of Production cost financed by others
GROSS MARGIN                    | 42,414    18,705  8,237    5,645                 75,001           30% Annual Interest rate
CASH FLOWS (WITHOUT)
DEC    JAN       FEB   MAR       APR      MAY JUNE   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV                 TOTAL (1)
REVENUE                                                                                                                                          <
Wheat                                                                          10,608  21,216 24,752 14,144                   70,720
Vegetables                                                                                    11,558 11,558  9,906            33,023
Sheep                                                                   3,043   3,043   3,043  3,043  3,043                    15,217
Potatoes                                                                                      32,874 32,874 28,178            93,925
3,043  13,651  24,259 72,227 61,619 38,084           212,885
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat                 14,153  5,661     1,415  1,415     1,415    1,415 2,831                                                 28,306
Vegetables             5,727  2,148       716    716      716      716   716      716    716  1,432                           14,318
Sheep                  2,792    698       349    349      349      349   349      349    349  1,047                            6,980
Potatoes              35,312 13,242     4,414  4,414     4,414    4,414 4,414   4,414   4,414  8,828                          88,280
57,984 21,749     6,894  6,894    6,894    6,894 8,310   5,479   5,479 11,307                          137,884
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat                -14,153  -5,661    -1,415 -1,415    -1,415   -1,415 -2,831  10,608  21,216 24,752 14,144                 42,414
Vegetables            -5,727  -2,148     -716   -716     -716    -716  -716    -716   -716 10,126 11,558  9,906               18,705
Sheep                 -2,792   -698      -349   -349     -349    -349 2,694   2,694   2,694   1,996  3,043                     8,237
Potatoes             -35,312 -13,242    -4,414 -4,414    -4,414   4,414 -4,414  -4,414  -4,414 24,046 32,874 28,178            5,645         IV
-57,984 -21,749    -6,894 -6,894    -6,894   -6,894 -5,267   8,172  18,780 60,920 61,619 38,084         75,001
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 80 Ha. Farm (WITH)
(Amounts ExDressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep    Potatoes  Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                  60        8         2      10     80
Estimated No. of livestock head per ha.                    10                       IRR (with)               11%
Total no of livestock                                      20
Average yield per hectare/head         2.6    10.36      60.1      13
No. of units                           156    82.88      1202    130
Measured in                           tons      tons       kg   tons
Unit Value                           1,600      750    12.66   1,700
REVENUE                            1249,600   62,160   15,212 221,000 547,972
Assumptions:
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                             80% of Production cost financed by KAFC
Aver.Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,231    2,490      349  15,353                        30% Annual Interest rate
Production Cash Cost                73,843   19,920    6,980 153,530 254,273
GROSS MARGIN                       1175,757   42,240    8,232  67,470 293,699
CASH FLOWS (WITH)
DEC      JAN    FEB   MAR       APR       MAY   JUNE   JULY   AUG          SEPT       OCT   NOV          TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                  37,440  74,880     87,360    49,920                249,600
Vegetables                                                                                21,756    21,756  18,647         62,160
Sheep                                                           3,042   3,042   3,042     3,042      3,042                 15,212
Potatoes                                                                                 77,350    77,350 66,299          221,000
3,042  40,482  77,922   189,508   152,068 84,946          547,972
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat        36,922   14,769  3,692  3,692    3,692    3,692   7,384                                                       73,843
Vegetables    7,968    2,988    996    996      996       996    996    996    996         1,992                           19,920
Sheep         2,792     698    349    349       349       349    349    349    349         1,047                            6,980
Potatoes     61,412   23,030  7,677   7,677    7,677    7,677   7,677   7,677   7,677     15,353                          153,530
109,094   41,485 12,714  12,714   12,714   12,714  16,406   9,022  9,022     18,392                           254,273
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat       -36,922  -14,769  -3,692  -3,692   -3,692   -3,692  -7,384  37,440  74,880    87,360    49,920                175,757
Vegetables    -7,968   -2,988   -996   -996     -996     -996   -996   -996   -996        19,764    21,756  18,647         42,240
Sheep        -2,792    -698   -349   -349       -349     -349   2,693   2,693  2,693       1,995     3,042                  8,232
Potatoes    -61,412  -23,030  -7,677  -7,677   -7,677   -7,677  -7,677  -7,677  -7,677   61,997    77,350 66,299           67,470
-109,094  -41,485 -12,714 -12,714  -12,714  -12,714 -13,364  31,460  68,900    171,116   152,068  84,946      293,699
X
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 20 Ha. Farrn (WITHOUT)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Veaetable SheeD  Potatoes  Unutilized (1)   Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                5        2       1        2       10            20
No. of livestock head per ha.                        10
Total no of livestock                                10
Aver. yield per hectare/head        2.2      8.8  60.1       11.1                               IRR (without)      6%
No. of units                      11.05      17.6   601      22.1
Measured in                        tons     tons     kg      tons
Unit Value                        1,600      750  12.66     1,700                        Notes: 1 Unutilized land due to lack of working capital
REVENUE                          17,680    13,209  7,609    37,570                 76,068      2   15% lower in yield due to lack of
optimal input packages.
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                                 3   15% Cost is higher due to inefficient
Aver.Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,415  2,864    349    17,656                                      input supply and lack of competition.
Production Cash Cost            |7,077      5,727  3,490    35,312                 51,606 Assumptions:
50% of Production cost financed by others
GROSS MARGIN                    110,603     7,482  4,119    2,258                  24,462           30% Annual Interest rate
CASH FLOWS (WITHOUT)
DEC   JAN        FEB   MAR       APR      MAY JUNE   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV                 TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                           2,652   5,304  6,188  3,536                   17,680
Vegetables                                                                                     4,623  4,623  3,962            13,209
Sheep                                                                   1,522   1,522   1,522  1,522  1,522                    7,609
Potatoes                                                                                      13,150 13,150 11,271            37,570
1,522   4,174   6,826 25,483 22,831 15,233            76,068
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat                  3,539  1,415      354    354       354      354   708                                                   7,077
Vegetables             2,291    859      286    286       286      286   286     286    286    573                             5,727
Sheep                  1,396    349      175    175       175      175   175     175    175    524                             3,490
Potatoes              14,125  5,297     1,766  1,766    1,766    1,766 1,766   1,766   1,766  3,531                           35,312
21,351  7,920    2,581  2,581     2,581    2,581 2,935   2,227   2,227  4,628                           51,606
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat                 -3,539 -1,415      -354   -354     -354    -354  -708   2,652   5,304  6,188  3,536                     10,603
Vegetables            -2,291   -859      -286   -286     -286    -286  -286    -286   -286  4,050  4,623  3,962                7,482
Sheep                 -1,396   -349     -175   -175      -175    -175 1,348   1,348   1,348    999  1,522                      4,119
Potatoes             -14,125 -5,297    -1,766 -1,766    -1,766   -1,766 -1,766  -1,766  -1,766  9,619 13,150 11,271            2,258
-21,351  -7,920    -2,581  -2,581    -2,581   -2,581 -1,413   1,948   4,600 20,856 22,831 15,233        24,462
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 20 Ha. Farm (WITH)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep    Potatoes  Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                    6         8        1       5      20
Estimated No. of livestock head per ha.                     10                        IRR (with)        9%
Total no of livestock                                       10
Average yield per hectare/head          2.6    10.36       60.1     13
No. of units                           15.6    82.88       601      65
Measured in                            tons     tons        kg    tons
Unit Value                            1,600      750      12.66   1,700
REVENUE                              24,960    62,160    7,606 110,500 205,226
Assumptions.
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                           80% of Production cost financed by KAFC
Aver.Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head   1,231    2,490       349  15,353                   30% Annual Interest rate
Production Cash Cost                  7,384    19,920    3,490  76,765 107,559
GROSS MARGIN                         17,576    42,240    4,116  33,735  97,667
CASH FLOWS (WITH)
DEC      JAN    FEB   MAR        APR      MAY   JUNE   JULY  AUG  SEPT   OCT   NOV                 TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                     3,744  7,488  8,736  4,992                  24,960
Vegetables                                                                             21,756 21,756 18,647           62,160
Sheep                                                             1,521   1,521  1,521  1,521  1,521                   7,606
Potatoes                                                                               38,675 38,675 33,149          110,500
1,521   5,265  9,009 70,688 66,944 51,796          205,226
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat          3,692    1,477    369    369      369       369     738                                                 7,384
Vegetables     7,968    2,988    996    996      996       996     996     996   996  1,992                           19,920
Sheep          1,396     349    175    175       175       175     175     175   175    524                            3,490
Potatoes     30,706   11,515  3,838  3,838      3,838    3,838   3,838   3,838  3,838  7,677                          76,765
43,762   16,329  5,378  5,378     5,378     5,378   5,747   5,009  5,009 10,193                        107,559
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat         -3,692   -1,477   -369   -369     -369      -369    -738   3,744  7,488  8,736  4,992                   17,576
Vegetables    -7,968   -2,988   -996   -996      -996     -996    -996    -996  -996 19,764 21,756 18,647             42,240
Sheep         -1,396     -349   -175   -175      -175     -175   1,347   1,347  1,347    998  1,521                    4,116           D
Potatoes     -30,706  -11,515  -3,838 -3,838    -3,838    -3,838  -3,838  -3,838 -3,838 30,998 38,675 33,149          33,735           IV
43,762  -16,329  -5,378 -5,378    -5,378    -5,378  -4,226    257  4,001 60,496 66,944 51,796           97,667
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 10 Ha. Farmn (WITH)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheeo    Potatoes  Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                   3        4        0 5     2.5     10
Estimated No of livestock head per ha.                     10                        IRR (with)        9%
Total no of livestock                                       5
Average yield per hectare/head         2.6    10.36       60.1     13
No. of units                           7.8    41.44     300.5    32.5
Measured in                           tons     tons        kg    tons
Unit Value                           1,600      750      12.66   1,700
REVENUE                             12,480    31,080    3,803  55,250 102,613
Assumptions
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                          80% of Production cost financed by KAFC
Aver Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,231    2,490      349  15,353                    30% Annual Interest rate
Production Cash Cost                 3,692     9,960    1,745  38,383  53,780
GROSS MARGIN                       | 8,788    21,120    2,058  16,867  48,833
CASH FLOWS (WITH)
DEC      JAN   FEB   MAR        APR      MAY   JUNE   JULY  AUG  SEPT   OCT   NOV                 TOTAL (1)
REVENUE                                                                                                                                       v
Wheat                                                                    1,872  3,744  4,368  2,496                  12,480
Vegetables                                                                            10,878 10,878  9,323           31,080
Sheep                                                             761     761   761    761    761                     3,803
Potatoes                                                                              19,338 19,338 16,574           55,250
761   2,633  4,505 35,345 33,473 25,897          102,613
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat          1,846     738   185    185       185       185     369                                                 3,692
Vegetables     3,984    1,494   498    498      498       498     498     498   498    996                            9,960
Sheep           698      175    87    87         87        87      87      87    87    262                            1,745
Potatoes     15,353    5,757 1,919  1,919      1,919    1,919   1,919   1,919  1,919  3,838                          38,383
21,881    8,164 2,689  2,689     2,689    2,689   2,873   2,504  2,504  5,096                          53,780
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat         -1,846     -738  -185   -185     -185      -185    -369   1,872  3,744  4,368  2,496                    8,788
Vegetables    -3,984   -1,494  -498   -498     -498      -498    -498    -498  -498  9,882 10,878  9,323             21,120
Sheep          -698      -175   -87    -87      -87       -87     674     674   674    499   761                      2,058
Potatoes     -15,353   -5,757 -1,919 -1,919    -1,919    -1,919  -1,919  -1,919 -1,919 15,500 19,338 16,574          16,867
-21,881   -8,164 -2,689  -2,689    -2,689    -2,689  -2,112  129  2,001 30,249 33,473 25,897           48,833
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 10 Ha. Farm (WITHOUT)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep Potatoes  Unutilized (1)     Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                 2         1                1        6             10
No. of livestock head per ha.                          10
Total no of livestock
Aver. yield per hectare/head        2.2       8.8   60.1       11.1                                IRR (without)      5%
No. of units                        4.42       8.8            11.05
Measured in                        tons      tons      kg      tons
Unit Value                         1,600      750  12.66      1,700                        Notes. 1 Unutilized land due to lack of working capital
REVENUE                            7,072     6,605           18,785                  32,462      2    15% lower in yield due to lack of
optimal input packages
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                                    3   15% Cost is higher due to inefficient
Aver.Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,415  2,864    349    17,656                                         input supply and lack of competition
Production Cash Cost            | 2,831      2,864           17,656                  23,351 Assumptions:
50% of Production cost financed by others
GROSS MARGIN                     F 4,241     3,741            1,129                   9,111           30% Annual Interest rate
CASH FLOWS (WITHOUT)
DEC   JAN        FEB   MAR        APR      MAY JUNE   JULY    AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV                 TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                             1,061   2,122  2,475  1,414                     7,072
Vegetables                                                                                       2,312  2,312  1,980              6,605
Sheep
Potatoes                                                                                         6,575  6,575  5,636             18,785
1,061   2,122  11,362 10,301  7,616            32,462
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat                   1,416    566       142    142       142      142   283                                                    2,831
Vegetables              1,146    430       143    143       143      143   143     143    143    286                              2,864
Sheep
Potatoes                7,062  2,648      883    883       883       883   883     883    883   1,766                            17,656
9,624  3,644     1,168  1,168     1,168    1,168 1,309   1,026   1,026  2,052                            23,351
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat                  -1,416   -566     -142   -142       -142     -142  -283   1,061   2,122   2,475  1,414                     4,241
Vegetables             -1,146   -430     -143   -143       -143     -143  -143    -143   -143  2,026  2,312  1,980                3,741
Sheep                                                                                                                                            >
Potatoes               -7,062 -2,648     -883   -883       -883     -883  -883    -883   -883  4,809  6,575  5,636                1,129         e
-9,624 -3,644    -1,168 -1,168    -1,168   -1,168 -1,309     35   1,096  9,310 10,301  7,616               9,111    
X
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 5 Ha. Farm (WITHOUT)
(Amounts Exoressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep Potatoes  Unutilized (1)     Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                 1       0.5              0.5        3              5
No. of livestock head per ha                           10
Total no of livestock
Aver. yield per hectare/head        2.2       8.8   60.1       11.1                                IRR (without)      5%
No. of units                        2 21       4.4            5.525
Measured in                        tons       tons     kg      tons
Unit Value                         1,600      750  12.66      1,700                        Notes: 1 Unutilized land due to lack of working capital
REVENUE                            3,536     3,302            9,393                  16,231      2   15% lower in yield due to lack of
optimal input packages.
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                                   3   15% Cost is higher due to inefficient
Aver.Prod Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,415   2,864    349    17,656                                         input supply and lack of competition.
Production Cash Cost               1,415     1,432            8,828                  11,675 Assumptions
50% of Production cost financed by others
GROSS MARGIN                     , 2,121     1,870              565                   4,556           30% Annual Interest rate
CASH FLOWS (WITHOUT)
DEC    JAN       FEB   MAR        APR      MAY JUNE   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV                  TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                              530   1,061   1,238    707                     3,536
Vegetables                                                                                       1,156  1,156    990              3,302
Sheep
Potatoes                                                                                         3,287  3,287  2,818              9,393
530   1,061   5,681  5,150  3,808             16,231
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat                    708    283        71      71       71       71   142                                                     1,415
Vegetables               573    215         72     72        72       72    72      72      72    143                             1,432
Sheep
Potatoes                3,531  1,324      441    441       441      441   441      441    441    883                              8,828
4,812  1,822      584    584        584      584   655     513    513   1,026                            11,675
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat                   -708   -283       -71    -71       -71       -71  -142     530   1,061   1,238    707                     2,121
Vegetables              -573   -215       -72    -72       -72       -72   -72      -72    -72   1,013  1,156    990              1,870
Sheep                                                                                                                                            >
Potatoes               -3,531  -1,324    -441   -441      -441    -441  -441    -441   -441   2,404  3,287  2,818                   565         I
-4,812  -1,822    -584   -584      -584     -584  -655       17    548  4,655  5,150  3,808                4,556
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



Appendix 4
FARM RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Farm Model for 5 Ha. Farm (WITH)
(Amounts Expressed in SOM)
Wheat Vegetable Sheep    Potatoes  Total
Area in hectares (ha.)                   3        0.5       0.5      1        5
Estimated No. of livestock head per ha                      10                        IRR (with)        10%
Total no of livestock                                        5
Average yield per hectare/head          2.6    10.36      60.1       13
No. of units                            7.8     5 18     300.5      13
Measured in                           tons      tons        kg    tons
Unit Value                            1,600      750     12.66   1,700
REVENUE                              12,480    3,885     3,803  22,100  42,268
Assumptions;
VARIABLE COSTS                                                                           80% of Production cost financed by KAFC
Aver Prod. Cash Cost Per Ha.or head  1,231     2,490      349  15,353                    30% Annual Interest rate
Production Cash Cost                  3,692    1,245     1,745  15,353  22,035
GROSS MARGIN                       I 8,788     2,640     2,058   6,747  20,233
CASH FLOWS (WITH)
DEC      JAN   FEB   MAR        APR       MAY   JUNE   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV               TOTAL (1)
REVENUE
Wheat                                                                     1,872  3,744  4,368  2,496                   12,480
Vegetables                                                                              1,360  1,360   1,165            3,885
Sheep                                                              761     761   761    761    761                     3,803
Potatoes                                                                                7,735  7,735  6,629           22,100
761   2,633  4,505 14,224 12,352  7,794            42,268
PRODUCTION COSTS
Wheat          1,846      738   185    185       185       185     369                                                  3,692
Vegetables      498       187    62     62        62        62      62      62    62    125                             1,245
Sheep           698       175    87     87        87        87      87      87    87    262                             1,745
Potatoes       6,141    2,303   768    768       768       768     768     768   768   1,535                          15,353
9,183    3,403  1,102  1,102    1,102     1,102   1,286     917   917   1,922                          22,035
GROSS MARGIN
Wheat         -1,846     -738  -185   -185      -185      -185    -369   1,872  3,744  4,368  2,496                    8,788
Vegetables      -498     -187   -62    -62       -62       -62      -62     -62   -62   1,235  1,360  1,165             2,640
Sheep           -698     -175   -87    -87       -87       -87     674     674   674    499   761                      2,058
Potatoes      -6,141   -2,303  -768   -768      -768      -768    -768    -768  -768  6,200  7,735  6,629              6,747
-9,183   -3,403 -1,102 -1,102    -1,102    -1,102    -525   1,716  3,588 12,302 12,352  7,794           20,233
Note: 1 - Totals may not add up due to rounding differences



IBRD 26822R
KAZAKSTAN
rO DJlomOi                      g    7   t  t   X    To~~~R Almal                                                                           T. AImc,,/
r2>,    ;r_  J-        ~~~~TALAS                 4>                                                             ./ISKKL                                                 W      ,       J9 t
k                               %~           ~~~~~~ ~ ~~ CHUIoIo                                       LkE. w~yk-Kl4     ~         R
'     DZHALAL-ABAD    9. -I
r-.                                          NARYN                  -< -                                     \   Kow.S~y~NY
)                        &                                             TahKy f)                        -7-             7/-  -                          a                         
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ TT 
Ky~yKy        
V         _^.                     O S H                                 A/0  , H
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
_ _       _    _     _    _ _        _    _     __T A J I K I S T A  N  _                Tg   (                                                                                                          --I    I IRAILROADS
/i%F   r--AKSTAN                     T FehRO                                T                                                                                                                --   OTHER ROADS
r -  t )  G\   K A z A K S T A N   \~ Y         g                                                                                                      69    NATIONAL CAPITAL
N ~~~.          AZ  KS ANOBLAST CAPITALS
L~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~~~~~~  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                       SELECTED   CITIES
rW    ( ees  \   _/                                    :                                                                                                    -  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOMR  OBLAST BOUNDARIES
5 B\;,o,g    YGY  E       50  SD10   130                           -         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OR-L8       _                                CHINA                h     h-;r-Z
AFGHANISTAN   -                                     o.c.p.o,p. of POh bopdo,.,
SEPTEMBE R I SPA






I



IMAGING
Report No.:        16470   KG
Type:     SAR



