Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24324
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29590; PPFI-Q0260; TF-20937; TF-29322)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION (US$16 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR THE
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
June 25, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, March 31, 1997)
Currency Unit = KGS
KGS 1 = US$ 0.0584
US$ I = KGS 17.1
(Exchange Rate Effective at Closing, June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = KGS
KGS 1 = US$ 0.0208
US$1 = KGS 48.0421
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC           Agricultural Consumer Cooperative
ASSP          Agricultural Support Services Project
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DE            Development Entrepreneur
EU TACIS      European Union Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
FDF           Farmers Development Fund
FINSAC        Financial Structural Adjustment Credit
FSO           Farmers' Self-Help Organization
GOK           Govemment of Kyrgyzstan
IAS           Intemational Accounting Standards
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IFAD          Intemational Fund For Agricultural Development
IFI           Intemational Financial Institution
KAFC          Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
KAS           Kyrgyz Accounting Standards
KGS           Kyrgyz Som
MIS           Management Information System
NBKR          National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic
NGO           Non-govemmental Organization
PFI           Participating Financial Institution
RFI           Rural Financial Intermediary
RFP II        Second Rural Finance Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDC           Swiss Development Corporation
SDI           Subsidy Dependence Index
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SFCOP         Small Farmers' Credit Outreach Program
SHG           Self-Help Group
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:   Hoonae Kim



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
KYRGYZ RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Benificiary Survey                                                      36
Annex 9. Summary of Credit Line Implementation                                   40
Annex 10. Summary of Financial and Operational Parameters Under the Project      41
Annex 11. Detailed Review of KAFC's Financial Statements                         43
Annex 12. Status on Conditions for Lifting the Suspension                        47






Project ID: P008520                                      Project Name: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Nanme: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29590;
PPFI-Q0260;
TF-20937; TF-29322
Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                    Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/27/1995                            Effective: 08/08/1997        08/08/1997
Appraisal:  03/21/1997                               MTR: 12/15/1999           12/15/1999
Approval:  06/05/1997                             Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2001
Borrower/Inmplementing Agency: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
(KAFC)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johaness F. Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis N. de Tray                        Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                               Michael A. Gould
Team Leader at ICR:  Hoonae Kirn                              Barnabas K. Zegge
ICR Primary Author:  Ranjan Ganguli; Sandra Broka
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background



The Rural Finance Project (RFP), the first rural finance operation supported by IDA, was designed during
a time of major economic and political change in the Kyrgyz Republic when there were very limited
institutional and human resources to support the transition from a centrally-directed command economy to
a market economy. Among IDA programs, the Financial Structural Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) pursued
banking sector reforms, including the liquidation of Agroprombank, which, until 1994, was the dominant
lender to the agricultural sector. Liquidation of the Agroprombank left the rural sector without an
institutional lender, and in response, the government provided credit to farmers through the regional
administrations of the ministries. This produced dismal results. In addition to the government credit
program, seven donor-sponsored rural credit schemes were started, but they were limited in their scope and
geographical coverage, utilized diverse mechanisms for lending, recovering loans, and managing risks, and
had widely varying on-lending interest rates. Meanwhile, because of their lack of knowledge and
understanding of the sector, commercial banks viewed lending to the agriculture sector as too risky and too
expensive. Furthermore, most banks did not have an adequate branch network to serve rural clients
In order to fill the gap, the government requested IDA support to develop a coherent and sustainable rural
finance scheme, which would benefit a large number of beneficiaries throughout the country. A Rural
Finance Survey was conducted and a Rural Finance Strategy was developed in 1996 as part of RFP
preparation. The results indicated that prospects for establishing a commercially viable rural finance
system were good and joint guarantees or group responsibility for each othee's loan appeared feasible and
compatible with Kyrgyz culture. As a "stop-gap" measure to fill the void in the rural finance system, the
Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC) was created to serve emerging private farms and rural
enterprises. KAFC was also designed to lend to groups who had traditionally been excluded from receiving
commercial credits.
Against this background, RFP, for SDRI 1.9 million (US$16 million equivalent), was approved in June
1997, became effective in August 1997, and closed on June 31, 2001. KAFC was the sole financial
intermediary envisioned in the PAD and remained so at the project closing. KAFC, despite its short tenure,
has established itself as the only sound financial institution that lends predominantly to agricultural and
associated borrowers. At closing, the repayment rates were good and the loan portfolio was expanding.
Per borrower request, the follow-up Second Rural Finance Project (RPF I) was approved in 1999 and,
among other activities, RFP II envisioned the inclusion of additional participating financial institutions
(PFIs) in addition to KAFC to increase competition and broaden the credit delivery mechanism. Dialogues
with three interested commercial banks were continuing at the time of this ICR preparation. An ICR
mission was originally scheduled to take place in September 2001, but due to the September 2001 tragedy,
the mission was postponed until March 2001.
Project Development Objectives. The project had two primary objectives: (a) in the short-term it was to
establish an interim institutional arrangement for lending to the agricultural and agribusiness sectors,
which, at that time, had no access to commercial bank credit; and (b) in the medium and long term, it was
to provide the basis for developing community-based financial services for the rural population. These
objectives reflected the essential priorities for the development of a rural finance system in the Kyrgyz
Republic as identified, at the time, by both the government and IDA.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the project; nevertheless, some important
modifications were introduced in the project design during implementation and are discussed in Section 4.1
below.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components: (a) KAFC Component (general credit line); (b) the pilot Small Farm
Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) Component for group-lending; and (c) Policy and Institutional
Framework Component.
The KAFC Component was designed to provide financial and institutional support to KAFC so that it
could support the on-going process of farm restructuring, agribusiness enterprise privatization, and private
sector development in the rural areas. Specific activities included: (a) establishment, capitalization,
management, and govemance of KAFC; (b) preparation of KAFC lending policies, procedures, and
business plan; and (c) provision of a credit line. The credit line was both for short-term working capital
loans for purchase of seasonal inputs and for diversified on-farm and agri-business investment lending.
The Pilot SFCOP Component was designed to develop, on a pilot basis, community-based rural finance
institutions to test the cooperative credit principles and lending to groups. The component was to support
establishment of farmer self-help organizations (FSOs), which were gradually to evolve into rural financial
intermediaries (RFIs).
The Policy and Institutional Framework Component was designed to support priority technical
assistance for KAFC, including specific support for the SFCOP. The component was to promote
institutional, legal, and policy changes, which would directly enhance successful achievement of the project
objectives. Specific activities included extensive support to KAFC in management and lending operations,
and training to staff in support for SFCOP implementation. The component was also intended to remove
several distortions, such as, interest rate subsidies and farm debt overhang, which were not conducive to the
development of a commercially sustainable rural finance system. Two donors provided parallel
co-financing for technical assistance for KAFC.
3.4 Revised Components:
While there were no major revisions of components, some adjustments were made. With its initial success,
KAFC attracted the support of other donors, particularly the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), so an unexpected second
group-lending model was added to KAFC operations. Implementation challenges and outstanding issues
related to this change are discussed in Section 4.2 below. Donors provided alternative funds for technical
assistance and institution building under RFP, and as a result, IDA financing of the third component for
technical assistance was reduced to US$40,000 and unutilized funds were reallocated to increase the credit
line components. The revised project costs and financing sources are summarized in Annex 2.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to QAG and QER processes. However, the project design at inception
adequately covered financial, economic, social, institutional, and other fiduciary aspects, and it was deemed
satisfactory. Furthermore, the country pursued tight monetary policies and annual inflation was brought
down from over 100 percent in 1992 to less than 35 percent in 1996. Interest rates followed a similar path,
hence the macroeconomic prerequisites were in place to roll out the first rural finance operation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
- 3-



The overall objectives of the project, lending to the agricultural sector and creation of the basis for
developing community-based financial services for the nrual population, have been satisfactorily achieved
through the establishment of KAFC, a temporary institutional arrangement. KAFC effectively filled the
rural financial intermediation gap in the country and has served a large number of dispersed rural clients.
In a relatively short period, KAFC managed to achieve the near impossible task of establishing a new
institution, which has become the major player in the rural finance market with a solid reputation, public
recognition, and trust. The institution has become a household name amongst poor farmers throughout the
country, and more importantly, it has established a long-absent disciplined credit culture where repayment
and repeated access based on good perfornance were emphasized.
Regarding the development of community-based group-lending based on social collateral; the outcome has
been limited mainly due to changes in the group-lending strategy of KAFC. The project's vision of
community-based and managed financial institutions, operating on the basis of cooperative principles of
self-help, democracy, and cost-effectiveness, proved to be much more difficult than expected. The fact that
KAFC was receiving different donor-driven support for group-lending may have also reduced the
effectiveness of its group-lending operation. KAFC initially had one group-lending model, SFCOP, but
later another donor added a second model, Farmers Development Fund (FDF). The KAFC overall
group-lending portfolio is now under duress because the design of the two models was significantly
different as were the operational procedures, legal and operational status of groups, group formation
support schemes, etc. As a result, a substantial degree of confusion and inconsistency ensued and in order
to rectify the situation, the government requested IDA support to consolidate KAFCs group-lending into a
coherent, efficient, and adequately managed risk-based operation. Restructuring is on-going under RFP II,
and donors are fully engaged in the process.
The objective to create a commercially viable, cost-conscious agency was partially achieved as KAFC
continues to reduce cost and improve operational efficiency. KAFC received substantial development
support from the government, which injected cash into KAFC as government equity shares, provided
in-kind support, for example buildings, free of charge technical assistance, and capitalization of interest due
on subsidiary loans, thereby helping reduce the overall cost of KAFC. As these are forns of subsidies,
KAFC had a high Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI). Now that the amount and types of subsidies are
declining, so, too, is the SDI index. Overall, KAFC is likely to be sustainable allowing it to continue its
mandate to provide commercial credit to rural clients (see section 6 for more discussion). In summary, the
project is a good example of the successful utilization of a practical, innovative, stop-gap model, which was
also tested in other countries in the region, to fill a complete absence of financial intermediation for
post-privatization agricultural clients. Tens of thousands of poor, small-scale farmers and agricultural
entrepreneurs in all corners of the country were able to access commercial credit for the first time. This
gave them the opportunity to build productive means to earn income, improve living standards and learn
about responsibility and accountability as borrowers.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents:
Original Targets. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states that the project was to be implemented in four
years, providing loans to over 6,000 clients by year 2000 under the general credit line and to at least 200
farmer groups annually under the SFCOP, of which, at least 400 would graduate as RFIs in 2000. The
average loan size would reach US$5,000. KAFC was to start lending in the second half of 1997 and by
end-December 1997 was expected to achieve an outstanding loan portfolio of US$3.0 million equivalent. It
was also envisioned that during the first two years, KAFC was to concentrate on seasonal lending.
Actual Achievements. KAFC lending activity started briskly and continued to expand rapidly during
- 4 -



implemnentation. The project's disbursement exceeded appraisal estimates from the beginning. KAFC
started lending in mid-1997 and by the end of 1999, it already had about KGS27 million (US$1.5 million)
in total outstanding loans, which in the following year grew to KGS 113 million (420 percent growth). By
the end of 2000, KAFC loan portfolio more than tripled to KGS 440 million with over 11,600 sub-loans
and 10,000 active borrowers. At closing, the average loan size for KAFC's overall portfolio was about
US$1,000 equivalent, with average group loans as small as US$230, and average individual loan size as
large as US$1420, which were all below the appraisal average of US$5,000 equivalent.
In termns of creating outreach, that is, providing access to small-scale farmers in remote areas, the project
has achieved excellent results. At closing, KAFC had helped over 15,000 individual borrowers, of which
2,700 were repeat clients, and over 1,750 group clients, of which over 550 were repeat borrowers. The
total number of direct beneficiaries, borrowing individually and through groups, was over 30,000, and they
were from broad geographical, social, and economic backgrounds. Today, the numbers and the scope of
outreach continue to expand. Although KAFC had made loans mostly to borrowers engaged in primary
agricultural production, it has now started to lend to agro-processing, agri-business and non-agricultural
activities in rural areas.
Disbursement During the first year of operation, KAFC withdrew US$2.15 million, and by the second
year, the annual disbursement grew to US$7.25 million. In early 1999, an IDA supervision mission
discovered that KAFC was withdrawing funds without a full list of sub-loans to match each withdrawal.
This issue was addressed promptly by KAFC and resulted in a decline in the disbursement rate in 1999 to
US$3.05 million. The slow down in disbursement was also due to the fact that KAFC was liquidating its
sizeable holding of treasury bonds (as much as 50 percent of total assets) to disburse for sub-loans.
Disbursements were further affected when in June 2000, IDA officially suspended the project following a
political decision by the government to issue interest subsidies through KAFC. This violated one of the key
agreements of the Development Credit Agreement and triggered the suspension, which lasted three months.
As a result, the overall disbursement in 2000 was only about US$2.44 million. Despite these events,
KAFC withdrew the full IDA credit and the project was closed on schedule.
Component 1: KAFC Component (General Credit Line)
The component was designed to support KAFC development to enable it to provide credit on commercial
terms in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
government.
KAFC was established by Government Decree No.303 of July 2, 1996, was formally registered as a joint
stock company in December 1996, and was subsequently licensed in March 1997 by the National Bank of
Kyrgyz Republic (NBK). KAFC was supposed to be supervised by the NBK as a non-bank financial
institution. Although NBK's regular supervision did not start until 1999, KAFC operated according to the
prudential norms applicable to banks on capital adequacy, exposure limits, classification of loan portfolio,
provisioning and other rules of prudent banking (minus deposit). In addition, in some cases stricter
parameters were applied to KAFC, as it initially had to maintain a 33 percent capital adequacy ratio as
required in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which was well above the NBK's 6 percent requirement for
banks. Initially, the Board of Directors of KAFC was to consist of three members representing the
Government and three members representing the private sector. The seventh member of the Board would
be the Executive Director of KAFC. In reality, the Board members are mostly representing the
Govermment, and the Board has generally provided only cursory supervisory functions. KAFC, with a
competent management team and a dynamic executive director, was able to chart its own course and
expand KAFC into a nationwide credit institution with one of the largest number of clients among all
- 5-



financial institutions in the country. Initially, KAFC started its lending operations in six oblasts and
planned to have 35 staff. At closing, KAFC nationwide network had expanded to 11 branch offices and
249 staff, of which 72 were at headquarters. The project design envisioned a mobile team for collecting
and appraising credit applications with an aim to minimize fixed costs; however, this never materialized.
The KAFC management was required to prepare a draft lending operations manual and submit it to IDA
for review, and the adoption of the manual by the KAFC Board was a condition of effectiveness. It was
also agreed during appraisal that external auditors will be hired and retained annually by KAFC to review
at random 10 percent of its outstanding loan portfolio and recommend corrective actions. During the
implementation, KAFC and the IDA team agreed that the operational manual needed significant
modifications reflecting the dynamic changes occurring in the institution and in the market. The revised
general operational manual is in place and staff training has commenced.
Capitalization of KAFC. The SAR states that the initial registered share capital of KAFC would be
US$ 10.0 million equivalent, which would increase as lending increased. In addition to the initial
contribution to the share capital by the government, the project provided the first US$2.0 million equivalent
withdrawn by KAFC from the IDA Credit and 25 percent of all subsequent withdrawals as the
government's capital shares in KAFC. This arrangement, defacto, automatically guaranteed that KAFC
would meet the required capital adequacy. In addition, KAFC was also given the mandate to recover
outstanding government loans of about US$17 million equivalent, which, once recovered, would also be
subscribed as government shares in KAFC. In reality, less than US$700,000 was recovered, the bulk of
which was an in-kind payment. At closing, KAFC was 100 percent owned by the government with the paid
in capital of US$6.1 million equivalent, with 41 percent capital adequacy.
Table 1: Comparison of Financial Requirements at Appraisal and Completion
Financial requirements                            At appraisal       As of June 30, 2001
Capital to risk assets (to be lowered to 25% with satisfactory  33%   Fully complied with
loan portfolio performance)
Maximum loan size for individual or corporate borrower to be  10%     Complied with
limited to 10% of the paid-up capital, or US$250,000,
whichever smaller
Minimum debt service ratio 1: 1.5, including taxes and liabilities 1:1.5  Complied with
to all lenders
Loan recovery performance of minimum 75%          75%                 88% average maintained
for three loan products
Source and Use of Funds for KAFC's Lending Operation. Under the project, KAFC received the entire
IDA credit amount equivalent to US$15.96 million. The government also injected its own cash resources
of approximately US$0.98 million. Several other foreign donors had provided grant-based technical
assistance. The IDA funds were provided in the form of subsidiary loans to and charter capital for KAFC
as follows: (a) a subsidiary loan for general credit line in the amount of KGS285 million; (b) an
interest-free subsidiary loan for SFCOP in the amount of KGS41 million; and (c) government's share
capital for the amount of KGS 130 million.
Overall Cost of Funding to KAFC. KAFC received the IDA funds from the govemment both as capital
and subsidiary loans, including an interest-free subsidiary loan for SFCOP. Because of this blending of
funds, during the first year of operation, KAFC received the funds at no cost. During the subsequent years,
KAFC effective cost of funds varied from 5.6 percent to 10.3 percent. In comparison, KAFC actual
- 6 -



interest rates to ultimate borrowers were substantially positive, ranging between 25 percent to 34 percent.
This gave the KAFC an average margin as high as 30 percent during the initial year, which declined to only
about 15 percent at the time of closing. It is primarily because of the low cost of funding, KAFC was able
to generate a positive return on the equity invested by the government. The trend suggests that KAFC
would be worth at least the value of the funds injected by the government in two to three years. At
appraisal the Subsidy-Dependence Index (SDI) for KAFC was not to exceed 30 percent. Although
declining, in reality, the SDIs were much higher. However, by the time of closing, the SDI had declined
dramatically to less than 10 percent.
KAFC, as a relatively new institution, also pursuing "social" goals, justified relatively high government
support. A remaining challenge for the future is how to reduce the government funding support while
KAFC streamlines its product line and operations and at the same time, realigns its corporate strategy to
maintain a more sustainable loan portfolio, with less emphasis on delivering public goods (see Annex 8 and
Annex 11 for more detailed information).
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans. The government has two outstanding subsidiary loans,
which were provided to KAFC. The government agreed to bear the foreign exchange risk by on-lending the
IDA funds in local currency with a fifteen-year maturity, including five years of grace. The subsidiary
loans were supposed to be on-lent to KAFC based on variable interest rates indexed to the annual inflation
rate projected by NBK. In reality, the interest rates charged on the subsidiary loan ranged between 12 to
20 percent per annum, which were generally in line with the inflation rates, with the exception of 1999
when inflation suddenly jumped to over 39 percent following the Russian crisis.
Loan Portfolio: KAFC has three credit facilities; a general credit line to individual borrowers based on
physical collateral and two group-lending facilities based on peer group pressure as social collateral. At
closing, KAFC outstanding loan portfolio was predominantly for short-term working capital loans, with
less than 20 percent for investment loans, mostly to purchase livestock. Overall, 47 percent of the credit
was used for livestock, 21 percent for mixed crop and livestock, 17 percent for agro-processing, and 15
percent for crop production. Over the four years of implementation between 1997 and 2001, KAFC has
achieved:
Significant Outreach serving a large number of Beneficiaries:
* Total number of individual loans of over 16,000, including about 2,700 for repeat borrowers;
* Total number of group loans of around 2,300, including about 550 for repeat borrowers; and
* Total number of beneficiaries was over 30,000, and growing.
Total Loan Portfolio:
* Total loans approved in the amnount of KGS 1,290 million;
*  Total injection of liquidity to the rural sector in the amount of 1,207 million KGS;
* As of June 30, 2001, KAFC's outstanding portfolio was 614 million KGS, with 79 percent for the
general credit line, 22 percent for group-lending;
*  Average sub-loan size was KGS68,000 (US$1,420) for the general credit line, KGS23,000
(US$480) per SFCOP group member, and KGS 11,000 (US$230) per FDF group member;
* Average interest rate to the ultimate borrower during the implementation was about 29 percent,
which had declined to about 20 percent at the time of closing;
*  Most of sub-loans made were for working capital with increasing shares of investment loans
- 7-



(mostly for livestock) with the aggregate average maturity of about 1.5 years; and
* Achieved average annual growth of 200 percent of loan portfolio.
Portfolio Quality:
*  Loan loss provision was in the amount of KGS44 million, with a net loan portfolio of about KGS
570 million;
*  The loan provision appears reasonable at 7 percent at the time of closing, and has been declining
(the lAS-based loan provision was 10.2 percent at the end of 2000 and 8.3 percent in 1999);
*  The proportion of loans outstanding and more than 30 days overdue increased from 3.4 percent as
at December 31, 2000 to 6.0 percent as at June 30, 2001;
*  Maintained satisfactory repayment performance of around 87 percent; and
* Adequately covers the cost of funding, administration cost, and risk premium.
Project Impact to Date:
* Filled the critical gap in agricultural finance;
*  Provided an opportunity for the government to discontinue publicly administered, subsidized credit;
* Started to induce borrowers' behavioral changes regarding prudent borrowing and obligation to
repay;
*  Established a good initial foundation for commercial crediting in the agricultural sector; and
*  Started to demonstrate to commercial banks that lending to the agricultural sector can be
commercially and financially viable.
Portfolio Composition. During the initial two years, KAFC was to make only short-term loans until it
built its capacity and client base. This trend continued throughout the four years of implementation, and at
closing, overall KAFC portfolio was predominantly working capital, with substantial support for livestock.
The composition of the loan portfolio by use is summarized in Annex 9.
Terms and Conditions of KAFC Lending to Ultimate Borrowers. KAFC assumed the risk of the
outstanding loan portfolio to ultimate borrowers. The original design called for sub-loan repayment
schedules to be based on the projected cash-flow and borrower's repayment capacity, with matching
production/repayment cycles, positive real interest rates with short-term interest rates revised once a year
and investment loans based on variable interest rates indexed to the projected rate of inflation. KAFC
would add its cost of funds at a margin from 5 to 8 percent. In reality, during the initial years, the KAFC
lending operation deviated from the terms and conditions stated in the SAR; namely that most of the loans
made under RFP were for working capital and were offered at fixed rates, and all were due at the end of
one year without taking the cash-flow cycle into account. In addition, as discussed above, KAFC margins
were high. Several adjustments on KAFC terms and conditions were made during the implementation, in
consultation with IDA supervision mission teams. Still much progress is needed to reduce KAFC
administrative costs and loan loss provisions as discussed below.
Repayment rates. While the overall average repayment rate remained well above the target rate of 75
percent, one area of concern at closing was the downward trend of the repayment rates. At closing, the
repayment rate of the general credit line was 91.3 percent, which was slightly higher than the 84 percent
achieved at the end of 1998. Similarly, the repayment rate for SFCOP, the worst of all three, was 86.5
percent, down from 93 percent in 1998. FDF, a relatively new product, also showed a declining trend,
down from 99.5 percent in the first year of operation to 95.6 percent at closing.
- 8 -



The declining repayment rates could be due to several factors. First, KAFC had significantly increased the
number of loans made immediately following the 2000 Presidential Decree, most of which are now coming
due. There are also signs of duress within KAFC from over-stretched institutional and human resources.
The loan-to-staff ratio was worsening as each loan officer managed an increasing number of loans and
clients; sometimes as many as 400 per loan officer. Subsequently, loan appraisal quality suffered and
frequency of field supervision and loan monitoring also declined which aggravated the repayment
performance. Meanwhile KAFC has begun to implement additional credit lines sourced from other
intemational financial institutions. While diversifying the source of funds and product lines is desirable,
KAFC should take a slower pace while the identified capacity gaps, including the MIS, loan monitoring,
institutional reorganization with appropriate staffing etc., are adequately filled. This issue has been
identified and discussed during supervision and continues to be addressed during the implementation of the
RFP II.
High Cost of Intermediation. The SAR stated that the loan transaction costs were not to exceed 3 percent
of the loan amount. This was overly optimistic and unachievable for a newly created institution like
KAFC. As a new institution in the process of developing capacity, KAFC cost of operation included not
only the current costs but development costs as well, including staff training, branch expansion, facility
costs, MIS, and provision of office equipment. Each year, KAFC managed to lower its costs. According
to Kyrgyz Accounting Standards (KAS), KAFC administrative costs declined from 28 percent in 1998 to
16 percent in 2001, which if adjusted to IAS, showed substantially higher but dramatically declining costs
from 49 percent in 1998 to less than 21 percent in 2001. Irrespective of the accounting standard applied,
however, KAFC is still some way away from the target of 8 percent by year-end 2004 (administrative cost
plus loan loss provision), which was agreed to during the RFP II negotiations in 1999 (see Annex 11 for
detailed financial and operational results). In order to be sustainable, KAFC must pay greater attention to
the quality of the loan portfolio and to loan monitoring. Streamlining the internal organizational structure,
improving operational procedures, and automation of MIS, among other changes, are measures that KAFC
urgently needs to undertake if it is to achieve the aforementioned target It is the ICR mission view that
KAFC has not yet achieved the full operational efficiency at the time of closing and has room to improve.
This issue continues to be addressed during RFP II supervision.
Future of KAFC
KAFC's own projections continue to be bullish. According to the 2002 business plan, the KAFC loan
portfolio is expected to grow by 81 percent from KGS638 million at year-end 2001 to KGS1,155 million at
year-end 2002. This is equivalent to an increase of approximately US$12 million. This seems to be a very
ambitious target and will require a substantial increase in new disbursements in addition to re-lending of the
reflows. KAFC has signed a subsidiary loan agreement with the Asian Development Bank to on-lend about
US$10 million equivalent to agri-business clients in Chui Oblast
Component II: Pilot SFCOP Component
This component calledfor a pilot group-lending operation under the name of Small Farmers Credit
Outreach Program (SFCOP).
The original project design assumed a superior repayment under a group-borrowing model where
repayment is enforced by farner groups. It was also assumed that this approach would mitigate the
problems of imperfect borrower information and repayment enforcement. Groups established voluntarily
were thought to be more cohesive in the sociological sense and to share a higher degree of mutual trust than
-9-



those established under covert duress, for example, groups being formed purely to borrow. In order to be
effective, the process required the training of members and the adoption of effective repayment
mechanisms, including the threat to cut off future access to credit. In such an environment, peer pressure
was known to be an effective tool to induce prompt and full repayment.
Under this component, however, the actual outcome differed somewhat from the original design. First,
KAFC ended up implementing two different types of group-lending with different group formation support,
legal status, operational and organizational structures, and fnancial characteristics of typical group
members. When the project was designed, KAFC had only one group-lending model, SFCOP, but, as
mentioned earlier, during implementation in late 1998, a second group-lending model, FDF, was added.
FDF is a part of the IFAD/IDA co-financed Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). UNDP
provided substantial group formation support for FDF.
The addition of the second model led to substantial changes in the SFCOP design. In August 1997, KAFC
established a separate SFCOP Department with a Program Manager to implement SFCOP on a pilot basis
to develop group-lending methodologies to give poor households access to commercial credit and other
financial services. The scope of SFCOP in the pilot phase was to develop farmer self-help organizations
(FSOs) with the anticipation that they would be transformed into rural financial intermediaries (RFIs).
Two or three local or foreign private Development Entrepreneurs (DEs) were to be contracted to act as
financial intermediaries and promoters of FSOs. In order to achieve these goals, the US$2 million
equivalent SFCOP credit line was to be supported by US$1 million equivalent in technical assistance (TA)
from the project. Instead, a short-term consultant provided TA; and the envisioned legal framework for the
formation of FSOs evolved into Agricultural Consumer Cooperatives (ACCs); no DEs were contracted,
and the ACC group loan was fully collateralized with physical assets, up to 130 percent of the loan amount
by each individual member. Members of the ACC were, for the most part, eligible to receive credit as
individuals from the KAFC main credit line. Loan sizes were not much smaller than the smallest loans for
individuals (KGS15,000 for first loans to ACC members vs. KGS 20,000 for individuals), and interest
rates and terms were identical for a loan product that theoretically required more work.
KAFC concurrently negotiated with IFAD and UNDP and started FDF with a US$1.5 million line of
credit. In late 1998, UNDP started TA and training in group formation and development in support of
rural, village-based self-help groups (SHGs). In February 1999, less than four months after TA started,
KAFC began lending to SHGs even though the first tranche of IFAD funds was not received until the end
of July. Within one year, KAFC made loans to 349 SHGs with a total number of approximately 2,433
members and disbursed KGS 12.5 million (approximately US$275,000). FDF loans were made for one
year at an average interest rate of 29 percent with no physical collateral requirements.
While commendable for its initiatives, KAFC was not able to develop a coherent, consistent group-lending
model as was envisioned in the project. Availability of alternative credit lines, and a grant for TA based on
different group-lending models also added to complexity. By all accounts, the credit delivery mechanism
developed under SFCOP and FDF was not sustainable. In addition to being very expensive, the FDF
related TA grant was also designed for a specific "volunteei" model. Meanwhile, SFCOP was left without
any donor funding to develop cohesive groups and the concept of RFIs, as the second step of the SFCOP
pilot program, did not materialize. Therefore, KAFC loan officers at the regional level were responsible for
both group formation (for which they had little understanding and no training) and loan review and
processing (for which they needed additional training). As a result, there was very little group
development, group monitoring also suffered, and repayment of SFCOP and FDF both started to decline.
In June 2000, the IDA team recommended that KAFC suspend the new group-lending scheme until a
uniform group-lending strategy could be developed. Only reflows from the already existing group loans
- 10-



were allowed to be on-lent again.
During the preparation of the Second Rural Finance Project, all concerned parties, including the
government, agreed that a coherent, consistent, group-formnation strategy, as well as developed lending
operational procedures were necessary. As a result, a separate component with the aim to restructure the
KAFC group-lending operation was included in RFP II. The RFP II design calls for combining SFCOP
with FDF to create one consistent sustainable group formation model as well as to establish a meaningful
social collateral system. The TA provider has already agreed to modify its group formation support to
reflect the new concept of group-lending, which will be based on legally registered groups with statutes and
internal operational guidelines with a stronger emphasis on financial and risk management capacity at the
group level. The ICR assessment is that during the period of project implementation, the change of focus
and emphasis on the quality of groups rather than the number of groups and amount lent was correct.
However, after four years of "piloting and testing" and building on the experience gained, the focus should
now shift to consolidation, strengthening and internal growth of the group-lending system, rather than on
the creation of more groups, especially since small groups would not be sustainable once they begin
mobilizing savings and are required to pay for training services provided.
Component m: Policy and Institutional Framework Development Component
This component was designed to provide institutional development technical assistance to KAFC
management, the SFCOP Department in KAFC, Development Entrepreneurs, and the Farmer Self-Help
Organizations. In addition, the component was to pursue removal ofpolicy-induced distortions, such as
interest rate subsidies, and elimination offarm debt overhang outstanding to the agricultural sector,
which were not conducivefor development of a commercially sustainable ruralfinance system.
TA for KAFC. Donors provided substantial institutional development support for KAFC.
First, during the preparation period, the Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD)
Grant, which was executed by the Borrower, supported development of three main branch offices, and
preparation of a group-lending program. About 11 percent of the grant was used for local consultants, and
another 10 percent was spent for a workshop on lending to the agribusiness sector. KAFC appeared to
have had more control over the utilization of this grant compared to other funds, and expressed satisfaction
about the work of the local consultants although the consultants were agriculturists not bankers.
Donor-fimded TA provided expatriate resident consultants for one year to advise and train on financial
management, credit operation and personnel management. Four study tours for KAFC staff were also
funded. While valuing the support, some staff felt that the TA could have been more relevant and better
designed for the absorption capacity of KAFC at that time. TA was based mostly on Western methods,
and the unfamiliarity and limited absorptive capacity of KAFC staff initially retarded the effective transfer
of technical knowledge. Perhaps the most regretful outcome of this TA was that the most relevant
component, credit management, was not effectively implemented. A credit manual was prepared, but even
after revision, most of the lending staff was not able to follow the manual in their daily work. It became
clear that not having an appropriate operational manual was one of the most critical constraints, which led
to inconsistent procedures, duplications, and higher processing costs. Ultimately, this issue was rectified
towards the end of the project with alternative, intensive support by the IDA team. An operational manual
for the group-lending was still incomplete at the time of closing.
Another TA program provided substantial support to assist in the establishment of branch offices in
Issyk-Kul, Osh, and Jalal-Abad; this support later expanded to support the establishment of six branches.
The TA helped, among other things; (a) KAFC develop an organization and staffing plan; (b) prepare a set
- 11 -



of manuals; (c) devise an implementation plan for the group-lending; (d) provide an adequate format and
example of an annual Business Plan; (e) support the marketing division of KAFC; (e) prepare and
implement a training program for KAFC staff; (g) provide computers and other equipment in two branch
offices; and (h) provide three long-term resident advisors. The consultant team advised KAFC to
restructure its internal organizational configuration twice during the life of the contract, revised the credit
manual, wrote a group-lending manual, drafted a new business plan for KAFC, and even discussed KAFC
privatization. Consultants also initiated agribusiness lending by providing direct support to potential
investors and participating in loan assessments, which helped establish a loan portfolio of more than
KGS50 million. After the consulting TA was completed, however, this work was not replicated.
Approximately US$306,500 was spent on the development of a group-lending program. At closing, a
general consensus is that the assistance provided was neither relevant nor effective, and the impact was
dismal. As discussed earlier in this report, the "group-lending" developed for SFCOP by the consultant
deviated from the traditional, micro-credit based on group-lending methodology as stipulated in the SAR.
Further exacerbating the situation, KAFC regional staff were not adequately trained in group formation or
development, monitoring of these poorly developed groups was inadequate, and responsibilities and
collateral liabilities were less clear than with individual loans. All these deficiencies were reflected in the
repayment rate declining from 93 percent in 1998, in the first year of implementation to 86 percent in 2001.
As discussed earlier, however, these shortcomings of the group-lending operation are being addressed in
RFP II.
In summary, KAFC received a tremendous amount and a wide variety of technical assistance and training,
particularly during the initial years, and some key areas of institutional development benefits were realized.
Nonetheless, KAFC still lacks the most fundamental aspects necessary for a successful lending institution,
that is (a) a coherent organizational structure with trained staff; (b) consistent intemal controls and
management structure with adequate oversight and supervision capacity; (c) adequate risk assessment
capacity for investment loans; (d) streamlined operational manuals and their adaptation for daily operation;
and (e) MIS, or efficient loan processing procedures which would relieve over-burdened loan officers who
each handle from 200 to 400 clients. Clear lessons also emerged from KAFC experience that TA should be
"relevant" and designed based on the recipient's needs and absorption capacity and that consultants should
have relevant skills and country knowledge. On the recipient side, KAFC should have a more open position
about expatriate consultants and try to gain from the opportunity to leam about different methods and
know-how from more advanced countries rather than over-relying on intemal and local resources.
Other Major Events that Affected the Project Implementation
In April 2000, the govemment issued a Decree "On timely and effective carrying out of the springfield
works in the agricultural sector in the year 2000" to provide interest rebates for farmers on loans
received from KAFC for the spring planting season in 2000. The event may have been influenced by the
then upcoming political election, and despite publicly expressed IDA concems, the Decree became effective
and triggered the official suspension of the IDA Credit in June 29, 2000. Withdrawals from the credit
lines, Categories I (a) and 1 (b) were suspended. In order to minimize the distortions and negative impact on
the KAFC's financial situation, IDA, together with the govemment, agreed on a set of eligibility criteria for
the interest subsidy beneficiaries, that included that: (a) only farmers who received loans from KAFC for
spring planting, in the time period between January I and June 15, 2000 would be eligible; (b) the interest
subsidy would only apply to interest accrued in 2000; (c) the interest subsidy would only be provided after
the borrowers have timely repaid the loan principal and interest; and (d) amount of the subsidy would not
exceed 50 percent of the amount of interest payable in 2000. These damage-control measures were
included in the official suspension letter and IDA put forward specific conditions to be fulfilled by the
- 12 -



Borrower and KAFC to lift the suspension. The full contents of the suspension conditions can be found in
Annex 12. The suspension was lifted on October 12, 2000, following compliance with the required
conditions.
Immediately following the Decree, there were dramatic increases in KAFC's lending volume. KAFC
approved over 4,872 loans during the first six months of 2002 compared to 2, 566 made in the entire year
of 1999. Two-third of the loans made during the first half of 2000 were also for the first time borrowers of
KAFC. The post Decree disbursernent more than tripled from the same period the previous year, and was
about 150 percent greater than KAFC's own projected disbursement for the period. The Decree has led to
sudden and significant increases in credit demand by mostly new borrowers, who were expecting the 50
percent of interest rebates from the government. At the end, only about 480 borrowers representing about
10 percent of those approved were eligible to receive the interest rebates. KAFC lacked the necessary
number of qualified lending staff to evaluate carefully the borrowers and to appraise and process such a
huge volume of loan applications in such a short time. Therefore, the main concern was the likely problems
that would arise in collection when these loans become due. While it is difficult to link the cause and
effects of the Decree, KAFC loan portfolio has definitely suffered from declining repayment performances
during the post Decree period. Although relations among the Borrower, KAFC ,and IDA may have
suffered as a result of the decree and suspension, valuable lessons were learned from this unfortunate
experience.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
See Section 4.4
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Project Analysis
Loans made to individuals or groups were not analyzed during appraisal, as the project was a credit line
operation in which the exact nature of sub-loans was not predictable. The project provided a large number
of small-size loans, which supported a wide variety of activities; therefore an aggregate analysis of the
project's cost and benefits was not attempted at the ICR stage. At closing the credit lines have achieved
over 88 percent (vs. appraisal target of 75 percent) repayment rates, confirming that the funded activities,
mainly agricultural production, were feasible and generated adequate returns to allow for timnely
repayments. Consequently, a fann model analysis was not deemed necessary to reconfirm the viability of
investments.
Alternatively, for the preparation of this ICR, two groups of randomly selected beneficiaries were
interviewed based on standardized questionnaires. They were asked to provide information on the uses of
the loan funds, benefits (tangible and intangible) gained from the project, areas to be improved, etc. The
respondents unanimously expressed high levels of satisfaction and highlighted the positive impact the loans
provided through KAFC on their income, living standards and quality of life. Beneficiaries declared that
they, as individual borrowers, could not have obtained credit from other institutional sources and that
borrowing from private lenders, if and when available, would have been much more costly. Furthermore,
the majority expressed their trust in KAFC while the banking sector as a whole was seen as untrustworthy
and uncaring toward the rural population. Overall, the project has effectively filled the gaps of rural
finance intermediation while establishing a solid foundation for instituting a credit culture with regards to
both lenders and borrowers. For more information on beneficiary impact, please refer to Annex 8,
Beneficiary Survey.
- 13 -



Financial Analysis of KAFC
The SAR clearly stated that KAFC was to achieve financial sustainability. During implementation, KAFC
prepared yearly business plans, and their financial results were audited by intemational auditing companies
and were reviewed by IDA. As a new institution created only in late 1997, KAFC has achieved remarkable
financial and operational results. While KAFC has benefited and continues to benefit from preferential
support from the government in the form of capital, interest free loans for SFCOP, and access to other
governmental funds and assets (i.e. their building), KAFC can maintain itself financially and operationally
if the unachieved efficiency gains are fully realized. Based on actual financial data, KAFC is likely to
achieve independent, financial sustainability. A more complete analysis, including comparative financial
results between 1997 and 2001 and a summary of audited financial statements of KAFC, can be found in
Annex 11, and full audited reports are available in the project files.
4.S Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is high. Institutional development was one of the key
objectives of the project starting with the creation of KAFC. When KAFC was created, its headquarters
was in a rented office and it only had two regional branch offices with a total of 30 staff. Over four years,
KAFC has acquired a building for its headquarters and has grown to 11 regional offices with 249 staff
handling all aspects of financial operations, including asset and liability management. The internal
organizational structure has been changed on a few occasions to reflect the changing needs of KAFC with
its growing portfolio and expanding markets. Necessary institutional capacity building was provided,
including support for the development of (a) a more coherent management structure, (b) improved reporting
and monitoring systems, (c) internal control and audit procedures, and (d) separate front and back office
functions. With the decentralization of loan approval, operational procedures were also restructured to
reduce redundancies and inconsistencies. While much progress has been made, there are areas for further
improvement. Some of the on-going institutional development support includes: (a) MIS system
modernization with a target date of full adaptation around mid 2003; (b) operational manual streamlining
and adaptation at all levels; (c) restructuring of the group-lending window with coherent loan appraisal and
risk monitoring procedures; (d) preparation of coherent group-lending procedures, including group risk
assessment; and (e) development of a staff training program.
What is still lacking is the independent supervision and regulation of KAFC, as it is still a non-bank
financial institution. While not directly supervised by NBK, KAFC continues to operate based on the
prudential norms applicable to banks and is occasionally inspected by the Banking Supervision department
of NBK. The Board of Directors of KAFC meets regularly to discuss KAFC operational and financial
results, but most of the discussions are more on procedures and aggregate issues without providing the
necessary strategic support and business guidance.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1998 Russian crisis profoundly affected the performance of the regional banking sectors, including that
of the Kyrgyz Republic. KAFC, on the other hand, was influenced to a much lesser extent than the
commercial banking sector, as it was somewhat "isolated." Since KAFC was the only financial
intermediary in RFP, the impact of Russian crisis on the project was insignificant, with the disbursements
from the project account even exceeding the plan. The crisis, however, delayed the possibility of
participation of other commercial banks in the project, therefore, although discussions are being held with
- 14 -



interested commercial banks, KAFC continues to be the sole PFI to date.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Generally, KAFC was given full authority over project management and implementation, and the
government, although the sole shareholder of KAFC, did not influence or exercise any control on the
day-to-day operation of KAFC. However, as discussed earlier, an ill-conceived government interest
subsidy program implemented during the election in Spring 2000 led to the official suspension of the
project. Through the experience, albeit difficult for both sides, both the Borrower and IDA learned to be
more vigilant about the original spirit and development objectives of the project and the ultimate long-term
goal of developing a sustainable rural finance system. The actual impact of the suspension on the KAFC
loan portfolio was less devastating than it could have been, as IDA and KAFC immediately enacted
damage control through the articulation of strict eligibility criteria. All concemed parties, particularly the
govermnent, are now keenly aware of the financial and institutional vulnerability of micro-finance
institutions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
KAFC, under dynamic leadership, evolved quickly to become one of the key players in the financial market
in the country. KAFC has been delivering an increasing amount of credit to farmers at an extremely fast
pace with growth as high as 80 percent per annum, reaching over 30,000 farmers throughout the country.
Farmers in all corners of the country know about KAFC, respect it, and trust it. This is a phenomenal
achievemnent.
These achievements did not come cheaply. The overarching KAFC strategy has been to expand lending to
the agricultural sector at all costs. KAFC had received substantial subsidies from the government, such as
government equity, interest free loans, and its headquarters building in Bishkek. In addition, the
government capitalized interest due on the subsidiary loan from KAFC as government equity and has
allowed KAFC to acquire from the 26 buildings from the government that used to belong to the defunct
Agroprombank at a fraction of their cost.
The ICR review of sub-loans revealed that sub-loan files were generally in good order with a few cases of
missing procurement or environmental documentation, loan monitoring reports, and a limited number of
examples of a miscalculated debt service ratios. The review confirmed a sincere effort by KAFC to
comply with the letter and spirit of the project. Most important, KAFC successfully targeted the intended
beneficiaries: first-time, rural borrowers, seeking small loans. This type of client was not the financial
institutions' typical priority client. Nevertheless, KAFC actively sought out such borrowers with dynamic
community-level marketing. Much of the success of the project is, therefore, largely attributable to the
conscientious efforts made by KAFC.
Notwithstanding these achievements, KAFC still needs to improve loan appraisal capacity, efficiency, and
portfolio quality. KAFC may also be deviating from financial discipline, and less strictly adhering to the
selection criteria of sub-loans as evidenced during the suspension of 2000. These concems have been
extensively discussed and continue to be monitored under the implementation of RFP II. A remaining
challenge is that both the govenmment and KAFC have strong objections to using IDA funds for technical
assistance. Consequently, KAFC depends on donor grants for which they often lack full management
control.
5.4 Costs and financing:
- 15 -



Of the IDA credit of SDRIl 1.9 million (US$16 million), SDRI 1.87 million was on lent to ultimate private
farmers and agribusiness. The balance of SDR0.03 million (US$40,000) was used for institution building
and technical assistance.
During the project implementation, two reallocations were made from Category 2 (goods) and Category 3
(consultants) to Category 1-A (Sub-loan Part A, KAFC general credit line). The originally earmarked
technical assistance from the IDA funds was reallocated once the Borrower found alternative donor grants
to support the original institutional capacity building component. At completion, the total project cost
amounted to US$21.95 million, exceeding the appraisal estimate due to the expanded scope of the technical
assistance obtained by the Borrower from donor grants (see Annex 2 for details). SAR projections
assumed donor co-financing of US$2.6 million for the two and one-half year period. The government's
contribution to the project financing was about US$0.8 million, covering, in part, the initial capital and
operating expenditures of KAFC and tax exemptions of goods purchased with project funds.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Based on positive trends at the time of closing, both financial and operational sustainability of the project is
likely.
The government is firmly committed to the economic, social, and political reforms, and continues to pursue
the maturing process of legal, regulatory, and institutional development to create a conducive environment
for the rural finance system to flourish. For the overall banking sector development, the project had a
limited impact except for one important aspect. KAFC demonstrated to commercial banks that lending to
small-scale borrowers engaged in agricultural production could be profitable, and diversification of client
basis and sectors, as well as increasing covariance of risks, could lead to reduced exposure to the lenders.
KAFC became effective one year before the Russian crisis of 1998, but it has not only survived the crisis,
but it has done so with very limited negative impact. This was mainly due to the consistent KAFC business
strategy of "know your clients" and frequent on-site interactions with them. While this model proved to be
expensive, it also contributed to a relatively robust loan portfolio with high repayment rates. KAFC has
the financial and, at least minimal, institutional capacity to sustain rural lending, and its capacity continues
to improve. Sustainability is also evident from the successful institutionalization of commercial credit
principles on the part of both the lender and borrower.
Ultimately, KAFC sustainability will depend mainly on its ability to maintain its full autonomy, a quality
loan portfolio, and an operational efficiency based on a trained staff, a rational internal organizational
structure with adequate internal controls and corporate governance, as well as sound management. At the
time of RFP closing, KAFC was at an advanced stage of achieving these benchmarks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the follow-up project, RFP II, the necessary complementary steps are being taken to ensure that
fundamental foundations for future ruralmicro-finance operations will be in place. RFP II will close on
June 30, 2004.
Several efforts are being made to improve the performance of both KAFC and the project. Progress is
being made to engage commercial banks in order to increase the number of PFIs and to increase
competition among them. Extra efforts are being made to restructure the group-lending operation of KAFC
- 16 -



in addition to improving the sustainability and effectiveness of social collateral-based group-lending. Two
Moldovan consultants who implemented a successfiul rural finance operation have recently completed a
mission to Kyrgyz Republic, and advised, among other things, on the development of legal status for
groups, prudential norms and a basic accounting, monitoring and reporiing system of the groups. KAFC,
being a non-bank, is not allowed to mobilize savings and is therefore not able to diversify its sources of
funds other than through IFI-supported credit lines. The government has already requested, and KAFC is
keen, to be transformed into a bank. IDA remains committed to supporting such efforts once the necessary
conditions for the transformnation have been met
Because of the KAFC track record, commercial banks have expressed interest to participate in the rural
lending, indicating that the country is now one step closer to mainstreaming rural lending within the
banking sector. Banks, in turn, will discover that sub-loans made in rural areas have the same repayment
rates as urban industrial loans; at the same time, they will be diversifying their portfolios and broadening
their client bases thereby helping to reduce risk. Having found an economic rationale and an incentive for
rural lending, banks have already begun their marketing efforts in rural communities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA was able to process the project from identification (May 1996) and appraisal (March 1997) to Board
approval (June 1997) relatively quickly per the request of the Government.
The main elements of the project design were relatively simple and took into account information gathered
in the Agribusiness Survey (1996), which revealed the most critical issues that the sector was then facing.
Lessons leamed from the pilot project started during preparation and were also taken into account during
finalization of the project design.
IDA also conducted the Poverty Assessment to ascertain the real needs of the poor segments of the
population. This highlighted the most pressing problems of reduced rural incomes, rising hidden
unemployment, underemployment and poverty levels, reduced life expectancy, an aging, dependant
population, and other social and psychological hardships associated with the transition process. A dialogue
was maintained with stakeholder organizations and NGOs throughout project preparation. The project
design also reflects innovative features based on other ECA rural finance models that have successfully
implemented a temporary rural financial model, which later became mainstream in universal banks.
RFP was also fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was discussed and
approved by the Board in 1995. CAS focused on four priority areas: adjustment lending,
agricultural/natural resource management, energy, and social sectors. Recovery in the agricultural sector is
a critical element of the IDA assistance program for economic growth and poverty reduction. Within the
CAS framework, the IDA assistance strategy for the rural sector consists of policy-based lending in
support of structural reforms and investment lending in key sectors. Being consistent with CAS, the project
supported strengthening of the financial system, fostering economic growth, creating employment, and
promoting income-generating opportunities in rural areas. These efforts, in turn, helped reduce poverty
while improving the living standards of the rural population as confirmed by the updated survey of
households and statistical basis prepared by the government.
7.2 Supervision:
- 17 -



IDA had two project teams that worked on RFP. The second team, which took over the project
management in late 1999, is also responsible for the preparation and supervision of RFP n1. The fact that
members of the same task team were supervising both Rural Finance Projects, in which KAFC was a key
implementing agency, facilitated the more frequent supervision while being more cost efficient. In general,
the composition of the IDA missions in terms of skills and expertise allowed for the effective supervision
and identification of issues to be addressed to ensure the successful outcome of the project. In addition, the
missions made special efforts to strengthen coordination and cooperation among the various agencies
involved in project implementation.
Supervision was carried out at least every six months, except for a nine-month gap immediately following
the September 2001 tragedy in the U.S., and more frequently whenever the need arose. Nine supervision
missions, including a mid-term review (MTR) in February 1999 were undertaken during the four-year
project implementation period. In addition, IDA organized two study tours for KAFC and government
staff to Latvia and Moldova where other successful rural finance operations were being implemented.
By the time MTR took place, KAFC had already disbursed over 70 percent of the IDA credit. With this
brisk disbursement, the President of the Republic requested an immediate follow up project. Hence, RFP II
for SDR1 1.10 million was rapidly processed and approved by the IDA Board on June 24, 1999. Due to
various reasons relating to the official suspension of the RFP, RFP H did not become effective until March
2000. The current pace of RFP II is satisfactory, with more than 30 percent of the IDA funds disbursed at
the time of the RFP I closing.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, IDA performance is rated as satisfactory on project design, appraisal, and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government has, from very early on, been committed to rural development in general and to the project
in particular. At the time of appraisal, the agricultural sector of the Kyrgyz Republic accounted for about
30 percent of the GDP and one-third of employment. If agribusiness was added, the overall contribution of
agriculture to GDP was as high as 50 percent. It was noted then that farm productivity and profitability
were major problems due to, among other things, constraints relating to a lack of credit for private farmers.
The poverty index was on the rise with over 50 percent of the nation's households officially considered
poor, and over 50 percent of these classified as "very poor." The government's strategy at that time called
for specific measures that target the poor as primary beneficiaries. The government also matched its policy
and strategy commitment with financial support. It provided US$0.8 million during the establishment of
KAFC and, among other assistance, furnished office space as well as other logistics and strategic
operational guidance for KAFC.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite the Decree of 2000, which led to the official suspension of the project, the overall performance of
the government during implementation was also satisfactory. The suspension lasted only three months
during which time substantial remedies and institutional strengthening steps for KAFC were undertaken.
The Government delegated responsibility for implementation of the project to KAFC, which was also the
key financial intermediary of the credit lines. KAFC was supervised by the Board, which at times appeared
to be overly formalistic and less concerned about financial and operational details, but in most cases fully
- 18 -



delegated to KAFC the responsibility to implement the project objectives and goals.
7.6 Implementing Agenicy:
Much of the success and outcome of the project is due to KAFC performance. KAFC performed well
considering that KAFC was a newly created non-bank financial institution with new staff, which also had
to build up a nationwide network of branches. Appraisal, supervision and loan monitoring of its borrowers
were generally carried out in a satisfactory manner. Record keeping was satisfactory, accounts and
management information were kept in a timely manner, and audits were prepared and submitted on time
and according to IDA requirements. KAFC has been gradually reducing its administrative costs plus loan
loss provision, working towards the goal of reaching 8 percent by end 2004.
The overall performance of KAFC was satisfactory. It is surprising that in light of the difficult situation in
the rural areas, and the agricultural sector in particular, KAFC succeeded in a relatively short time to lend
to over 30,000 small-scale, geographically dispersed farmers and rurl entrepreneurs, both individuals and
groups. The commitment of KAFC for further development of the rural finance system remains strong.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The generally successful outcome of the first IDA supported rural finance project in a Central Asian
country could provide relevant lessons for other rural/microfinance operations in the future. Lessons
learned include:
On policy and credit environment
>      Macro-economic stabilization and market liberalization are prerequisites for effective financial
intermediary operations, and these conditions were introduced early on in the Kyrgyz Republic, and
generally have been maintained;
>      Four key elements of a successful rural finance project are: (a) legally based property ownership;
(b) a functioning legal system; (c) functioning financial institutions; and (d) a system of effective
farm advisory and business development support. Most of these were in place in Kyrgyz Republic,
but still needed to be strengthened further;
>      As the RFP suspension demonstrates, government subsidized interest or credit programs
significantly undermine the core objective of building.a sustainable rural finance system and hinder
the development of a disciplined credit culture; and
>      Continuous policy dialogue is key in a country like the Kyrgyz Republic, where there were still
lingering legacies of central planning and strong government control, as well as a challenging legal
and regulatory environment.
On project design and constraints
>      Rural/microfinance is highly relevant in countries with relatively high incidence of rural poverty,
- 19 -



and could help create employment, develop human capital, foster market competition, and promote
broad-based economic participation. The project contributed towards these goals;
Typically, rural clients are physically dispersed, require small-size loans with high transaction
costs, and are subject to high weather related risks and limited covariance/concentrated risk of
agricultural production. In order to develop an effective rural finance project, RFP addressed some
of these constraints;
Rural finance projects should increasingly shift emphasis from primary reliance on credit lines
toward a more comprehensive approach, including policy/regulatory reforms, and capacity
building. RFP was one of the first rural finance projects for the Kyrgyz Republic;
The project demonstrated that lending to agriculture and rural businesses could be profitable. The
project could have benefited more from having multiple financial intermediaries to create
competition among banks and to provide wider access to credits by clients;
When a subsidy is provided in the project for a financial intermediary, there should be a clear
sun-set clause with a specific, mandatory financial target for the financial institution to phase out
the subsidy. KAFC has been successfully reducing its dependence on subsidy;
There is a trade-off between building a sustainable rural loan portfolio and outreach to the poor;
Cultural and social diversity must be taken into account when designing a project for it to be
relevant and practical with concrete demonstrable results. RFP and KAFC were both relevant for
the Kyrgyz Republic at the time of project preparation;
The establishment and mobilization of social forces to create participatory rural development
require considerable time, commitment, and TA. Continuous effort and resources are needed to
motivate poor, rural populations to participate in community-based local development activities;
and
There needs to be a balance between expanding the number of new groups and strengthening the
existing ones. Although the project was successful in creating groups, many of them have a very
small number of members and are not likely to be sustainable. Priority should now be given to
strengthening and consolidating the existing groups.
On project implementation aspects
The quality and personal commitment of staff, on both the IDA and Kyrgyz Republic sides, and the
continuity of many of these staff from the beginning, were essential to the success of this project;
The strong drive for results, with hands-on involvement of the teams on both sides, also contributed
to the positive outcome;
Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful outcome; and
Segmented rural finance markets, with multiple, uncoordinated donor programs could be
counter-productive and need to be better coordinated through open dialogue, sharing of
information, and development of effective partnerships. To ensure sustainability and reduce
- 20 -



reliance on donor funds, a clearly defined exit plan and transfer strategy of institutional and human
capacity to the recipient should be required for all donor programs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following section was prepared by the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC).
Project Objectives and Design
1.1    Objectives
The project objectives were: (a) in the short-term, to establish an interim institutional arrangement
for lending to the agricultural and agribusiness sectors which had no access to commnercial bank
credit; and (b) in the medium and long-term, to provide the basis for developing community-based
financial services for the rural population.
The project was designed at a time when limited institutional and human resources were available to
support the transition from a centrally-directed command economy to a market economy and the newly
emerging capital markets were insufficient to meet the needs of market system rapidly developing in
response to enterprise privatization. In the years immediately following independence, the GOK was the
primary provider of credit to the agricultural sector, intermediated mostly by Agroprombank. There were
almost no other banks involved in the agricultural credit at that time. Agroprombank, despite its extensive
rural branch network, lacked the experience in commercial loan appraisal and suffered from a high default
rate.
In 1996 the GOK undertook a comprehensive financial sector reform (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit,
Cr. 2890-KG) designed to address the serious lack of confidence in the sector, the oligopolistic nature and
insolvency of commercial banks and the substantial bad debt problem. As part of this reform program,
Agroprombank was liquidated and placed under receivership. In the wake of the Agroprombank's closing
in 1994, Government has channeled credit to farmers through the Regional Administration (oblast and
rayon akimiat), whereby loans have been administered by regional and district authorities. In 1995 several
Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs) were established among farmers under the directive of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food. These approaches have had dismal results, in terms of credit reaching the target
groups and of loan repayment.
Other commercial banks, however, were not prepared to fill the void created by the closing of
Agroprombank. Existing banks had no rural branch network, no expertise in agricultural lending, and no
understanding of the type of assets available as collateral in the countryside. Their technology and expertise
were geared toward large-scale industrial and trade finance. Moreover, the baking sector was generally
weak and not in a position to expand and move into new markets.
Against this backdrop, the project established a non-bank financial institution - Kyrgyz Agricultural
Finance Corporation (KAFC) - to serve the newly emerging private farmers and rural enterprises. KAFC
was intended as a temporary institution that would serve the rural sector for a limited period of time and
then be absorbed into the commercial banking sector. It was also intended to develop a Small Farmer
Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) aimed at reaching groups of farmers who could offer joint and several
liability (i.e. social collateral) in lieu of physical collateral.
- 21 -



1.2    Design
(a) KAFC Component established to provide credit on commercial terms to support private sector
development in the rural sector. The project provided a line of credit of SDR 9,550.00 thousand. KAFC
provided short-term/seasonal working capital loans to private farmers and agribusiness enterprises and
medium/long-term investment loans for on-farm and agribusiness development. Support for KAFC's
institutional development for capacity building and implementation support was provided through grant
funds of US$ 540,960.00 (actual US$ 562,995.68) from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), JPY
41,700,000.00 (actual JPY 41,694,769.00) Japanese Government and ECU 1,496,360.00 from the
European Union TACIS.
(b) SFCOP Component processed of establishing an institutional framework for providing rural financial
services on a commercially sustainable basis in the rural areas. The project supported SFCOP's lending
program of SDR 1,480.00 thousand.
(c) Insdtudonal and Policyframework The project supported technical assistance under KAFC and
SFCOP components, and promoted institutional, legal and policy changes, innovations which involved
revision of the KAFC charter, adoption of an appropriate corporate and management structure for KAFC,
and adoption of appropriate operational policies and procedures for KAFC. The project provided of SDR
870.00 thousand.
While the project component remains as it was designed at the time of the SAR, the all components were
redesigned. This was a pro-active initiative of the Borrower to restructure the components before it affected
the performance of the entire project. According to official request of the GOK the IDA reallocated the
proceeds of the Credit as set out in the table in paragraph one of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement as
follows:
SDR 339,692.84 from Category 1-B (SFCOP),
SDR 50,724.35 from Category 2, Goods under Part A (ii) of the Project,
SDR 730,000.00 from Category 3, Consultants' Services under Part B (ii) of the Project and
SDR 37,597.82 from Category 4, Refunding the PPF, to Category 1-A, Sub-loans Under Part A (i) of the
Project.
Accordingly, the amounts allocated to the different categories are as follows:
Category l-A (KAFC component) - SDR 10,708,015.01;
Category 1-B (SFCOP component) - SDR 1,140,307.16;
Category 2,4 (Institutional and Policyframework) - SDR 51,677.83;
2.     Achievement of objectives
The project is successfully completed. There was established an institutional arrangement for lending to the
agricultural and agribusiness sectors which had no access to commercial bank credit. The project
established KAFC as a major financial institution that lends to farmers and rural enterprises. KAFC
functions primarily on a commercial basis, extend credit based on rigorous financial appraisal, fully cover
its costs of funds, administrative margin, and provisioning with its on-lending rates. Credit officers were
explicitly trained to understand agricultural markets for outputs, inputs, rural assets offered security.
- 22 -



Experience with this project show that the demand for rural credit not only exists but is strong and urgent.
The project has successfully demonstrated that agricultural financing can be commercially viable.
The SFCOP was intended to extend credit to borrowers who lack physical collateral or other assets
required as security by accepting joint and several liability through group lending based on social collateral.
In practice, however, this component has been slow to develop and group-lending remains heavily based on
full physical collateral, with the same terms and conditions KAFC offers to and demands of individual
borrowers. Therefore, the objective of increasing access to credit based on social collateral has not
achieved. This may have been due in part to the overloading of KAFC with responsibility for group
formation and support and to a lack of trained staff who fully understand the concepts of group borrowing
and social collateral. There is also a lack of understanding among rural people of the benefits and
responsibilities of being a group member.
3.     Implementation Summary of Project (as of June 30, 2001)
3.1    KAFC Component
Lending operations by KAFC have been proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Since inception (March 1997)
until June 30, 2001 has disbursed 15,107 sub-loans for a total amount of KGS 948.3 million, of which
USD 14.3 million has been disbursed from the Credit account. The outstanding balance was about KGS
488.8 million. The average loan amount was KGS 63 thousand with average repayment period was 15
months. Loan repayment rate was about 86.63%.
3.2    SFCOP Component
The activities of the Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program, implemented by KAFC started in March
1998. Since beginning and until June 30, 2001 719 loans had been made totaling KGS 165.7 million, of
which USD 1.5 million has been disbursed from the Credit account. The outstanding balance was about
KGS 67.2 million. Average loan amount per group was KGS 230 thousand. Loan repayment rate was
82.53%.
4      Project costs and financing
4.1    Project costs
At SAR the total costs of the project were estimated at US$ 21.0 million, actual project costs are estimated
at US$ 18.5 million. Lines of credit accounted for 86% of total project costs, at SAR estimate of 78%.
Institutional Development costs were US$ 2.6 million or 14 % of total costs, at SAR estimate of US$ 4.7
million or 22% of total costs. Moreover according to Japanese Grant Agreement dated October 4, 1995
Japanese Government has provided grant funds amounting JPY 41,700,000 (actual JPY 41,694,769) to
finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance to Rural Finance Project. These grant funds have
not been appropriated at SAR.
4.2    Project Financing
SAR: The proposed IDA credit of US$ 16.0 million equivalent would finance 76% of total project costs.
The credit would consist of US$15.0 million for lines of credit and US$1.0 million to finance TA for
SFCOP and vehicles and equipment for KAFC. The Swiss Development Cooperation (SD C) had provided
a grant of about US$0.6 million to cover KAFC technical assistance and training. The European
Union-TACIS would provide about US$2.0 million equivalent to finance KAFC and SFCOP technical
-23 -



assistance and training. GOK, KAFC and final beneficiaries would finance US$2.4 million equivalent, or
11% of total project costs, mainly covering support for administrative budgets of KAFC and SFCOP and
contributions by final beneficiaries to sub-loans. An IDA PPF, amounting to US$70,000 has been
advanced to KAFC to purchase requisite computer equipment and software and it would be refinanced
upon Credit effectiveness.
Actual: From the beginning of RFP-I implementation and until June 30, 2001 the total financing were:
Amounts financed by the IDA:
Component of the Project                  EDA resources (USD)
Category 1 A of the Project               14 335 857,16
Category I A of the Project SFCOP          1 549 523,00
PPF                                          70 000,00
Total                                     15 955 380,16
Amounts financed by the Govermnent of Kyrgyz Republic in KGS:
Name source                                Amount (KGS)
Funds                                      7 400 000,00
Buildings                                  20 090 385,00
Accrued %% under subsidiary loan invested to the  39 385 612,87
Share Capital of KAFC
Recover of old budget loans                21 034 074,67*
Return old budget loans in the form of merchandises 7 289 845,05*
Total                                      75 109 532,59
* According to Subsidiary Loan Agreement the GOK has transferred as share capital contribution to KAFC the proceeds of loan
recoveries made by KAFC from the budgetary agricultural credit to be lent by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
and Regional Administration during 1997-99 amounting KGS 28 323 919,72.
Amounts financed by Swiss Development Cooperation:
Name                                       Amount    SD)
TA and training                           |562 995,68
Total                                      562 995,68
Amounts financed by European Union - TACIS:
Name                                       Amount (ECU)
TA and training                            1 496 360,00
Total                                      1 496 360,00
Amounts financed by Japanese Government:
Name                                       Amount (JPY)
TA and training                            41 694 769,00
Total                                      41 694 769,00
- 24 -



5.     Bank and Borrowers Performance
5.1    World Bank Performance
*  Since 1997 the overall performance of the Bank, in general, and the project supervision team, in
particular, has been highly commendable. Indeed, WB has been very instrumental in making
KAFC a stronger institution with a deeper impact in rural development.
*  The WB project supervision team has consistently shown foresight and fresh ideas. With a wealth
of experience and cross-country knowledge, the team has been able to a very comprehensive
manner. Likewise, new standards and measures have been established which are highly relevant to
current conditions.
* The recommendations and insights of the team have been strategic and highly beneficial.
* The team has shown flexibility and open-mindedness in assessing KAFC's attainment of objectives
and targets.
* The team has a good understanding of the macro environment wherein KAFC operates. With its
understanding of the Kyrgyz economy, the team is very able to situate KAFC in the appropriate
context.
* The team has been very effective in undertaking strategic discussion and coordination with GOK.
*  The team has always shown the diligence and effort in fully explaining to KAFC officers and
personnel the methodologies, empirical process and underlying logic in their supervision reviews.
5.2   Implementation Agency's Performance
* The overall performance of KAFC for the period since 1997 has been highly satisfactory. In the
agrarian operations, the performance was highly commendable and structural adjustments were
undertaken. These have set a platform for sustained growth.
* KAFC was designed to succeed where commercial banks could not and performance to date has
exceeded expectations. Since its creation, KAFC has established itself as a major financial
institution that lends predominantly to agricultural and associated borrowers. Repayment rates
have been good, and KAFC's lending portfolio has expanded. The credit disbursements were well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
* The KAFC filled a critical gap in agricultural finance, provided access to funds for small-scale
borrowers, including outreach to small private farmers, facilitated the phasing out of publicly
administered, subsidized credit, induced changes in borrower's understanding of prudent borrowing
and obligation to repay, established a good initial foundation for commercial crediting in the
agricultural sector, demonstrated the financial viability of commercial lending to the agricultural
sector.
6.     Lessons Learned
The main lessons leaned from this project are:
* Agricultural and agribusiness sector have had access to commercial bank credit;
* Agricultural financing can be commercially viable;
* Demand for rural credit not only exists but is strong and urgent;
* RFP face difficulties because: (a) profitable opportunities for lending are lacking; (b) banks are
unaccustomed to rural lending and do not know the clientele; and (c) borrowers do not know how
to prepare business plans which allow them to accurately assess the profitability of borrowing and
to interface productively with banks;
-25 -



*  The loan portfolio should be diversified in terms of size, types of economic activities, clients and
geographical areas.
*  Establishment of Farmer's Self-Help Organizations and Rural Financial Institutions for providing
rural financial services on a commercially sustainable basis in the rural areas was not successfully
implemented. Group lending can be sustainable if members of the groups share common visions
and goals, i.e. credit groups should be meaningful borrowers and community institutions, rather
than empty structures that meet the needs of an influential members of the community, and
achieving sustainable group lending requires substantial technical assistance and training at
community levels.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatordMatrix                  Projected In last PSR               ActualLatest Estimate
KAFC, a non-bank finandal institution, a  The Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation The KAFC has been established, and is
stop-gap measure, established.       (KAFC) Is actively lending to rural borrowers. actively lending to rural dients
Provide farmers and agribusinesses wth  Active loan accounts at the end of 2000  Access to credR have been provided to a total
access to credit                     around 8,000, with about 5,500 new  of 12,844 (indMdual and group)
first-tme borrowers, and more new clients  bofrowers, involved In farming, agrbushiess,
being provided with access to credit funds in trade, non-agricultural businesses
the future
Develop community-based rural finandal  Creation and finandcng of new groups of  Two (SFCOP and FDF) group borrowing
Instiutions                          borrowers being carried out nationwide, with models exist in the country, have been
about 450 borrowing groups existing at the  tested, and lessons leamed to be
end of 2000                         implemented in future group ending
operations
Establish commerdal lending practices and  Commercial lending practices are installed,  Bofrowers have leamed the responsIbilty for
induce behavbiral changes among dients  proved by the large number of commercial  repayment as proven by the high (above
about commercial borrowing and       bonrvers from the KAFC main credit line  85%) loan recovery rate In KAFC fbr all credH
responsibility for repayment                                            lines.
- 27 -



Output Indicators:                 |_|_|
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected In last PSR               ActuaULatest Estimate
1. Number of clients by accounts will exceed The number of borrowers under the  Over 15,000 dients have been serviced
6,000 in 2000.                      commercial credit line to increase by 25%  under the commercial (individual) credit line.
each year                           Throughout the implementation penod, the
growth rate of the number of cUlents has on
average been by 200% every year.
2. A diversified portfolio in terms of loan size                        The loans range from US$ 400 to USS
and type; average loan size of US$ 5,000 by                             250.000, with the average of USS 1.500. At
2000.                                                                   appraisal, 79% of loans disbursed have been
provided for working capital needs.
3. Average loan recovery not less than 75  Minimum repayment rates of 85%  The average loan recovery rate of 88% for all
percent                                                                 three loan products.
4. Positive on-lending interest rates and  Interest rates to be progressively adjusted to Interest rates have been at the lower end of
margins that cover loan transactions cost, risk reflect relevant market rates  on-lending rates of commercial banks and
and cost of funding.                                                    positive in real terms throughout the
implementation period; KAFC margin ranged
between 15-20% on average.
5. Loan transaction costs not to exceed 3% of                            Loan transaction costs at par with transaction
loan amount for the commercial operations.                               costs of commercial banks
6. KAFC's subsidy dependence index not to                               In 2000, the subsidy dependence index was
exceed 30 percent for commercial operations.                             32.4% Although It Increased mid-2001, has
dedined to 7.5% at the end of 2001.
7. Training of 100% of KAFC loan officers                                All KAFC lending and financial management
and 100% of financial management and                                     and accounting staff have been trained. Staff
accounting staff during the first year of                                Is sent to refresher courses regularly
operation. Minimum of 75% of ail staff to
attend refresher courses each year.
8. Graduation rate into RFIs will be at least                           The ACCs existing under the project have
400 in 2000 (for community-based rural                                  not developed into true community-based
finandal institutions).                                                 independent rural financial intermediaries.
and have remained just credit groups.
9 In the community-based rural financial                                 SDI has not been calculated for the ACCs
institutions, the subsidy dependence index not                          (SFCOP), as they were not true rural
to exceed 65% in 2000.                                                  financial intermediaries, but borrowing
groups.
10. On-lending Interest rate will be at par with                        By the end of the project, credits have been
commercial interest rates in 2000 for the                                provided to 518 rural credit groups (ACCs)
community-based nural financial institutions.
11. Number of FSOs established will be not                              On-lending rate at par with the lower end of
less than 200 each year of project                                      commercial interest rate bracket from KAFC
Implementation.                                                         to ACCs.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million equivalent)
KAFC Component                                        13.00          17.20            132
Pilot SFCOP Component                                  2.00           1.70             85
Policy and Institutional Framework Development         4.50           3.05             67
Component
Total Baseline Cost                                   19.50          21.95
Physical Contingencles                                0.70
Price Contingencies                                   0.70
Total Project Costs              20.90          21.95
Total Financing Required              20.90           21.95
Project Financin b Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
iKAFC Component        1 3.00    1.20     0.0      14.34     2.86      0.00   103    238.3  0.0
Pilot SFCOP Component   2.00     0.00     00        1.55     0.15      0.00    775    0.0   0.0
Policy and Institutional  1.00   1.10     2.60      0.04     0.00      3.01    4.0    0.0   115.8
Framework Development
Component
Note: The Government column also includes any co-financing provided by KAFC and the project
beneficiaries.
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) projected that most of the credit line funds would be used for investment
loans, and a separate revolving fund account would be established for short terms loans. The farm models
(including the IRR calculations) were prepared at appraisal (Annex 3, SAR), focusing on four main types
of agricultural products: wheat, vegetable, sheep, and potatoes. Farm model results reflected the real
situation at the time of appraisal but they were no comparable with the results at closing. Kyrgyz
agricultural sector underwent tremendous changes, including terms of trade, prices, labor productivity, etc.
At the closing, since the project supported over 17,000 separate sub-loans involving about 30,000
individual beneficiaries, two Beneficiary Surveys (for individual clients and group clients) carried out as an
alternative to farm models. Two-third of respondents confirmed that use of the funds led to improvement in
their living standards and income levels, and more than a half stated that they would borrow again. The
respondents also were fully aware of their repayment responsibilities although about 10 percent felt that the
repayment terms were not favorable. In summary, the survey confirms that the project had real impact on
creating economic activities in remote rural areas, which contributed towards improving their livelihood.
Borrowing in groups also allowed individuals who could not borrow from KAFC to access working capital
and investment credit. The surveys confirm outstanding issues with the group lending as discussed
elsewhere in this report.
At closing, KAFC's outstanding loan portfolio was predominantly for short-term working capital loans,
with less than 20 percent for investment loans, mostly to purchase livestock. Forty-seven percent of the
credit was used for livestock, 21 percent for mixed crop and livestock loans, 17 percent for
agro-processing, and 15 percent for crop production. Because of a large number of loans made, an
aggregate rate of return was not estimated.
While it is difficult to precisely estimate the number ofjobs created and additional income generated, both
the direct and indirect impacts of the project are expected to be substantial. The project provided access to
loan funds for about 30,000 beneficiaries who borrowed individually and through groups, to initiate or
expand economic activities in rural areas. The sound repayment rates and the fact that many of the
beneficiaries are borrowing again demonstrate the economic and financial soundness of various activities.
KAFC, after four years of operation, has become a strong financial agency filling the critical gap in rural
finance intermediation. It has achieved an excellent outreach of rural clients widely dispersed throughout
the country. Through its operation, KAFC has established a sound initial foundation for commercial
crediting in the agricultural sector, started to induce borrowers' behavioral changes regarding prudent
borrowing and obligation to repay, and was able to demonstrate to commercial banks that lending to the
agricultural sector can be commercially and financially viable. Furthermore, the project provided an
opportunity for the govermnent to discontinue publicly administered, subsidized credit, hence leading to
positive fiscal impact on the budget.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
.) Missions:
l Stageof Project Cy'cle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Ecbnomists, I FMS, etc.)   .Ijmplementatio6n Development
.   Month/Year ^Count       ;Specialty .                -     Progress m    Ob3tive
Identification/Preparation
June 1995                   3    Task Team Leader; Agricultural
Credit Specialist, Banking
Specialist (consultants)
December 1995               2    Task Team Leader, Economist
April 1996                   1   Task Team Leader
April-May 1996               1   Rural Banking Specialist
(consultant)
July 1996                    1   Task Team Leader
November 1996               6    Task Team Leader, Economist,
Analyst; Credit Specialist, 2
Rural Credit Specialists
(consultants)
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1997                  4    Task Tam Leader,
Economist, Operations
Officer, Financial Analyst
May 1997                    5    Task Team Leader, Country
Counsel, Senior Disbursement
Officer, Procurement Specialist,
Translator/Interpreter
Supervision
November-Decem               2   Task Team Leader,                  S            HS
ber 1997                         Operations Officer
June 1998                    2   Task Team Leader, Operations       S            HS
Officer
February 1999               10   Task Team Leader, 2 Rural          S             S
Finance Specialists, 2 Financial
Management Specialists, 3 Social
Development Specialists, Sector
Analysis Specialist, Operations
Officer
August-September             7   Task Team Leader, Rural            S             S
1999                             Finance Specialist, Banking
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist, Agribusiness
Consultant, Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, Operations
Analyst
April 2000                   6   Task Team Leader, Senior           S             S
Treasury Manager, Rural
Finance Consultant, Banking
Consultant, Agribusiness
Specialist, Operations Analyst
September-October            4   Task Team Leader, Senior           S             U
- 31 -



2000                             Financial Officer, Financial
Analyst, Agribusiness Specialist
January-February             3   Rural Finance Spicialist, Senior  S             S
2001                             Financial Officer, Financial
Analyst
June 2001                    2   Task Team Leader, Financial       S             S
Analyst
ICR
February 2002               4    Task Team Leader, Senior          S             S
Financial Management
Specialist, Banking
Specialist, Financial
Analyst, Business
Development Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stige of Project Cycle                   ActuaVLatest-Estimate
No. Staff weeks            - US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation               n/a                       314.3
AppraisalVNegotiation                    n/a                        63.7
Supervision                              n/a                       267.1
ICR                                      n/a                        62.3
Total                                    n/a                       707.4
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Sector Policies                       O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
O Physical                              O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
Z Financial                             O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
 Institutional Development             0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
ZGender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
F Other (Please specify)          * H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
Outreach
Z Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
M Other (Please specify)                O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
rural/microfinance, grassroot financial services
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHSOS OLU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS       O U   O HU
3 Overall                                            OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS       O  U  O HU
[J Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS       O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
A temporary suspension of three months was lifted after the Borrower satisfactorily met all the conditions.
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Staff Appraisal Report - Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Finance Project - Report No: 16470-KG - May
15, 1997
2.     Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the World Bank and the Government of Kyrgyz Republic
3.     Credit Agreement - Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Finance Project (Credit number 2959-KG) - July 3,
1997
4.     Subsidiary Loan and Equity Investment Agreement between the MOF and KAFC - July 31, 1997
5.     Country Assistance Strategy - April 1998 - Report No. 17641-KG
6.     Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Credit Social Assessment - January 1999
7.     Environmental Assessment - 1997
8.     Social Assessment - 1997
9.     Agribusiness Survey - 1996
10.    Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Finance Survey - 1996
11.    Kyrgyz Republic: Rural Finance Strategy - 1996
12.    Farm Profitability Assessment - September 1996
13.    KAFC Operational Manual - 2001
14.    Rural Credit Guidelines - 1999
15.    KAFC Environmental Review of Agricultural Projects: A Procedural Manual - March 2000
16.    Mid-term Review Report - 1999
17.    Project Appraisal Document - Kyrgyz Republic: Second Rural Finance Project - June 1, 1999
18.    Audited Financial Statements for Rural Finance Project for Years Ending 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
19.    Audited Financial Statements for KAFC for Years Ending 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
20.    Agricultural Support Services Project Loan Agreement between KAFC and IFAD - July 3, 1998
21.    Agricultural Area Development Project Loan Agreement between Kyrgyz Republic and Asian
Development Bank - 2000
22.    Project Agreement - Agricultural Area Development Project between Asian Development Bank and
KAFC - May 16, 2000
23.    Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Kyrgyz Republic and KAFC - Agricultural Area
Development Project - August 14, 2000
24.    Development Of Community-Based Financial Services for the Rural Poor - Consultant Report -
March 2002
25.    Technical Assistance (TA) Assistance Support for the Institutional Development of the KAFC -
Consultant Report - March 2002
26.    Financial Results of the Rural Finance Project at Completion - Consultant Report - March 2002
27.    Beneficiary Surveys for Three KAFC Credit Lines - April 2002
28.    Review of the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation - Consultant Report - March 2002
29.    UNDP: Participatory Poverty Alleviation Programme - Evaluation Mission Report - March 2000
30.    UNDP: Alleviating Poverty by Joint Efforts: Enhancing Partnerships for Social Development in the
Villages - Conference Report - September 2000
31.    Note on the Expansion of UNDP Participatory Poverty Alleviation Programme in Kyrgyzstan in
2001-2002
32.    Results of Analysis of the Kyrgyz Republic's Legislation, Relating Microcrediting and Materials of
Practice of Activity of Organizations Giving Microcredits - March 9, 2000
33.    UNDP: Assessment of Needs and Solutions for a Microfinance Credit Reporting Network in
Kyrgyzstan - April 22, 1999
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey - April 2002
As a part of the ICR preparation, a survey based on questionnaires was carried out through a local NGO
on two types of beneficiaries: (a) General KAFC credit line for individual loans (57 clients); and (b)
Small-Farm Credit Outreach Program for group loans (16 groups).
I.     KAFC General Credit Line for Individual Loans
Who are they:
(a) More than 50 percent of the borrowers were farms created after 1997, after the project was prepared;
(b) More than 98 percent were legally registered as private entities - 50.9 percent peasant's-farms; 43.9
private entrepreneurs; 1.8 percent - limited liabilities companies and joint-stock companies. (In one
questionnaire the line was not marked).
(c) Borrowers had mixed farms (38.6 percent), sheep breeding farms (35.1 percent), other agricultural
(10.5 percent); minor percent for agricultural processing, production of the silkworm, beer and trade.
Credit Access history:
(a) Among the borrowers 316 percent were the first time borrowers
(b) 47.4 percent received credits twice
(c) 15.8 percent - three times
(d) one client - four times
Average loan sizes received by borrowers were: (a) 43.9 percent were for average loans between KGS 51
to 250,000; (b) 36.8 percent were small borrowers receiving KGS 6,000 to 50,000; (c) only THREE
clients (5.3 percent) received large loans KGS 500,000 to 7 million.
Interest rates: Interest rates prior to 2000 was as high as 37 percent (1.8 percent respondents) while
majority borrowers paid 32 percent. With the interest rates started to come down in 2001 and continued in
2002, about 35 percent of borrowers paid interest less than 25 percent while the average paid by the rest
was around 27 percent per annum.
Total amount of the borrower's balance sheet: Out of 57 interviewed, five clients had assets greater
than KGS I million (about US$20,000) with the largest asset being KGS3.7 million (about US$74,000);
about 28 percent had the asset ranging between KGS 300,000 to 600,000 (US$6,000-12,000) with about
40 percent of borrowers had asset smaller than KGS 270,000, most cases less than KGS 100,000
(US$2,000).
Loans repayment: 89.5 percent of borrowers replied they did not have problems with loans repayment;
5.3 percent (3 respondents) had some problems; and another 3 did not replied.
Out of those persons who had problems with the loan repayment, reasons were reduction of prices for
livestock, problems of selling wheat seeds, and the third one had problems other debts.
Evaluation of the benefits from the KAFC loans
For assessment of the benefits, respondents were asked to choose among- significant, considerable, limited
and minimal: (a) 34.8 percent rated benefits from the loan as " significant "; (b) 19.9 percent rated "
considerable "; (c) 45.4 percent rated limited benefits from the loans' and (d) 24.5 percent rated the impact
as "minimal".
- 36 -



Respondents who rated minimal impact were those engaged in export (54.4 percent), access to new markets
(35.1 percent), improvement of the equipment and technology (45.6 percent), creation of new products
(38.6 percent). One third (29.8 percent) of respondents indicated the minimal loan impact in creation of
jobs.
Respondents who rated limited impact think the limits were in the creation of new jobs (29.8 percent);
diversification of business activity (28.1 percent); access to new markets (24.6 percent); sales growth and
profitability (19.3 percent); and productivity growth and compatibility growth (21.1 percent).
Among those who indicated a considerable impact of the loan, the majority believes that the project assisted
them in improvement of planning of their activity (45.6 percent); improvement of management (38.6
percent); and also assisted in solving problems of the working capital (43.9 percent). Among them, 42.1
percent indicated profitability grow'th; 40.4 percent gained productivity growth; 36.8 percent reported that
they have become more competitive; 33.3 percent indicated sales growth; but the respondents reported that
KAFC loans had a lesser impact on improvement of equipment and technologies (12.3 percent) and exports
(1.8 percent).
What have they tried before KAFC. A high proportion (82 percent) of respondents sought other loans
before turning to KAFC. Of the 57 respondents (some checking more than one source), alternative sources
of funds were: relatives (86.0 percent); loans from friends (82.0 percent); local lenders (79.0 percent) and
self-financing (51.0 percent). 18 percent has never sought other sources of financing before approaching
KAFC for loan.
On possibility of achievement without KAFC loans: 65.0 percent of questioned borrowers replied that
they could not have achieved what they have without the KAFC loans. 16.0 percent thought they could
have achieved the same without KAFC.
Rating the experience of receiving loans from KAFC:
-      "excellent": 37.84 percent;
-      "good": 50.39 percent;
-      "satisfactory": 11.0 percent;
-      "bad": less than 1 percent
Those rated "bad" thought that KAFC's requirements for getting the loan were excessive, required large
financial expenses, and took too long. But most respondents think that KAFC staff was well informed and
useful in providing consistent consultations.
Processing Time. 18 people responded to the question on how long did it take in average from submission
date of the full package of documents to the approval of the KAFC loan committee:
- 7 to 15 days: 36.84 percent
- 16 to 30 days:45.61 percent
- 30 to 60 days :10.52 percent
- up to 240 days: 3.5 percent
Recommendations: Among the respondents,
44.0 percent of borrowers felt that KAFC should reduce the document requirements;
24.6 percent of borrowers felt that KAFC should reduce the interest rates;
- 37 -



10.5 percent felt that KAFC should reduce the processing time;
7.0 percent felt that the loan repayment period should be extended
II.    Small Farm    Credit Outreach Program      (SFCOP)
Who are they:
(a) Most of the respondents were members of the groups that had been established in 1998 (50 percent); 25
percent of the respondents had their groups registered in 1999; 18.7 percent - in 2000; and
6.3 percent - in 2002;
(b) All groups were legally registered, 75 percent in private and 25 percent in collective form of ownership;
(c) 28.3 percent of all group members were women;
(d) Majority of the respondents were members of the same village (68.75 percent) or neighbors (43.75
percent); 18.75 percent of the respondents said there were friends among their group members.
Why was the group established:
(a) A primary reason was to obtain a credit (75 percent);
(b) 37.5 percent of the groups have been established to work together in land cultivation and
livestock-breeding;
(c) Only one group has been established to participate in public (community) work.
Responsibilities of group members: (a) 81.3 percent of the respondents thought that "approval of those
who are creditworthy" were their main responsibility; (b) more than a half (56 percent) consider themselves
responsible for ensuring timely and mandatory repayment of credit by the individual members to be able to
access other lending programs in the future.
What economic activities were the group members involved in:
(a) Majority of the group members (81.3 percent) were involved in meat and/or dairy fanming;
(b) 67.7 percent were in livestock breeding;
(c) 86.7 percent in sheep breeding;
(d) 62.5 percent in horticulture; and
(e) 6.3 percent in crop production.
Average loan sizes varied significantly. 62.5 percent of respondents obtained credit of KGS 15,000 per
group member; 31.3 percent had KGS 20,000 per a group member; equal share of borrowers (12.5
percent) obtained credits of KGS 5-10,000, KGS 25-30,000, and KGS 40,000 per one group member.
Interest rates: (a) More than a half (56 percent) of the respondents obtained credit at the interest rate of 28
percent, (b) 43.8 percent of the borrowers obtained their credits at the interest rate of 32 percent; (c) 25
percent obtained credits at the rate of 21 percent; and (d) 18.8 percent obtained credits at the rate of 19.0
percent.
Loan repayment: 12.5 percent of group members failed to repay their part of credit; and the other 87.5
percent were able to repay their share of credits on time.
- 38 -



Evaluation of the benefits from the SFCOP loans:
The majority of the borrowers (81 percent) were provided with work; 75 percent of the borrowers managed
to improve their living standards resulting from increased income from economic activities; 68.8 percent
are now sure they can better provide their families; while 31 percent had an opportunity to earn more. In
addition to the improvement in their own welfare, one fourth (25 percent) of the borrowers created jobs for
other people.
Rating the experience of receiving loans from KAFC: Majority (81 percent) of respondents identified
their relationships with the KAFC as "reasonably good", while 12.5 percent and 6.25 percent said their
relationship with KAFC were "perfect" and "satisfactory" respectively.
67.5 percent of the borrowers interviewed said that they would borrow from KAFC in the future.
Processing Time: 43.8 percent of the borrowers waited for the KAFC Credit Committee's decision for 30
days after they had submitted the full package of documents; 12.5 percent waited for 60 days; and the
remaining borrowers waited for 45, 15 and 12 days (12.5 percent equal share each group).
Recommendations:
(a) 18.8 percent of the borrowers interviewed recommended shortening the loan application process;
(b) 12.5 percent of respondents recommended KAFC to provided longer-term loans.
Future of the groups:
Responding to the questions whether the borrowers planned to work as a group in the future, 81.3 percent
of the borrowers replied in the affirmative, while 18.8 percent answered in the negative. These responses
were supported with a strong intention to borrow, as a group in the future by 81.3 percent of respondents
while the remaining 18.7 percent had no intention to obtain group credits anymore.
In respect of the purpose for borrowing in the future, 62.5 percent of the respondents mentioned their
intention to expand their livestock production, while another 12.5 percent of the borrowers were planning to
do agricultural work.
- 39-



Additional Annex 9. Summary of Credit Line Implementation
(in Thousands KGS)                                                                          Jan-June
1997       1998        1999       2000      2001       TOTAL
Total Number of Borrowers, approved (cumulative)    386       1,791       5,002    10,811      15,334       15,334
Total Number of Borrowers, disbursed (cumulative)   352       1,625       4,656    10,014      14,045       14,045
Existing Borrowers, approved In each period  16          55        314      1,223       1,715        3,323
Existng Borrowers, disbursed in each period  16          55        314      1,223       1,715        3,323
New Borrowers, approved in each period      386       1,405       3,211     5,809       4,523       15,334
New Borrowers, disbursed in each period     352       1,273       3,031     5,358       4,031       14,045
Total Number of Projects, approved (cumulative)     402       1,862       5,387    12,419      18,657       18,657
Total Number of Projects, disbursed (cumulative)    368       1,696       5,041    11,622      17,368       17,368
Projects, approved in each period           402       1,460       3,525     7,032       6,238       18,657
Projects, disbursed in each period         368        1,328      3,345      6,581      5,746       17,368
Total Amount of Loans, approved, KGS             33,876     142,671     263,450   462,380     387,593    1,289,969
Total Amount of Loans, disbursed, KGS            30,794     137,124     245,931   440,954     352,757    1,207,560
Commercial loans
|Number of loans approved                  402        1,319      2,875      6,038      5,680       16,314
Number of loans disbursed                  368       1,187      2,749      5,612      5,131        15,047
|Total amount aproved, KGS               33,876     115,020    190,595    352,856    328,251     1,020,598
Total amount disbursed, KGS             30,794     110,273     181,392   336,896    288,912       948,268
Average Loan size (approved)                84         87          66        58          58           71
Average interest rate (%)                30.0%      28.0%      29.1%      32.1%      29.3%        29.7%
Average grace perod (months)                11          11         12         12         17           13
Average maturity (years)                   10          1 1         1.2       1.3        1.4           1 2
SFCOP loans
Number of loans approved                              141         270        223        112          746
Number of loans disbursed                             141         244       206         128          719
Total amount aproved, KGS                           27,651     59,259     59,789     24,623       171,322
Total amount disbursed, KGS                         26,851     52,053     55,889     30,890       165,683
Avearge loans size per ACC, approved, KGS              196        219        268        220          226
Average loan size per borrower in the ACC, KGS          20         22         27         22           23
Average interest rate (%)                           28.0%      28 6%      32.3%      31.5%        30.0%
Average grace period (months)                        11          13         14         17          14
Average maturity (years)                              1         1 25        1 5        1.6         1 4
FDF loans
Number of loans approved                                           380       771        446          1,597
Number of loans disbursed                                         352        763        427         1,542
Total amount aproved, KGS                                       13,596    49,734     34,718        98,048
Total amount disbursed, KGS                                     12,486    48,168     32,955        93,609
Avearge loans size per group, approved, KGS  _ _36                            65         80           60
Average loan size per borrower In the group, K S                    5          9         12            9
Average interest rate (%)                                      29.0%      32 0%      29.5%        30.0%
Average grace period (months)                                    12         13         15          13
Average maturity (years)                                         1.1       1.25        1.5         1 3
Purpose of loan
Total number of loans approved                      402       1,460       3,525     7,038       6,238       18,663
Total amount approved, KGS                       33,878     142,671     263,450   462,629     387,592     1,290,217
Crop production (number)                      189         360        539      1,194        756         3,038
Total amount                                13,641     32,905      36,515    74,668      36,438      194,167
Livestock production (number)                 187         949       2,257     3,620       3,528       10,541
Total amount                                11,575     58,885     129,291    217,640    192,127      609,519
Processing industry (number)                   15          84         82        108        184           473
Total amount                                 7,870     44,270      53,478     51,578     60,738      217,934
Mixing Production (Crop and Livestock Production)  11      67        647      2,116       1,770        4,611
Total amount                                  790       6,611      44,165    11 8,742    98,289      268,597
-40 -



Additional Annex 10. Summary of Financial and Operational Parameters Under the
Project
Table 1. Interest rate on the subsidiary loan paid by KAFC to MOF:
Agreed in the legal agreements: Floating, based on the actual rate of inflation as confirmed by NBKR.
Actually: Based on the projected inflation rate
Indicators                              1997      1998       1999       2000       2001
1 Actual inflation rate, %                    13.0       16.8      39.9        9.6        3.3
2 Contracted interest rate payable to the MOF,%  17.0    14.7      20.0       20.0        12.0
3  Effective COF paid to the MOF, %            0.0        5.6       10.3       9.1        10.0
4  Average KAFC on-lending rate, %            30.0       28.0       34.0      34.0        25.0
5  Effective KAFC margin, % (4 - 3)           30.0       22.4      23.7       24.9        15.0
Note: 2001 information as of December 31.
Sources: Year end results - annual audit report, and KAFC
Table 2. Summary of Balance Sheet, KGS million
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET (KAS)              1997      1998       1999       2000      2001*
Total assets                                65.8      217.1      385.4     661.6      783.0
Total equity                                48.5       98.3      159.3     260.3      314.2
Total loan portfolio (net)                  26.7      114.0      231.6     439.6      613.0
Net profit                                  - 1.0       0.4       18.1       11.9      29.5
International Accounting Standard (IAS)
Comparatives
Total assets                                67.2      224.1      381.1     648.2      779.4
Total equity                                58.6      104.9      158.4     245.0      305.7
Total loan portfolio (net)                  26.1      113.0      229.7     427.4      610.1
Net profit                                  -0.5       -5.6       17.4       -2.5      24.3
* As of December 31, 2001, for consistency and comparison purposes with the other years.
Table 3: GOK Contributions, US$ thousand equivalent
Contribution Items                       Agreed        Actual
at Appraisal
Initial start-up expense coverage                                23.7*         23.7
Initial share contribution                                        412         402.3
From IDA credit proceeds - (US$ 2 mil +25% of drawdowns          4,750      4,844.2
From GOK loan recoveries 1992-1996                              11,000          0.0
From GOK loan recoveries 1997-1999                               6,000        471.7
From GOK loan recoveries 2000-2001                                   0      313.2**
Capitalization of interest on the Subsidiary Loan                    0        356.5
Transfer of retained earnings of KAFC                                0        709.6
-41 -



From IFAD credit proceeds - 100% of drawdowns                          0        1,516.1
Buildings                                                              0       2,433.4
Total GOK Contribution                                            22,162      11,070.7
* Equivalent of KGS 400,000 at end-1996 exchange rate of KGS 16.9.
** This amount includes US$ 122,620 equivalent in goods (from the GOK loans in kind) collected but not yet
sold.
Table 4. Quality of Loan Portfolio, KGS million
1997        1998       1999        2000         2001*
Loans                                        26.9       127.0      251.5        475.8        638.1
Provisions (KAS)                              0.2        13.0       19.9         36.1         25.1
Net loans (KAS)                              26.7       114.0      231.6        439.6        613.0
Provisions as a % of loan portfolio (KAS)   0.8%       10.6%        8.0%        7.6%          4.0%
Provisions (LAS)                              0.8        13.9       21.7         48.4          28.0
Net loans (IAS)                              26.1       113.1      229.7        427.4         610.1
Provisions as a % of loan portfolio (IAS)   3.0%1      11.0%       8.6%       10.2%1         4.5%
* As of December 31, 2001, for consistency and comparison purposes with the other years.
Table 5. Subsidy Dependence Index, SDI, KGS million
1997     1998      1999     2000     Jun 30,
2001        2001
Concessional borrowed funds (average), a   1.2      58.8    156.6    235.8       298.6      324.0
KAFC rate of interest payable to GOK, m  17.0%     14.7%   20.0%     20.0%      12.0%       12.0%
Weighted average annual concessional interest  0.0%  12.7%  18.1%    16.7%       5.0%
rate, c                                                                                     10.0%
Average annual equity, e                  24.2      73.4    128.8    209.8       278.7      287.2
Reported annual profit, p               -993.1     385.5     18.1      11.9      687.5       29.5
Sum of all other annual subsidies, k       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0
Average outstanding loan portfolio, LP    13.5      76.9    189.2    363.6       544.9      556.9
Average on-lending interest rate, I     15.3%     26.0%    24.9%     32.0%      13.0%       27.4%
SDI = (a(m-c)+((e*m)-p)+k)/(LP*I)      257.4%     58.0%    22.5%    32.4%       75.2%       7.5%
Note: excludes USS exchange rate losses of GOK
Table 6: Summary of Administrative Costs (including loan loss provision)
12/1998  12/1999  12/2000   12/2001
KAS-based administrative efficiency incl. loan  27.6%  20.7%  18.6%   15.7%
provision
IAS-based administrative efficiency incl. loan  49.6%  24.2%  24.8%  *20.5%
provision
- 42 -



Additional Annex 11. Detailed Review of KAFC's Financial Statements
BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS (Thousands KGS)
as of June 30,
1997          1998          1999           2000           2001
INCOME STATEMENT
Inteest income from treasury bils and NBK securities             8848        11,3537       18,487.1       2,066.6         2,517.0
Interest income ftom deposits and REPO deals                     668 2        5,058 6      18,609.0       6,803.9         3,630 8
Interst inome from lending                                     2,064.2       19,9908       47,103.3     116,5244         71,1008
Other Interest Income                                                           66.6           2.0          1551           207.2
Other operafing Income                                           140.2         728.3        2,993.3       5,244.3         3,858.1
Income from other operatons                                      2147         5,837.6       3,4859        6,775.9         2,907.7
> Total operating Income                      3,972.1      43,035.6       90,680.6     137,570.2        84,221.6
Interest expenditure for deposits of banks and ST lri.                                                      116.7
Interest expenditure for subsidiary loan                                      7,449 4      28,366.9      39,385.6        15,136.4
Interest expendIture                                              0.0        7,449.4       28,3669       39,502.3        15,136.4
Personnel and afdnistralve expenses                            3,302.0      16,494.7       23,534.9      39,399.9        26,441.6
Facedassetand eupment expenses                                  857.8        2,722.2        3,121.0       6,227.4        3,570.7
Loan recovery and pledge costs                                                 103.9          691.5         710.9          798.1
PrvisIns for loanlosses                                          736.6       12,814.5      12,7987        26,002.2       29,390.4
Loan costs                                                      736.6       12,91&4        13,490.2      26,7131         30,188.5
Othroperational costs                                            493           770.9        1,009.7       1,4578           46.57
VATand other taxes                                               195         1,510.5        3,796.1       4,5659         3,456.5
- Total operating expenditures                  4,965.2       41,866.1      73,318.8      117,8554        79,259.4
> Not Income(lssJ)bef e tax &xt rad. Items              -993.1        1,169.5      17,361.8      19,714.8         4,962.2
Profit tax                                                                     784.0         -753.3       7,780.0         4,273.5
Extraordinary costs                                                                                                          1.0
> Net Income4loss)                          -993.1          385.5       18,115.1      11,934.8         U87.7
BALANCE SHEET
Cash                                                               2 0         418.7          483.7         783.1          425.6
Corespondent accounts                                          9,719 3       12,201.7      20,014.7        5,612.6        2,208.8
Deposits and REPOs                                             2,232.1        3,534.9      56,858 6      46,481.1            0.0
Treasury bils and NBK Notes                                    9,787.2       53,423 9      18,873.8       28,397.3
Loans                                                         26,911 5      126,935.0     251,461.6      475,779 7      614,023.2
less: prvisions                                                 -210.0      -13,496.1      -19,889.3     -36,145 9      -44,334.4
Fixed assest and other property                               16,096.5       25,451 6      31,970.1       98,380.4      103,122.9
Accrued income                                                 1,145.5        8,0471       23,194 6       41,108.4       44,449.5
Other assets, ind. intangible                                    129.5         608.6        2,418.4        1,202.3        2,899.8
> Total assets                           65,813.6     217,125.4      385,386.2     661,5990        722,795.4
Deposts and loans from govterment                              2,367.6      115,213.5     197,805.8      273,820.6      323,435.6
of which Subsidiary loan RFP1 - Commerdal credi line             631.9       92,902 4      161,700.8     232,918.6      282,533.5
Subsidiary Loan RFP I - SFCOP           1,7357       22,311.1       36,105.0      40,902.0        40,9020
Payment of interest to govemment                                                           15,872.8       22,382 6        5,136.4
Other liabillbes                                               14,989.6       3,643.1      12,401.5      105,111.7       97,187.6
=> rotal labliltles                       17,357.2     118,8566       226,080.1     401,314.9       425,759.5
-43 -



Capital and reserves                                              49,449 3       98,367.3      141,289.4      248,349 3       284,413.6
Retained eamings loss of last year                                                 484.1           -98 6                        11,934.8
Retained eamings lossofcurrentyear                                  -993.0          3856        18,1151        11,934.8           6875
-> Total captal                            48,456 3       98,268.8      159,305 9      260,284.1        297,035.9
t Total liabilities and capIbl                   65,813.5      217,1254       385,386.0      661,599.0        722795.5
PROFrTABILITY AND EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS
=> Operating return on average assets employed                  -1.0%          0.4%           3.4%           2 3%            04%
=> Net retum on average assets employed                         -1 0%          0.1%           35%            14%             01%
=> Operaing return on average equdy                             -4.1%          1.6%           13.5%          9.4%            18%
=> Net retum on average equity                                  4.1%           0.5%           14.1%          57%             0 2%
Adminisave expenses excl. loan provisn (cost of lend.)         4,228.6        21,602.2       32,153.2       52,350 9        34,732 7
= Administrative effidency (exd. loan prvision)                 31.4%          281%           17.0%          144%            64%
Administrative expenses ind. oan provon (cost of lending)      4,965.2        34,4167        44,951.9       78,353.1        64,123.1
=> AdmInisraive offidency Und loan provision)                   36.9%         44.7%           238%           21.5%           11 8%
Note: above calculaonm based on average year-end loan portlio
=> Onlending margin (On-lending rate less Administrative effdency Id.
loan prvion)                                                    -21.6%        -18.8%          1.1%           10.5%           1.3%
CAPITAL ADEQUACY AND CAPITAL ANALYSIS
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Pisk-weighted value of assets (using NBK welghtings)              46,517.8      153,640 6      301,128.7      585,867.6        721,028 4
Capital adequacy - On total capital                               10417%          63 96%         52 90%         44.43%           41 20%
Capital adequacy - On pure (tier 1) capital                       105.26%         63.67%         46.89%         42.39%           41.10%
Compareto NBKretfrns-Ontotalcaptal                                    n/a         49.27%         49.04%         45.76%          4247%
Compare to NBK rehuns - On pure (bar 1) capi                          n/a         59.97%         48 51%         42 47%          41.22%
COST OF FUNDS AND LENDING MARGINS
Interest expenditure for subsidiary loan (above)                      0.0         7,449 4       28,366.9       39,385 6         15136 4
Average balance of GOK loans                                       1,183.8       58,790 6      156,509.7      235,813.2        298,628.1
=> Income statement (book value) cost of GOK loans                   0.0%          12.7%          18 1%          167%              51
Compare wfth contracted GOK rate of interest                        170%           14.7%          20.0%          20 0%            1Z0%
GOK Financing of KAFC (i.e. share capital contributlons - subsidized
GOK loans)                                                        51,331.8      213,513.4      339,095 2      522,169.9        607,849.2
Average value of GOK Finandng of KAFC                             25,665.9      132,422.6      276,304.3      430,632 6        565,009.5
=> Effective cost of GOK Finandng                                    0.0%           5.6%          10.3%           91%              2.7
Average loan portfolIo                                            13,455.8       76,923 3      189,198.3      363,620 7        544,901.5
Average on-lending Interest rate                                    15 3%          26.0%          24.9%          32 0%            13.0
=> Effectve margin (average on-lending Interest rate less effectve cost
of GOK Financing)                                                   15.3%          204%           14.6%          22.9%            103
- 44 -









70'                                                                                    80
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
KG RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
-  UZBEKISTAN  ~~~K                                     ZAKSTA
TAJ IAA KI STA      KGO RURALKU FIANE RJET0
ToTrzAlmTo OF L           S                                            a S  \      F
-      RAILROADS                Chu     28         2,401
_______                                                    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HBoLk   Isk   K  " ak
0  SELECTED CITIS                                                  50 1
o                                                                   7rO  D u  2b  o s
''  ' '___RAILROADS_______Chui_____288__2,401__ABAD  Lake                Kara.-Sa
UZEITHER ROD                 s       0         ,9                 n,>,,(        ->
- ^ -  INTER ATIONAL  B UNDARIESBatken   451,057  IRA   g   ~   l   \ C  H  I N  A   <
q             Totul (KGS}   1,114   15,820             g  AFGHANISTAN  tj o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  50 100 1o
o ~ ~~~~~~                                                 ~     ~~~~        ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z10  i5  160\  









IMAGING-
Report No.:        24324
Type:     ICR



