Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2959 KG
Project Agreement
 (Rural Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
 KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Dated  July 3, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2959 KG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (KAFC).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Kyrgyz Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,900,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that  KAFC agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
      (B)
by a subsidiary loan and equity investment agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KAFC, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to KAFC on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan and equity investment agreement; and
      WHEREAS KAFC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Management and Operations of  KAFC
      Section 2.01. (a) KAFC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with 
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and 
personnel.
      (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and KAFC shall otherwise agree, KAFC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. (a) KAFC shall, during Project implementation, adhere to the 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, which sets forth the eligibility 
criteria for Investment Enterprises, and the terms and conditions to be contained in 
any Sub-loan agreement to be entered into between KAFC and an Investment Enterprise in 
connection with any Sub-loan.
      (b)
KAFC undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Operational Manual.
      (c)
KAFC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of KAFC; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan and Equity 
Investment Agreement, and the SFCOP Administration Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required, respectively, for Parts A (ii) and B 
(ii) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a)  KAFC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project.
      (b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
KAFC shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and KAFC, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with KAFC on 
said plan.
      Section 2.05. KAFC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan and Equity Investment Agreement, and the SFCOP Administration Agreement. Except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, KAFC shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan and Equity Investment Agreement, or the SFCOP Administration 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.06. (a) KAFC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan and Equity 
Investment Agreement, and the SFCOP Administration Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)
KAFC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KAFC of its 
Page  3
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan and Equity Investment Agreement, 
or the SFCOP Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) KAFC shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of KAFC.
      (b)
KAFC shall:
             (i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements
                   (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                   related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                   to the Association;
            (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in
                    any case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                    each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                    statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
                    of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                    and 
           (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and financial statements
                    as well as the audit thereof as the Association shall from
                    time to time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02.  KAFC shall, during Project implementation, maintain an average 
recovery rate on all of its outstanding Sub-loans and all other loans in its portfolio 
equal to or greater than seventy-five percent (75%).
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
KAFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                    terminate; or
           (ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify KAFC of 
this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
Page  4
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For KAFC:
Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
195, Abdymomunova Str.
Bishkek c., 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
 Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KAFC or by 
KAFC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as the Board of 
Directors shall designate in writing, and the Chair of the Board of Directors shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
       Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kadir T. Yurukoglu
 Acting Regional Vice President
 Europe and Central Asia
KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL 
     FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
 Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1. 
The terms and conditions of Sub-loans shall be specified in the Operational 
Manual.
2.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby KAFC shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Association and KAFC, including the right to:
       (a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Page  5
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain 
adequate records;
       (b)
require that: (i) the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being 
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts 
therefor, and, in the case of consultants’ services, of their quality and the 
competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
       (c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
       (d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
       (e)
obtain all such information as the Association or KAFC shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and  \0c(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment 
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with KAFC.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
      Goods under Part A (ii) of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part A (ii) of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  6
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
      Consultants’ services under Part B (ii) of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for consultants and training may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
       Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under Part B (ii) of the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
consultants’ services and training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
Page  7
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program 
1.
KAFC shall:
      (a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
      (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 1999, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
During Project implementation, KAFC shall maintain a sufficient number of 
qualified staff and adequate facilities, necessary for Project implementation and  
satisfactory to the Association.
3.
KAFC shall: (i) by January 31, 1998, prepare and submit to the Association, for 
its review and comment, a draft medium term (2 to 3 year) business plan, setting forth 
general policies and strategies related to KAFC’s operations; (ii) within thirty (30) 
days following the Association’s review of and comment upon such a draft, finalize and 
adopt the business plan, taking into consideration the Association’s comments and 
recommendations on the draft; and (iii) thereafter, carry out such a plan in 
accordance with its terms.
