RESTRICTED
Report No.  PTR-75a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
TUNISIA
May 12, 1971
Transportation Projects Department


﻿Currency ESuivalenta
Currency Unit       - Dinar (D)
D1                  - US$L.905
US$ 1               * D 0.525
Fiscal Year
January 1 - Deceber 31
Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric:  British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                -
1 kilometer (km)             0.6? miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   - 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 heetare (ha)             - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                - 0.22 British gallono (imp gal)
- 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)       - 2,204 pounds (lbs)
Abbreviations and Aeroyas
BCEM - Bureau Central d'Stvdes pour les Squipements d'Outre-Mer
DPC       - Direction des Ponts at Chaussees
GET       - General d'ntreprise Tunisionne
GNP       - Gross national product
GP        - Routes de grand pareours
MC        - Routes de moaennes comunications
PK        - kilometric point
SCET      - Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement de Torritoire Cooperation
SM- Service d'ntretion de Materiel
SETEC     - Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques
80MATRA - Societe de Matertel et de Travaux Publics
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program


﻿TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................    i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................    1
2.   BACKGROUND ...........................................     2
A.   Economic Setting .................................    2
B.   The Transport System .................. ..........    3
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ...............    3
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ....................................    5
A.   The Highway Network ..............................    5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ........   5
C.   Highway Administration ...........................    6
D.   Highway Expenditures and Financing ...............    7
E.   Highway Maintenance .............................    7
F.   Engineering and Construction ....................     9
4.   THE PROJECT ...........................................    9
A.   Description ....................................      9
B.   Highway Construction and Improvement..............   10
C.   Bridge Reconstruction ............................   11
D.   Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads ....   11
E.   Reorganization and Strengthening of Highway
Maintenance .................................   11
F.   Construction  Supervision  .........................  12
G.   Preinvestment  Studies  ............................  12
H.   Transport  Coordination  ...........................  12
1.   Road User Taxation and Road Transport
Tariff  Study  ................................  13
J.   Cost Estimates and Financing .....................   13
K.   Disbursements ....................................   15
L.   Execution ........................................   15
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................................    16
A.   Highway Construction and Improvement ............ o.16
B.   Bridge Reconstruction ............................   17
C.   Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads ....   18
D.   Preinvestment Studies ...........................    19
6.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .....................................    19
This re ort was prepared by Messrs. F. So es, J. Doyen (Engineers)
and 1. 9mith (Economist), and was edited gy Miss J. Murphy.


﻿
﻿TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLES:
1. Highway Network - 1970
2. Highway and Motor Vehicle Densities - 1969
3. Highway Expenditures: 1962 - 1970
4. Highway Improvement Program
5. Reconstruction of Bridges and Culverts
6. Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
7. Consultants' Services for Technical Assistance and Road Transport
Study
8. Road Preinvestment Studies
9. Project Cost Estimates
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX:    Description of Roads in Highway Improvement Program
CHART:    Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Highway
Administration
MAPS:
1. Tunisia - Road Improvement and Preinvestment Studies
2. Tunisia - Reconstruction of Bridges; Resurfacing and Rehabilitation
Works


﻿
﻿TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tunisia's economic growth is highly dependent on the transport
system, as evidenced in late 1969 when, as a result of flood damage to
transport facilities, both production and exports were considerably re-
duced. The movement of large-volume goods for export, such as phosphates,
iron ore and bulk agricultural produce, relies on the railway, while ag-
ricultural development and the fast growing tourist industry both depend
on a reliable and efficient highway network. The extensive highway system
served the country's needs quite adequately for many years and the Govern-
ment has concentrated on development of the ports and railway. The Bank
Group has made two loans (380-TUN and 573-TUN) for ports and a loan (606-
TUN) and a credit (150-TUN) for railway development.
ii.       A transport survey financed by the United Nations Development
Programme in 1967-68 indicated, however, that the highway network was
urgently in need of modernization. The main coastal highway (GP1) and
other roads radiating from Tunis are beginning to be congested, and
pavements on the most travelled roads are breaking up. The transport
survey also revealed two fundamental defects in transport policy: namely,
the absence of any effective administrative machinery for intermodal coor-
dination in the transport sector, and an excessive degree of regulation.
iii.      The project is designed to meet the needs highlighted by the
transport survey and to assure that economic development is not hindered
by rising transport costs. Under the project, about 275 km of primary and
secondary roads will be improved; 51 bridges and culverts, some destroyed
by floods, will be reconstructed; and about 1,920 km of paved roads will be
resurfaced and rehabilitated. Consultants will be provided to assist the
Government in (a) supervising construction, (b) reorganizing and strengthen-
ing maintenance operations, (c) identifying and engineering a further group
of roads for improvement, (d) carrying out a study of road user taxation
and road transport tariffs, and (e) improving transport coordination.
Engineering for the project was financed under Loan S2-TUN, made in 1969.
iv.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$42.2 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$23.0 million equivalent or 55%.
The proposed loan of US$24.0 million will cover these foreign exchange
costs and refund the highway engineering loan (S2-TUN) in the amount of
US$850,000. The Government will meet the local costs of the project,
which are expected to amount to about US$19.2 million equivalent.
v.        The Direction des Ponts et Chaussees in the Ministry of Public
Works and the Direction des Transports in the Ministry of the National
Economy will be responsible for execution of the project. They will be
assisted by consultants employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. All construction under the project will be by contractors selected
through international competitive bidding among prequalified firms in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
i1. The project is economically sound and of high priority. On the
oasis of savings in highway user costs, the principal elements of the project,
Lamely, highway construction and improvement, bridge reconstruction, and paved
oad resurfacing and rehabilitation, are expected to yield an overall economic
eturn in excess of 16%.
ii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.0
tillion equivalent to the Republic of Tunisia for a term of 30 years, in-
:luding a five-year grace period. The proposed term reflects the longest
nticipated economic life: namely, that of the large bridges.


﻿TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project arises from preinvestment studies initiated and carried
out with the assistance of the Bank Group. A 1966 Bank economic mission
recommended a comprehensive survey of the transport sector, and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financed such a survey in 1967-1968
with the Bank as the executing agency. On the basis of the recommendations
of this study, which was carried out by the Italian consultants, Italconsult,
and of studies by the French consultants, Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM), who were providing various services to the
Roads Directorate (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees - DPC), the Bank identified
a high-priority highway investment program consisting of the reconstruction
of selected roads and bridges and the improvement of highway maintenance
throughout the country.
1.02      In 1969, the Bank made an engineering loan (S2-TUN) of US$850,000,
the first Bank Group lending operation in Tunisia's highway sector, to help
finance preparation of this highway investment program. The French consul-
tants, Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques (SETEC), were commissioned
to prepare the economic studies and detailed engineering for 340 km of pri-
mary and secondary roads; the joint venture of French consultants, Societe
Centrale pour 1'Equipement de Territoire Cooperation (SCET) and BCEOM, was
retained to prepare both the detailed engineering of 67 bridges and culverts
and a highway maintenance study. The consultants' final reports, including
bidding documents, have been completed.
1.03      The Government has requested assistance in financing all the
elements studied under Loan S2-TUN which have been found to be economically
justified. These make up an investment program totalling about US$48 million
equivalent, which, in line with the Government's absorptive capacity, must
be spread over a five-year period. The present project consists of part of
this investment program and comprises those elements which can start before
the end of 1973. The project includes (a) the construction and improvement
of about 275 km of primary and secondary roads, (b) the reconstruction of 51
bridges and culverts, (c) resurfacing and rehabilitation of about 1,920 km
of paved roads, (d) reorganization and strengthening of maintenance operations,
and (e) preinvestment studies for improvement of a further 350 km of roads.
The remaining elements of the investment program arising from the highway
engineering project - i.e., improvement of 65 km of primary roads and re-
surfacing and rehabilitation of 430 km of paved roads - will be considered
for inclusion in future lending operations.
1.04      In addition to making recommendations for investments in the var-
ious transport modes, the transport survey concluded that coordination in
the transport sector was in need of improvement. As a result, the Bank and
the Government have held extensive discussions on practical measures which
might be taken to create appropriate administrative machinery for transport
coordination, and to improve the efficiency of the road transport industry.


﻿- 2 -
Growing out of these discussions, the project also includes the improvement
of institutional arrangements for transport coordination, with consultant
services to supplement the staff of a transport coordinating agency in the
Government and to carry out a study of and make recommendations on road
user taxation and road transport tariffs.
1.05      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$42.2 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about US$23.0 million or
55%. The loan of US$24.0 million will cover these foreign exchange costs
as well as the refunding of the highway engineering loan (S2-TUN).
1.06      Following the engineering loan, this will be the first highway
project in Tunisia. Bank Group operations for transport have heretofore
been concentrated in the port and railway sectors. Two loans (380-TUN in
1964, and 573-TUN in 1968) of US$7.0 and 8.5 million equivalent have been
made for port development. Construction of the project financed under the
1964 loan was satisfactorily completed in 1967. Progress under the 1968
loan is somewhat behind schedule because of initial delays in awarding con-
tracts. Major contracts have now been awarded and execution of the project
is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Growing out of the transport survey,
a loan (606-TUN) and a credit (150-TUN) of US$8.5 million each were made in
1968 for railway development; execution of this project has started, after
delays caused by the catastrophic floods of 1969. A loan (724-TUN) of
US$7.5 million was made in early 1971 to help finance a gas pipeline.
1.07      This appraisal report is based on the economic and engineering
studies carried out by SETEC and SCET-BCEOM, on information obtained from
the Government, and on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of Messrs.
F. Soges, J. Doyen (engineers) and I. Smith (economist), which visited the
country in November 1970. The report was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Tunisia, with an area of 164,000 km 2, or about one quarter that
of France, is bordered by the Mediterranean to the north and east, Algeria
to the west, and Libya to the southeast. Its population of 5.1 million is
increasing at 2.8% per annum. The population density is highest in the
north, particularly in the Tunis area, where economic activity tends to be
concentrated. The south is characterized by large areas of infertile desert.
2.02      The gross national product (GNP) increased at an annual rate of
about 3.5% between 1964 and 1969 to a level of US$1,140 million or US$230
per capita. The contribution of agriculture to GNP is declining slowly,
but it is still the major sector accounting for over 16% and providing
nearly half of total employment. The principal agricultural products are
cereals, olives, vegetables, citrus fruits, grapes and wine. In 1969, man-
ufacturing and mining contributed about 15% and 7% respectively to GNP.


﻿- 3 -
The fastest growing sector is tourism which has increased its share from
an insignificant level in 1965 to more than 2.5% of GNP in 1969. The prin-
cipal sources of foreign exchange are tourism, crude oil, and phosphates.
2.03      Important changes have taken place in the organization of produc-
tion and distribution. In 1969, the Government reversed the accelerating
trend toward centralization, particularly the growing influence of the ag-
ricultural cooperative system, and policy is now to encourage private ini-
tiative. Agricultural policy has been modified to permit the co-existence
of public, cooperative and private farming. It is still too early to assess
the longer term effects of these organizational changes on production.
B. The Transport System
2.04      The economic development of Tunisia is heavily dependent on a
reliable transport system. Movement of large-volume goods for export, such
as phosphates, iron ore and bulk agricultural produce, relies on the railway,
while an efficient highway system is required to promote agriculture develop-
ment and to serve the fast growing tourism industry. The importance of
transport was all too clearly demonstrated after the heavy floods of late
1969 when both production and exports were considerably reduced because
transport facilities had been badly damaged.
2.05      On gaining its independence in 1956, Tunisia inherited a relative-
ly well-developed transport system. An extensive highway system crisscrosses
the country (see Chapter 3). The 2,000 km railway, which is operated by the
Government-owned Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens, consists of
a main line from Bizerte in the north to Gabes in the south together with
five branches connecting the phosphate and iron mines in the west with this
main line and the Mediterranean ports. Four major ports, operated by an
autonomous port authority, Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens, handle
most export-import traffic. Two international airports serve tourist traf-
fic.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.06      The UNDP-financed transport survey and subsequent Bank missions
have revealed two fundamental defects in Tunisian transport policy: namely,
(a) the absence of any effective administrative machinery for inter-modal
coordination in the transport sector, and (b) an excessive degree of regu-
lation.
2.07      There is no single authority with responsibility for the formula-
tion of policy and the coordination of operations and investment for the
transport sector as a whole. This responsibility is, at present, shared
among several agencies with no formal machinery for guiding or coordinating
their activities and decisions. The Ministry of Planning has broad overall
responsibility for the development of the transport sector as for all other
sectors, but there are no effective channels for the provision of data and
information on the aims and requirements of the various sub-sectors, and


﻿liaison with the Government agencies more directly concerned with transpor-
tation is poor. Consequently, it is difficult for the Government to formu-
late a comprehensive and consistent transport policy and to coordinate the
activities and plan a rational development of the various transport modes.
2.08      The Government is aware of this deficiency, and agrees with the
Bank that responsibility for coordination should be vested in a single
entity. Various solutions have been examined by the Government which has
now decided to vest responsibility for transport policy and coordination
in the Direction des Transports of the Ministry of the National Economy.
The power of the Direction des Transports will be widened and its staff
augmented sufficiently to enable it to discharge these functions effectively.
Technical assistance will be provided under the project for this purpose
(para 4.11). The Direction des Transports will also provide the secretariat
for the recently instituted National Council of Transportation, a consulta-
tive council comprising representatives of transport agencies and users, to
permit an effective liaison between the two bodies. The measures that will
be taken to enable the Direction des Transport to undertake the role of
transport coordinating agency were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
2.09      Regulation of transport originated under the French administration,
principally with the object of protecting the railway against road competi-
tion. Further regulatory measures, regrouping small operators into a limited
number of public transport enterprises with assigned routes and tariffs, were
introduced when public road transport was nationalized following independence.
The transport regulations have not been updated and in many respects appear
obsolete or unduly restrictive. Restrictive regulations which have affected
the efficiency of rail transport are being eliminated or modified under the
current Bank/IDA railway project. Many of the numerous and cumbersome reg-
ulations applicable to road transport which have accumulated appear inconsis-
tent with efficient use of existing transport capacity. For example, licens-
ing of both public and private carriers is strictly limited, and public road
transport is subject to a fixed maximum tariff. These regulations have en-
couraged overequipment of owner transport, and black-market activities.
While there is little evidence of distortion in the current distribution of
traffic between road and rail, the regulations have almost certainly had an
inhibiting effect on flexibility which is road transport's greatest potential
advantage. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on mea-
sures proposed by the Government to modify current restrictions on road
transport. While these changes should result In a more efficient use of
resources, they will do little to lessen the central control of road transport
capacity, operations and rates. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that, before January 1974, it will undertake a study of road transport
regulations to assess the effectiveness of the new regulatory structure.
2.10      The current road user taxation system was also inherited from an
earlier period and has evolved in a rather arbitrary manner. Current road
user charges appear to bear little relationship to actual costs imposed on
the road network, and are unnecessarily complex. A simplification and
rationalization of the tax system is therefore necessary to secure an
economic allocation of traffic to the least cost modes and vehicle types.


﻿- 5 -
The Bank has assisted the Government in the preparation of terms of reference
for an appropriate study of road user taxation and road transport tariffs
which will be undertaken by consultants under the project (para 4.12). During
negotiations, the Government agreed that it will review the eventual study
recommendations with the Bank and implement them where appropriate.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      Tunisia is endowed with a fairly extensive highway network, total-
ling about 15,500 km of roads, of which about 7,300 km are paved (see Table
1). The primary and secondary roads interconnect Tunis and the other im-
portant population centers such as Sousse, Kairouan, Sfax and Gabes, and
link them with their agricultural hinterlands. The density of roads is
highest in the mountainous northern region where most economic activity
takes place, and decreases toward the arid south. The average road density
is about 91 km per 1,000 km2 or 3.3 km per 1,000 inhabitants which is simi-
lar to that of Morocco (see Table 2).
3.02      The highway system has evolved in phases over the past century.
Road transport emerged only slowly as the main mode of inland transport.
As traffic grew, existing earth tracks were given a light bituminous sur-
face treatment which served the country's needs quite adequately for a
number of years. No major investments have been required in the highway
sector during the past decade, and the Government has concentrated on de-
veloping the ports and railway. Highways have been gaining steadily in
importance, however. Urban development and the growth of agricultural pro-
duction and tourism have prompted substantial increases in road transport,
which presently accounts for about 40% of all freight movement as well as
most passenger traffic.
3.03      While the present network is generally adequate in coverage and
length, its design characteristics are becoming insufficient to handle
growing traffic volumes. The main coastal highway (GP1) and other roads
radiating from Tunis are beginning to be congested, and pavements on the
most travelled roads are breaking up. Unless the existing system is re-
habilitated and improved to modern standards, vehicle operating costs will
increase substantially, hindering economic development. As the need emerges
to modernize heavily travelled trunk roads and to strengthen light and aging
pavements, the highway system is faced with the next phase of its develop-
ment. The project will initiate that phase.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.04      Road traffic, which is growing at about 6% p.a., tends to be
fairly heavily concentrated. Paved roads, accounting for about half the
total network, carry 90% of total traffic volumes. About two-thirds of
the automobiles and heavy trucks are registered in the Tunis area. Light
trucks and vans, which serve the agricultural sector, are distributed more
widely throughout the country.


﻿- 6 -
3.05      In 1969, the vehicle fleet was estimated at about 55,000, of which
about 11,500 were commercial freight vehicles and about 2,000 were commer-
cial passenger vehicles. The total fleet grew at about 4.5% p.a. between
1962 and 1966; since then, the growth rate has leveled off at about 2.7%
p.a., partly due to stringent control of foreign exchange for vehicle im-
portation. The growth rate of commercial vehicles averaged about 12% p.a.
between 1962 and 1966, largely because of the rapid expansion of agricul-
tural cooperatives during that period and the resulting widespread use of
light vans in rural areas. This growth rate has also leveled off at about
2.7% in recent years, though this lower rate of increase is partly offset
by an increase in average capacity of vehicles. Total freight capacity was
estimated at about 33,900 metric tons in 1969. Public carriers account
for about 30% of capacity, and private carriers, the remaining 70%.
C. Highway Administration
3.06      The Direction des Ponts et Chaussees (DPC) is the directorate in
the Ministry of Public Works responsible for administration, planning,
construction, and maintenance of the highway network. DPC headquarters
includes (a) an Administration and Accounting Division; (b) a central Engi-
neering and Construction Division in charge of planning, engineering and
construction supervision; and (c) two highway maintenance divisions, one
each for the northwestern and the southeastern regions. The DPC field
organization includes 15 subdivisions, each with responsibility for about
600 to 1,100 km of roads. The DPC draws its equipment from a large pool
which is managed and maintained by the Service d'Entretien de Materiel
(SEM), a division of another directorate in the Ministry of Public Works.
3.07      As part of their assignment under Loan S2-TUN, SCET-BCEOM studied
the highway organization. While they found the organization of the DPC to
be generally adequate, the consultants recommended reorganization of DPC
headquarters to concentrate responsibility for highway maintenance in one
division and to give the DPC full responsibility for the management of its
own equipment fleet. The suggested reorganization (see Chart) will be under-
taken as part of the project (paras. 4.06 and 4.07).
3.08      Until early 1970, the DPC used its own forces to carry out highway
construction and maintenance works, and over the years built up a large
equipment fleet and construction force. The fleet was underutilized, how-
ever, because of the lack of flexibility in allocating equipment and the
lengthy immobilization of equipment awaiting repair. In addition, support
of the large labor force became a burden for the DPC budget. As the Gov-
ernment decided to increase highway maintenance and to undertake a highway
modernization program, it became apparent that the DPC could not continue
to carry out all construction and maintenance operations utilizing only its
own forces. Thus, in 1970 the Government, in line with its policy to en-
courage private initiative (para. 2.03), began using contractors for road
construction works and periodic resurfacing of paved roads. Under the new
policy the DPC concentrates its own forces on routine maintenance and
emergency repairs, while continuing to plan, engineer and supervise works
let to contractors. The Government is converting its existing highway
construction force into a road construction firm (para. 3.19).


﻿- 7 -
3.09      Positions of responsibility within the DPC are manned by capable
Tunisian engineers (about 80) and technicians (about 200). In addition,
several engineers provided by France assist the Engineering and Construc-
tion Division. All DPC engineers have been trained abroad, mainly in France.
Within 4-5 years, the domestic needs for trained civil engineers should be
met by graduates of the National Engineering School, which opened in Tunis
in October 1970.
3.10      The DPC's labor force numbers about 2,200. The total number of
personnel appears adequate, but the labor force is aging and includes too
large a proportion of workers with no specialized training. Although the
DPC has adequate training capacity, it has not been able to induce its
senior workers to take specialized training nor to retain successfully-
trained younger workers because its rigid seniority system and job classif-
ication do not provide the employment opportunities available in other
sectors and abroad for qualified workers, especially mechanics. These
personnel problems are receiving the attention of the Government and were
discussed with the Bank during negotiations.
D. Highway Expenditures and Financing
3.11      Expenditures for highway construction, maintenance operations and
administration are made from allocations in the national budget, while new
equipment has normally been purchased with external financing, mainly from
the United States Agency for International Development and France. Alloca-
tions to the DPC for its recurrent expenditures have remained fairly con-
stant over the last eight years. As a result, allocations for maintenance
have fallen far below actual needs as maintenance requirements increased
(para. 3.15).
3.12      The present system of allocation does not allow a clear dis-
tinction between maintenance operations and construction of other civil
works executed by DPC forces for local authorities. The administrative
accounting system, although fairly well kept, does not provide information
necessary to monitor execution of work programs, to controls costs, and
to evaluate efficiency of operations. The need for DPC to establish
procedures to manage and control expenditures assumes greater importance
because of the increasing use of contractors. Improved budgeting and
control of works performed will be introduced under the project (para.
4.07).
E. Highway Maintenance
3.13      SCET-BCEOM thoroughly reviewed the highway maintenance situation
in their study. Their recommendations cover organizational, technical
and financial aspects of DPC maintenance operations and are reflected in
the reorganization and strengthening of maintenance to be undertaken under
the project.


﻿- 8 -
3.14      With increased traffic volumes in recent years, especially on
paved roads which represent the bulk of the maintenance workload, the DPC
forces were unable to keep pace with maintenance requirements. The DPC
attempted to cope with the situation by delaying periodic resurfacing of
paved roads, and by maintaining the more heavily trafficked roads through
intermediary measures such as extensive patching which, in the long run, is
more expensive. The number of kilometers resurfaced annually decreased from
500-600 km in 1962 to 150-250 km in 1969, which then represented only about
3% of the paved network. The consultants estimate that the DPC now faces
an accumulated backlog of about 2,350 km of periodic maintenance, including
about 250 km of full pavement rehabilitation. Under the project, an
initial 1,920 km of this backlog will be eliminated and the number of roads
resurfaced annually will be gradually increased to an appropTiate level.
3.15      One reason the DPC was unable to cope with increasing maintenance
requirements was insufficient allocation of funds. Highway maintenance
expenditures over the past eight years (Table 3) stagnated at about US$4
million equivalent p.a., or about US$360 per kilometer. When price escala-
tion is taken into account, the real value of maintenance outlays are esti-
mated to have decreased by about 20%. The consultants recommend that annual
highway maintenance expenditures for routine and periodic maintenance
should be increased, to reach about US$5.4 million equivalent by 1974 (i.e.
about US$460 per kilometer 1970 value). During negotiations, the Government
committed itself to a detailed financing plan by which this goal will be
reached.
3.16      During the 1960's the DPC built up a substantial equipment pool
including more than 1,500 vehicles and pieces of heavy equipment with a
total residual value in 1969 of about US$10 million. About 60% of this
fleet was assigned to highway maintenance. The consultants took a careful
inventory of available equipment and found that much of it was aging or
ill-suited to the type of routine maintenance works which are to be
executed by DPC forces. They have recommended the renewal and extension
of the maintenance equipment fleet over a four-year period, at a cost of
about US$2.5 million. The Government has already obtained external financ-
ing, mainly from France, to acquire about US$2 million worth of equipment.
3.17      The SEM, in the Equipment Directorate, is currently in charge
of managing and maintaining the DPC equipment fleet. It carries out
repairs and periodic maintenance of equipment in its large central work-
shop in Tunis, and supervises equipment used by the DPC's subdivisions
through its mobile inspection and service units. While the SEM has the
potential to operate efficiently, it has, in the past, incuried long delays
in repairs because of shortage of spare parts and cumbersome procurement
procedures, thus largely accounting for the lack of efficiency of DPC
operations. The reorganization of maintenance operations recommended by
SCET-BCEO' and included in the project gives the DPC responsibility for
management of its own equipment (para. 4.07).


﻿- 9-
F. Engineering and Construction
3.18      Engineering of highway works is carried out by the Engineering
and Construction Division of the DPC. The Government intends to utilize
consultants for the engineering of major works, as it did in preparation
of the improvement works to be undertaken, and wishes especially to encourage
the local consulting industry. A number of local consulting firms will be
called upon to prepare engineering for the pavement rehabilitation included
in the project. The Engineering and Construction Division's well-equipped
and well-staffed laboratory executes pavement surveys and materials and soil
studies for identification, engineering and supervision of highway projects.
3.19      As mentioned above, the Government recently shifted away from
execution of highway construction works with DPC forces and now uses con-
tractors for such works. In order to make use of its existing highway
construction capacity and to insure that foreign contracting firms and their
Tunisian subsidiaries will be kept under competitive pressure by an indepen-
dent national firm, the Government has decided to establish a partly Govern-
ment-owned construction company, the Societe de Materiel et de Travaux
Publics (SOMATRA), utilizing former DPC construction forces and equipment
as a base. Another semi-public construction firm, the Generale d'Entreprise
Tunisienne (GET), has been operating in competition with private firms for
the construction of buildings.
3.20      In line with assurances given by the Government during negotiations
for the highway engineering loan in 1969, the Government has consulted with
the Bank on the articles of agreement of SOMATRA and has retained an adequate
amount of equipment in the DPC for highway maintenance. As plans for the
establishment of SOMATRA progressed, the Bank was afforded suitable opportu-
nity to review the conditions under which it would operate. During loan
negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and agreed upon spe-
cific conditions under which firms that are partly owned by the Government
would be eligible to pre-qualify for works under the project.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project consists of the following:
(a)  construction and improvement of about 275 km of primary
and secondary roads;
(b)  reconstruction of 51 bridges and culverts;
(c)  resurfacing and rehabilitation of about 1,920 km of paved roads;
(d) reorganization and strengthening of maintenance operations;


﻿- 10 -
(e) studies for the possible improvement of an additional 350 km
of roads;
(f) improvement of institutional arrangements for transport
coordination;
(g) study of road user taxation and road transport tariffs.
B.   Highway Construction and Improvement (Map 1)
4.02      About 340 km of primary and secondary roads studied under the
highway engineering project were found to require substantial improvement
to bring them to adequate standards for the traffic they will serve. The
project includes the construction or improvement of all the roads studied
except about 65 km of the Tunis-Beja road, execution of which has been
scheduled to begin after 1973. The 275 km of roads included in the present
project serve the southern hinterland of Tunis and the coastal region of the
Gulf of Hammamet, one of Tunisia's most important tourist areas. While the
roads are now in fair condition, they will not be able to stand up to growing
traffic requirements. Pavements are wearing out and must be strengthened
to avoid breaking up in the near future. Other improvements are required
to render pavement widths uniform and adequate, to correct curves, profiles
and cross-sections, to provide adequate drainage, to realign short.sections,
to bypass congested townships, and, generally, to improve the safety and
efficiency of road use. The roads in this modernization program, described
in the Annex, are the following:
(i) Expressway south of Tunis with branches to Turki
and Borj Cedria (65.6 km);
(ii) Turki-Enfida road (57.2 km);
(iii) Enfida road toward Kairouan (41.2 km);
(iv) Turki-Nabeul road (23.8 km);
(v) Borj Cedria-Korba road (45.6 km);
(vi) Tunis-Cheylus road (26.2 km);
(vii) Tunis-Monarghia road (16.5 km).
4.03      The project roads will be constructed or improved to standards
appropriate to future traffic requirements (see Table 4). To the extent
possible, congested areas in townships will be bypassed. The design stan-
dards and technical solutions were selected after an economic evaluation
of alternative improvements (see Chapter 5). Geometric characteristics
were selected to increase design speeds while providing uniform and safe
driving conditions. The structural characteristics of the pavement have
been established to withstand expected heavy traffic volumes. Standards


﻿- 11 -
and technical solutions developed under the project should serve to orient
the new phase of the development of the highway network, and serve as guide-
lines for future road design.
C. Bridge Reconstruction (Map 2)
4.04      Under the project, 51 bridges and culverts will be reconstructed,
replacing structures which have either collapsed because of floods, or which
have insufficient load capacity or width. The most frequent causes for the
destruction of bridges and culverts have been the lack of a waterway opening
large enough to discharge flood water and the insufficient depth of founda-
tions to withstand scour. The consultants conducted hydrological studies to
determine appropriate bridge openings and foundation depth, considering
expected flow levels including the probabilities of catastrophic floods.
Their studies should help improve the methodology of bridge engineering
for future application as well. The detailed list of bridges and culverts,
with an indication of their present condition and the principal charac-
teristics of the proposed new structures, is given in Table 5.
D. Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
4.05      Over the four years of the project, about 1,730 km of paved
roads will be resurfaced and another 190 km which are generally exposed
to flooding and have deteriorated badly will be rehabilitated (Map 2).
These works (Table 6) which represent the first phase of the resurfacing
and rehabilitaton program, will eliminate about 75% of the backlog of
periodic maintenance identified by SCET-ECEOM on the basis of an extensive
survey of all paved roads. The engineering for these works will be carried
out by consultants provided under the project.
E. Reorganization and Strengthening of Highway Maintenance
4.06      Under the project measures will be taken to reorganize and
strengthen the highway maintenance organization to enable the DPC to
eliminate the existing backlog of periodic resurfacing and to increase
maintenance operations to the level recomended by SCET-BCEOM in their
maintenance study. The efficiency of operations will be improved through
better planning, management and control. During negotiations, the principal
aims of the reorganization were discussed and agreed upon; namely,
(a) that highway maintenance will be defined as a distinct
responsibility within the DPC,
(b) that the DPC will have full responsibility for management
of its equipment, and
(c)  that all technical aspects of the work of the DPC will be
programed and monitored in headquarters.
4.07      Accordingly, the reorganization includes the creation of a single
highway maintenance division with responsibility for coordinating the
maintenance activities of the 15 field subdivisions. A division of the DPC


﻿- 12 -
will be given full responsibility for the management and renewal of equipment,
including the budgeting of funds for equipment operations and repair. The
DPC will be allowed to continue to use the services of the SEM for repairs,
but will also be free to use other repair shops, including private garages
if convenient, to ensure expeditious servicing. The Government confirmed
during negotiations that it will take the measures necessary to assure the
timely renewal of maintenance equipment and the adequate supply of spare
parts. To monitor execution of all maintenance work, including the resurfac-
ing and rehabilitation of paved roads, an Organization and Methods Office
attached to the Director of the DPC will be created. Two experts will be
provided under the project to help establish the office and to introduce im-
proved procedures for planning, management and cost accounting. The Govern-
ment agreed during negotiations that the above reorganization would be under-
taken within one year of signature of the loan.
F. Construction Supervision
4.08      The DPC wishes to build up its capacity for contract supervision.
Under the project, a special unit will be established within the Engineering
and Construction Division with responsibility for prequalification and
bidding, and for construction supervision. The organization, staffing and
responsibilities of the project supervision unit, as well as the timing for
its establishment, were discussed and agreed during negotiations. Under the
project, the unit will be strengthened by three qualified engineers to be
provided by consultants (Table 7). These engineers will train the DPC
staff in contract supervision and will stay as long as their services are
required. The consultants will also provide, as and when needed, additional
experts to assist the DPC project unit with special problems which may arise.
4.09      The DPC laboratory will support this special unit in its super-
vision task. To assure that, throughout execution of the project, the
laboratory has sufficient foreign exchange to purchase equipment and
supplies, the project also includes a provision of US$80,000 for such
equipment.
G. Preinvestment Studies
4.10      Studies will be carried out under the project to prepare the next
group of high priority roads in need of modernization. The studies will be
carried out in three phases. Phase I will comprise a rapid deflection sur-
vey of about 600 km of paved roads (see Map 1) to identify weak pavements.
(Table 8 lists the roads to be surveyed.) Feasibility studies for perhaps
400 km of roads will be carried out under Phase II. About 350 km would
probably be engineered under Phase III.
H. Transport Coordination
4.11      As mentioned above, no effective administrative machinery exists
for inter-modal coordination in the transport sector, but the Government
will shortly augment the powers and the staff of the Direction des Transports
in the Ministry of the National Economy to enable it to undertake this


﻿- 13 -
function (para 2.08). Technical assistance (see Table 7) will be provided
under the project to aid and train the staff of the Direction des Transports
for this purpose.
I. Road User Taxation and Road Transport Tariff Study
4.12      As mentioned in paragraph 2.10, a study of road user taxation and
road transport tariffs will be provided for under the project, with the
objective of devising a more rational tax structure conducive to an efficient
use of road transport resources. The study will be undertaken by the same
consultants who will be providing technical assistance to the Direction
des Transports, supplemented by an additional expert in transport taxation
and tariffs from the same consulting firm and by staff from the Government.
J. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.13      The estimated capital cost of the project, given in detail in
Table 9, is summarized below:
--------D'00-------      ------ US$'000--------   %
Local Foreign Total      Local Foreign   Total Foreign
Highway Improvement
-Construction             4,850   5,925  10,775    9,237  11,290  20,527    55
-Land acquisition           600       -     600    1,143       -   1,143     0
Bridge reconstruction        995   1,216   2,211    1,890   2,320   4,210    55
Paved road resurfacing
and rehabilitation       1,890   2,311   4,201    3,600   4,400   8,000    55
Consulting services          318     758   1,076      610   1,440   2,050    70
Laboratory equipment           -      42      42        -      80      80   100
Subtotal              8,653  10,252  18,905   16,480  19,530  36,010
Contingencies
-Quantity increases       1,077   1,336   2,413    2,050   2,550   4,600
-Price variation            351     484     835      670     920   1_590
Subtotal              1,428   1,820   3,248    2,720   3,470   6,190
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       109081  122072   2130                      2      55
Refunding of Loan S2-TUN                                      850
23,850
PROPOSED LOAN AMOUNT   US$24.0 million
4.14      The cost estimates for the highway improvement program, shown in
detail on Table 4, are based on unit prices derived from a detailed study by
SETEC of expected outputs and prices of labor and equipment, and an estimated
general percentage for overhead costs and profits. The consultants' esti-
mates were checked against cost data obtained from recent force account works
and are reasonable. The cost estimates for the bridge reconstruction,
shown in detail in Table 5, were established by SCET-BCEOM on the same basis


﻿- 14 -
as those for highway improvement. The estimates for resurfacing and rehabil-
itation works, shown in detail in Table 6, were derived by SCET-BCEOM from
per-kilometer estimates.
4.15      The contingency allowance for price escalation on construction
works reflects recent trends of price increase in the construction industry
and in equipment manufacturing. On local costs, the contingency allowance
provides for a 5% p.a. price escalation during construction, which reflects
the price increase taking place in Tunisia at the present time. On foreign
costs, the contingency allowance (7% p.a.) reflects the high probable esti-
mate of price escalation in those foreign countries from which contractors,
materials or equipment are expected to originate. The contingency allow-
ance for construction works also provides for a 10% increase in physical
quantities in highway improvement works. For bridges, the allowance for
quantity increases has been raised to 20% because of the greater uncertain-
ties involved in bridge works, such as the depth of foundations and the risk
of interruptions and damage due to flooding. Since the exact scope of the
paving and rehabilitation works will be determined in the course of detailed
engineering as the program proceeds, an allowance of 20% for physical over-
runs is also provided for the resurfacing and rehabilitation works.
4.16      The cost of the engineering for resurfacing and rehabilitation
work (Table 6) and for the preinvestment studies (Table 8) are estimated
on the basis of per-kilometer costs derived from the highway engineering
project. The costs of other consulting services have been estimated on the
basis of man-month requirements (Table 7) and are consistent with prevailing
rates. For consulting services, as well as for imported laboratory equip-
ment, a contingency allowance of 10% has been provided to cover expected
increases in both prices and physical quantities.
4.17      The foreign exchange component of construction works under the
project has been estimated at an average of 55% assuming that about 70%
of the work will be carried out by foreign firms or their local subsidiaries
(see para. 4.22). The foreign exchange component of the cost of consultant
services has been estimated at an average of 70%, assuming that local firms
are awarded the engineering contracts for the resurfacing and rehabilitation
works.
4.18      The Bank will finance all foreign exchange costs of the project,
estimated at US$23.0 million equivalent, and will refund the highway
engineering loan (S2-TUN) in the amount of US$850,000 equivalent. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will bear the local cost of
the project, estimated at US$19.2 million equivalent. The bulk of local
expenditure requirements will fall in the three years, 1972-1974, with a
maximum of about US$6.5 million equivalent in 1974. These requirements,
as well as those for current highway expenditures (para. 3.15), have been
discussed with the Government and are considered to be within the limits of
the Government's financial capabilities.


﻿- 15 -
K. Disbursements
4.19      Funds from the loan account will be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 55% of payments made to contractors for highway
improvement, bridge reconstruction, and resurfacing
and rehabilitation works, which represents the
estimated foreign component;
(b)  the foreign exchange cost of consultants' ser-
vices, or 70% of payments made to consultants,
which represents the estimated foreign component;
and
(c) the CIF cost of imported laboratory equipment and
supplies.
4.20      The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 10.
Any surplus funds remaining in the loan account would be applied toward
additional resurfacing and rehabilitation works identified by SCET-BCEOM
in their report on highway maintenance needs (para. 3.14).
L. Execution
4.21      The Direction des Transports and the DPC will be responsible for
execution of the project. The two agencies will be assisted by consultants
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. This was confirmed
during negotiations. General administration, prequalification, bidding, and
construction supervision for construction contracts under the project will
be carried out by the special unit established within the DPC (para. 4.08).
The Government has selected the same consultants who carried out the
detailed engineering for the project, SCET-BCEOM and SETEC, to assist the
project supervision unit. This arrangement is satisfactory. Signature of
the consultants' contracts is a condition for effectiveness of the loan.
4.22      Construction works will be by contractors selected through
international competitive bidding among prequalified firms in accordance
with Bank/lDA guidelines. This was confirmed during negotiations. To
ensure that construction works are executed efficiently, the size of
contracts and the length of construction periods have been defined so as to
make them attractive to both foreign and local firms. The highway improve-
ment program will be carried out under four contracts (see Table 4) and
will call on firms with a minimum capacity of 1) 2 million p.a. The bridge
reconstruction program makes up three contracts (Table 5), grouping struc-
tures of similar type and size. The scattered resurfacing and rehabilitation
works are grouped in seven geographic lots suitable to smaller contractors,
and will call on firms with a minimum capacity of D 200,000 p.a. The size
of the resurfacing and rehabilitation contracts has been defined with a view
to promote the establishment of local road contracting firms with sufficient
skill to satisfy future requirements for periodic maintenance of paved roads.


﻿- 16 -
The scope of each contract and the proposed length of construction periods
were agreed during negotiations.
4.23      The project will be executed over the four-year period 1972-75.
The first year will be devoted to the preparation of the financing, the re-
organization of the DPC, the selection of consultants, and the preparation
of the bidding for the first construction contracts. Construction is ex-
pected to begin early in 1972. Prior to the start of improvement works, the
Government will have to acquire right-of-way. No particular problems are
envisaged. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on
the proposed schedule and the Government confirmed that it will undertake
all necessary right-of-way acquisition in good time.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      Tunisia relies on its highway system to support agricultural devel-
opment and to promote the fast growing tourist industry. Though extensive,
the highway system can no longer serve the growing traffic volumes adequately
unless brought to modern standards. Congestion and deteriorating pavements
are raising transport costs, thereby hindering economic development. The
project, through improvement of heavily travelled roads, reconstruction of
obsolete or destroyed bridges, and improvement of road maintenance, will
yield substantial savings in highway user costs. The resulting benefits,
based on a traffic growth forecast of 6% p.a., are expected to yield an
overall economic return in excess of 16%. In addition, the project is ex-
pected to yield indirect benefits from induced economic activity, but since
these are considered to be marginal they have not been included in the eco-
nomic evaluation.
A. Highway Construction and Improvement
5.02      The roads included in the improvement program (para. 4.02 and
Annex) are vital links in the transport network of the most comercially
active region of Tunisia. The selected roads carry heavy traffic volumes,
ranging from over 20,000 vpd just outside Tunis to about 500 vpd farther
from the capital. Congestion on the most heavily travelled routes, the
exits south and west of Tunis, will be relieved through new construction.
Elsewhere more reliable and efficient service will be provided through im-
provement of existing roads.
5.03      For the purpose of evaluation, the roads to be improved, Turki-
Enfida (GP1), Enfida-PK42 (GP2), Turki-Nabeul (MC27), Borj Cedrin -y'ril
(ZC26), and Tunis-Cheylus (GP3), have been divided Iinto aictions of n fvw
kilometers in length, according to physical characterisLics arid tr;lffic
conditions. The economic benefits of alternative improvements for each
section have been assessed to determine the optimum treatment in terms of
alignment, width, pavement strength, timing, etc. Construction of the exits
south and west of Tunis (the expressway and the Tunis-Monargaia road) on
the other hand, will incorporate parts of existing parallel roads so that


﻿- 17 -
the effects on separate traffic streams on each of the two parallel roads
have to be considered. Division into smaller units is not appropriate in
these two cases, and the alternatives have therefore been evaluated in their
entirety.
5.04      The economic benefits evaluated are those that arise from reduc-
tions in vehicle operating costs and journey times. The savings in vehicle
operating costs, which constitute the greater part of the benefits, have
been evaluated by conventional methods. Journey time savings have been
estimated and valued by reference to the average hourly earnings of differ-
ent categories of business travelers. Differences in highway maintenance
costs corresponding to each solution have also been taken into account.
5.05      Estimated benefits from these sources have been aggregated over
20 years for each road or variant, and internal economic rates of return
calculated to determine the most economically advantageous form of improve-
ment. Adoption of the optimum treatment results in total economic returns
for the individual roads ranging from 15% to 31% (see Table 4). The internal
economic rate of return for the highway improvement program as a whole is
about 21%. Of the major parameters taken into account in quantifying the
economic benefits of the proposed improvement works, savings in vehicle
operating costs have the least degree of accuracy because savings due to
increased average speed and relieved congestion are difficult to estimate.
If, for sensitivity purposes, a 10% reduction in these savings were assumed,
the rates of return for the individual items in the improvement program would
range between 13% and 29%, indicating that even with extremely conservative
assumptions, the proposed investments are all economically sound.
B. Bridge Reconstruction
5.06      Reconstruction of 51 of the 67 bridges and culverts studied under
the highway engineering loan was found to be economically viable. The 51
bridges and culverts included in the project are located on various primary
roads throughout the country and on the heavily travelled secondary roads
of the Cap Bon peninsula. The structures fall into three categories: (i)
bridges which have been completely destroyed, (ii) bridges which have
inadequate bearing capacity, and (iii) bridges which are too narrow.
5.07      The economic justification for reconstruction of these structures
is based on savings in vehicle operating costs. For destroyed bridges,
which have been temporarily replaced by crossings laid across the riverbeds
adjacent to the bridge sites, savings result from elimination of the riverbed
detours and of the delays or diversions occasioned by periodic flooding. Re-
placement or strengthening of bridges with inadequate bearing capacity will
permit the use of larger trucks, presently prohibited by weight restrictions,
resulting in a substantial saving in vehicle operating costs. Economic
justification for the bridges in the third category is based on the savings
which result from elimination of delays caused by slowing to cross the narrow
structures or stopping to allow other vehicles the right-of-way.


﻿- 18 -
5.08      For each bridge, estimated savings over 30 years have been
discounted together with the estimated reconstruction costs to yield internal
economic rates of return. For the 51 bridges included in the project, these
are in excess of or, in three instances, marginally below 12% (see Table 5),
which is estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital. Benefits have been
estimated conservatively throughout and would probably be significantly
greater than the analysis suggests, particularly if the value of time saving
were taken into account. The aggregate internal economic return for the
bridge reconstruction program as a whole is estimated at 16%.
C. Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
5.09      The resurfacing and rehabilitation of paved roads and the
improvement of day-to-day maintenance through reorganization and strengthen-
ing of highway maintenance operations are interdependent elements of the
project and have therefore been considered together in the economic evalua-
tion. The analysis comprises a comparison of total costs and benefits of
a maintenance program which includes (a) eliminating the entire backlog of
periodic maintenance; (b) increasing current maintenance operations to an
appropriate level; and (c) providing the technical assistance necessary to
reorganize and strengthen maintenance operations. Owing to the difficulties
of concept and measurement inherent in the evaluation of highway maintenance
improvements, the economic justification rests on a broad but highly con-
servative estimate of the benefits of implementing the proposed program in
the immediate future rather than deferring action until the progressive
deterioration of the highway system renders further postponement impractical.
5.10      For purposes of evaluation, the highway network has been divided
into different categories according to the estimated extent of maintenance
backlog. The appropriate treatment required to bring their condition up to
the required standard has been determined. As a first stage of the evalua-
tion, calculations have been made of the operating cost savings expressed
as a percentage of total operating costs that would have to accrue to the
current traffic to cover the annual cost of deferred maintenance for each
road category. Savings generated by the proposed works would be much greater
than this minimum, which average 2.2% for paved roads and 4.0% for unpaved
roads without any allowance for future traffic growth. The capital expenditure
required to make good the progressive disintegration of the highway network
because of inadequate maintenance (assuming the project were not carried out)
has also been estimated and included with the vehicle operating cost savings
as a potential benefit of the program.
5.11      To estinate an economic return on the investment, it has been
hypothesized that the program is deferred from the 1972-1976 period to the
1976-1980 period, but with some improvement on current maintenance perform-
ance in the meantime. The additional costs that would accrue to a delayed
maintenance program in terms of the progressive increase in vehicle operating
costs and rehabilitation costs have been estimated. The respective costs of
immediate and deferred implementation have then been compared to determine
the economic return on the maintenance program. This was found to be in
excess of 20%. This economic evaluation relates to a comprehensive mainte-


﻿- 19 -
nance program, a relatively small part of which will not be financed under
the present project. But as the elements to be excluded affect the more
lightly trafficked roads where potential savings are, in consequence, lower,
the economic return on the elements included in the project will be slightly
higher than that indicated above.
D. Preinvestment Studies
5.12      The roads to be studied for possible improvement were identified
by SCET-BCEOM on the basis of a comprehensive survey of primary and secondary
roads undertaken as part of the maintenance study. The selected roads carry
substantial volumes of traffic. Improvement of those found to have inade-
quate bearing capacity and design characteristics are expected to yield
substantial savings in highway user costs.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following are the major project matters which were discussed
and agreed between the Government and the Bank during negotiations:
(a)  the measures that will be taken to enable the Direction
des Transports to undertake the role of transport coor-
dinating agency (para 2.08);
(b)  the measures that will be taken to modify current
restrictions on road transport and the study of road
transport regulations to assess the effectiveness of
the new regulatory structure (para 2.09);
(c) the review of the recommendations of the road user
taxation and road transport tariff study and their
implementation (para 2.10);
(d)  the financing of highway maintenance operations (para 3.15);
(e)  the specific conditions under which firms that are partly
owned by the Government would be eligible to pre-qualify for
works under the project (para 3.20);
(f)  the reorganization of highway maintenance (para 4.07); and
(g)  the organization, staffing and responsibilities of the
project supervision unit in the DPC, and the timetable for
its establishment (para 4.08).
6.02      Signature of a contract between the Government and the consultants
selected to assist the Government in the project supervision unit is a
condition for effectiveness of the loan (para 4.21).


﻿- 20 -
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.0
million equivalent to the Republic of Tunisia for a term of 30 years in-
cluding a five-year grace period. The proposed term reflects the longest
anticipated economic life: namely, that of the large bridges.
May 12, 1971


﻿TABLE 1
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network - 1970
Carriageway   Total    % of       Administrative Classifications
Width      Length   Total       Primar    econda   / Tertia3/
(M)        (km)                 (km)       ks)        (km)
Maintained Roads
Paved            6.5 and over     639    (4%)
5.5 - 6.5     1,909   (12%)
4.5 - 5.5     2,886   (19%)
less thanh.5   1,872   (12%)
7,306   (47%)        3,198     3,024      1,084
Gravel            5.5 - 7         882    (6%)          40        271        571
Earth             4.5 - 6       2,973   (19%)         311      1,135      1,527
Total maintained roads           11,161   (72%)
Unmaintained Tracks   3 - 5       4,334   (28%)         502      1,224      2,608
TOTAL HIGHWAY NETWORK            15,495  (100%)       4zO51      5,654      5,790
1/ Routes de Grand Parcours (GP)
2/ Routes de Moyennes Communications (MC)
3/ Routes Vicinales d'Etat (RVE)
Source: SCET-BCEOM "Etude de 'Entretien Routier" October 1970
February 26, 1971


﻿TABLE 2
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway and Motor Vehicle Densities
1969
Km of road         Em of road            Motor vehicles
Country        per 1,000 km2  per 1,000 Inhabitants    per 1,000 Inhabitants
Tunisia               91                3.3                 12
Algeria              1301/              4.5                 19
Morocco              110                3.8                 17
Ivory Coast          107                7.8                 12
France             1,100               14.3                250
1/ Excluding unpopulated Sahara.
Source: - SCET-BCGM "Etude de 1'Entretien Routier" October 1970.
- Italconsult "Transport Survey" 1968.
- IBRD's reports.
February 26, 1971


﻿TABLE 3
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures: 1962-1970
(D'0o)
Estimated                               Total
Maintenance         Investment          Highway
Expenditures!/     Expenditures        Expenditures
1962                2,150              1,394               3,544
1963                2,100              2,527               4,627
1964                2,120                19               2,539
1965                2,070              1,229               3,299
1966                2,000              1,650               3,650
1967                2,050              2,170               4,220
1968                2,000              2,170               4,170
1969                2,000                953               2,953
1970                2,150              2,980               5,130
1/ Including estimated administrative costs attributable to
highway maintenance.
2/ Including Dl million for emergency repair of 1969 flood damage.
Source: SCET-BCEOM "Etude de 'Entretien Routier" October 1970
Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, November 1970
February 26, 1971


﻿TAIE 4
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Improvement Program
A. Sumsary Description. Design Standards and Results
of the Economic Analysis
Present Characteristics        Proposed Design Standards              Lot         Average Daily Traffic    Overall Internal
carriage- number         total    carriage- number              allocation                              Rate of Return
Section                              way        of         roadway     way       of     design        for          Actual   Forecast        lest1lo
wi1th     lanes         width     width    lanes                bidding              (1    980)       estimate estimate-
1. South exit of Tunis
1.1 Expressway south         8.8         5 to 6      2            27       2 x 7     4       120        No. 1
from Tunis
1.2 Connections from        10.1         7 to 5      2            17.5       10.5    3       100        No. 1
expressway to GP1                                                                                          )        23,000   43,000            19%    17%
(Hanan Lif) and GP3                                                                                       )         to       to
)4,000 8,100
1.3 GP1 fro Haman Lif      15.3        1L to 7    2 or 3      --------- same as present ---------      No.3            2
to Borj Cedria                                                                                             )
1.4 M34 from express-      31.4       3.5 to U.5    1            17.5       10.5    3       100        No. 2
way to Turk!                                                                                               )
2. GP1 from Turki to            57.2         5 to 6      2            14          7      2       100        No. 4           3,100    6,650 to         28%    27%
Enfida                                                                                                               to 2,100     4,050
3. Enfida-Kairouan road         h1.2       3.5 to 5    1 or 2         12          6      2       100       No. U               470     950            15%    13%
GP2 from Enfida to PKL2
U. Cap Bon roads
4.1 MC26-MW44 from Borj     25.6       4.5 to 5.5    2            12          6      2       100        No. 3           1,290     2,950 to        18%     17%
Cedria to Korba                                                                                                  to  500      1,050
4.2 M27 from Turki          23.8       4.5 to 6      2         l4 or 12     7 or 6   2       100        No. 3          1,130      2,250           19%     18%
to Nabeul
5. South-West exit of Tunis     26.2       U.5 to 5.5    2            12          6      2       100        No. 2          2,U00      4,150 to        16%     14%
GP3 from expressway to                                                                                              to 1,000      1,750
Cheylus
6. West exit of Tunis
GP5 from Tunis to       16.5       5.5 to 6      2            1L          7      2       100        No. 1          5,300      9,400 to         31%    29%
Monarghia                                                                                                        to 1,400     2,450
B. Cost Estiuates by Lot
Cost Estimates (D'000)
Construction                      Construction             Continaencied!             Total
Lot No.     Length        Period        Right-of-Way       Contracts       Price     Quantity      Total
(k.a)       (Months)
1.         35.4           18              432             3,384           152        338          490      4,306
2.         57.6           15               97             2,952           103         295         398      3,447
3.         84.7           12               33             1,817            54         182          236      2,086
4.         98.4           15               38             2                92         262          354      3.014
TOTAL     276.1                           600            10,775           401       _.077        1,47e     12,853
LOCAL COMPONENT                 600 (100%)      4.5   (45%)                              665      6.115
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT                      525 (55%)                                813
1/ Assuming a 107. reduction in economic benefits due to savings on vehicle operating costs.
2/ Including price escalation during construction (5% p.a. for local component and 7% p.a. for foreign
exchange component), and qoantities overrun and unforeseen (10%).
Source: - SETEC "Modernisation du Reseau Routier" November 1970.
- DPC and mission estimates, November 1970 and April 1971.
May 12, 1971


﻿TUNISIA                                                      T
FTRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Reconstrtion of Brideas and CuLverts
A. SUarv Descrintion and Results of Economic Anal-is
No.      -- IDCATION ----       --- PRESENT STRUCTURE --       ---- PROPOSED NEW STRUCTURE --D 1T                  ECONOMIC
1972       RATE OF
Road        KP        Condition          Total                Type                 Total                 RETURN
LOT # 1 STEEL OR PRESTRESSEp CONCRETE (PC) 9IRDERS ON PHE OUIDATIN
3      GP17        150.6      destroyed          70          PC girders                    120          260       11 %
4      OPT         114.6      destroyed          18          Steel girder                   20          210       37 %
7      OPS          79.3      destroyed          45          PC girders                     99         580        20 %
9      GP17          3.7      obsolete           36          Steel girders                  52          220      13 %
12      MC27         54.4      damaged            52          PC girders                     60          832     >15
15      GP6          39.0      obsolete           40          PC girders                     75        1,260      12.5%
17      GP3         400.5      destroyed          76          PC girders                     81         180       11 %
19      GP          64.3      destroyed          50          PC girders                     70          270       12 %
20      GP5         136.3      destroyed          90          PC girders                     90          440      16  %
LOT # 2 REINFORCED CONCRETE (RC) STRUCTURE ON PILE FOUNDATION
2      GP1         181.5      damaged            12          slabs                          33        1,300       47 %
5      MC35         37.3      destroyed          10          slabs                          33          230       15 %
8      GP17          2.6      destroyed          20          slabs                          33          220       13 %
10      GF17         11.2      destroyed          35          slabs                          48          220      13 %
18      GP          28.1      destroyed          31          slabs                          48          300       12  %
21      GF12        176.1      destroyed          20          slabs                          56          260      12 %
139      GP12        190.1      destroyed          11.5        slabs                          33          310       14 "
1h2      GP1         479        destroyed           8          slabs                          33        1,000       28 %
LOT # 3 RCONSTRUCTION OR WIDENING OF SMALL BRIDGE AND CULVERTS IN RC
(a) Region of Tunis
101      MC33E1        4.0      obsolete            1          double box culvert             10        1,340       12 %
104      MC37         31.3      obsolete            4          double box culvert              7.6        150      13 %
105      MC39E2        1.7      obsolete            4          double box culvert             10          620       29 %
106      MC27        26.0 )                        8          four box culverts              10        2,000       70 %
107      IC27         27.1 )    insufficient        4          slab                           10        2,000      70 %
108      2033         22.1  )   opening             2          frane                          12          460      12 %
121      GP3          65.0 )                      2.5          double box culvert              5          440       22 1
130      RVE635        6.9      obsolete            4          widening                        4          180       20  5
13      MC133        57.7      insufficient        1          double box culvert              4          300       23  5
opening
(b) Reeion of Mateur
117      1C52        27        insufficient        2          double box culvert              5.6        380       18  5
opening
119      GPll         86        obsolete            6          slab                            7          260      13 9
120      GPil         5.7      obsolete            5          double box culvert              7.        150       19 %
122      GPll         95.8 )    .    f     t                   double box culvert              8          260       12 %
123      GPll         98.1 )     n         t                   double box culvert              8          260      13 %
12      Gpl        103.6 )    opening             4          double box culvert              8          260      13 %
136      GP7         129        obsolete            8          double frame                    8          210       11  5
(c) Recion of Tabarka
11      GP17         33.      obsolete           16          box culvert                     2          384       13  5
109      GP17         h0        obsolete           10          double box culvert              7.2        220      13 %
110      GP17         10.2      O.K.                6          repair of culvert and
correction of river bed        6          220       13 %
111      GP17         30.1      obsolete            3          box culvert                     2          381      13 %
112      GP17         46        obsolete            3          widening                        3          130       13 %
113      GP17         49.2      obsolete            2          frame                           6          430       13 %
11-4     GP17         51.5      obsolete            3          box culvert                     2          430       13 %
115      GP17         42        damged            12          frame                          12          130       13  %
118      GP17         60.8      obsolete           10          slab                           10          760      13 %
(d) Reglop of El Kef and Sbeitla
133      GP12         180.     O.K.                6.5        widening                        6.5        310       14 %
137      GFl2         178       O.K.               12          widening                       12          310       26 %
138      GP12         188.1     O.K.               14.7        widening                       14.7       310        2  %
146      GP12         160.9     destroyed          13          slab                           15         130       14 9
117      GP12         170       destroyed           6          slab                           15          170-     1  %
1      GP3          193.9     destroyed          16          ford                                       430     > 17 %
143      GP3E          10       des troyed          7          slab                           lb          200      12 %
144      GP3E          14.1     de troyed           7          slab                           17          200      12 %
115      SF12          95.3     destroyed          12          slab                           14          130       28 %
B. Cost Estimates by Lot
Cost Estimates (sto00)
Lot                                     Number of      Construction           Continencie-            Total
No.                                     Structures      Contracts       Price    Quamtity     Total        -
1.   Bridges - steel or prestressed
concrete girders on piles               9           1,056           95         210         305     1,361
2.   Bridges - concrete slab on piles        8             671          60         134          194       865
3.   Small bridges and culverts             34            484            44         96          140       624
TOTAL COST:                        2,211          199         440         639      2.850
LOCAL C01ONENT                    995 (45%)                            287      1.282
FOREIGN EXCtLkNGE COMPONENT:       1,216 (55%)                            352      1.568
1/ Including price escalatios daring corsvrucir (5% D.a. for local component and 77. for
foreign exchange component), and cuantities overcr and unforeseen 207.,
Source: SCET-BCEOO "Modernisation Ses Ouvrages d Arz du Receau Routier" September 1970
DPC and mission estmates, Novecber '97   -c April 1971.
May 12, 1971


﻿Table 6
TUNI SA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Resurfacing and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
Construction    -          Description of Works                                   Coo  Estimate (D'OOO)
Lot    Region         Period         Location               Scope (km)                      E    eering-        Construction
No.                  (months)      Road   Sect    R          Rehabli-Totl                C    t     Contin-   C    t     Contin-    Total
______  ________   __     F..     facing    tation                      ___        eces       ___ genciesa
1    Sfax              20         GP13     0-165     139        26       165
Sbeitla                      MC81    0-102       86        16       102
GP1    154-281      92         7        99
1   4                       38         4        764        192       998
2    Kairouan          14         GP3     34-216     129        19       1h8
MC99     0-46       38         8        46
167        77       1M                 25         3        509        120       657
3    Beja              14         GP6     42-70       28         -        28
Mc52     0-38       26        12         38
MCS9     0-21       21         -         21
MC63     0-10        8         2         10
MC76     0-8         -         8          8
3         r        107                23         2        455        107      587
4    El Kef            20         GP5    100-160      60         -         60
Jendouba                     GP6    70-136       63         3        66
Kasserine                    GP?   170-186        4       12         16
GP17     0-228     172         8       180
M78     9-14        -         2         2
GPl8    75-104      27         1        28
326       76       32                 39        4         787        197    1,027
5    Gafsa             14         GP3   238-430      187         5       192
Gabes                        GPl5    0-211      209         2       211
GP16     0-30       30         -         30
MC107    0-41       41         -        41
77        -7        W                 24         2        472        111      609
6    Tunis             16         GP7      0-26       25         1        26
Bizerte                      GP8     0-51        51         -        51
Cap Bon                      MC26    9-77        54         -        54
MC27    25-107      46         -         46
MC28    99-125      26         -        26
MC34     0-20       15         5        20
MC35     0-55       54         1         55
MC37     0-37       33         4        37
M039     9-14        -         5          5
mc69     0-20       20         -        20
mc115    0-21       21         -        21
4  1     730                           3        596        143       772
10    Mateur            16         GP11    37-104      28         9        67                43/       4        618        149      814
Beja
Length              k186m      919      Costs:             22
Local Component                 111(50%)  11       1,890(45%) 444      2,456
Foreign exchange component      111(50%) 11        2,311(55%) 575       3,008
1/  PK - kilometric points marking the boundaries of the section.
2/  Mainly soil studies and quantity estimates for rehabilitation works; 10% for contingencies.
5/  For price escalation during construction (5% p.a. for local component and 7% p.a. for foreign
exchange component), and quantity overrun and unforeseen (20%).
4/  Including paving of 14 km which are presently gravelled.
!/  Engineering will include traffic studies for pavement design.
Source: SCET-BCEOM "Etude de 1'Entretien Routier" Catober 1970.
DPC and mission estimates, November 1970.
February 26, 1971


﻿Table 7
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultants' Services for Technical Assistance
and Road Transport Study
Length of services
in Tunisia
(months)
A. Assistance to DPC for reorganization of highway
maintenance:
1 Highway engineer with expertise in
management and programming                             20
1 Cost accounting expert with
administrative experience                              10
B. Assistance to DPC for establishment and staffing
of special unit for supervision of civil works
contracts to be carried out under the project:
2 Senior highway engineers                            4o + 30
1 Surveying engineer                                     30
Temporary advisory services                            15
C. Assistance for improvement of transport coordination
and execution of study of road user taxation and
road transport tariffs:
1 Senior transport economist                             18
1 Specialist in transport finance and
administration                                         12
1 Engineer (highways)                                    12
1 Engineer (railways)                                    12
1 Specialist in transport taxation and tariffs            3
Sdurce: Mission and DPC estimates, November 1970 and April 1971
May 12, 1971


﻿TUNISIA                                             TABLE 8
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Preingestment Studies
A. List of Roads
Road        Section          From             To            Traffic          Length to be considered for possible
KP                                             level               strengthening    widening
ADT                    (k)             (km)
GPI          98-h08       Enfida           Gabes           600 to 2500                310             107
GP5         108-165       Teboursouk       El Kef          400 to 600                  57             -
GP6          42- 92      Bja              Jendouba        500 to  850                 50             10
GP7           0- 21       Tunis            Djedeida        900 to 1700                21                9
GP8           0- 65       Tunis            Bizerte        1200 to 2200                 65              -
(MC31)
MC28        103-116       Hammamet         Kelibia       1000 to 1500                  67             18
MC27         28- 82
MC82          0- 34       Sousse           Moknine        1100 to 3100                34              24
GP11          0- 38       Bizerte          Mateur          600 to 1200                 38             -
Total length:   642             168
B. Cost Estimates
Estimated Scope   Unit Cost    ------ Cost Estimates (DI000) ------
(km)           D/km       Local         Foreign          Total
Phase I      Deflection survey for identi-         642             40        12   (50%)    12   (50%)        24
fication of sections requiring
strengthening
Phase II     Economic feasibility study             400            350       42   (30%)     98  (70%)       140
and preliminary engineering
Phase III    Detailed engineering and               350            900        93  (30%)   211   (70%)       310
bidding documents                                               n57           327               77
Contingencies (about 10%)       15            33                48
Total:      162           360               522
mm            =                ==
Source: - SCET-BCEOM "Etude de 1'Entretien Routier" October 1970.
Mission estimates, November 1970.
May 12, 1971


﻿Table 9
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
-------- (D'000)--------     ------ (US$'000)--------
Highway Construction                             Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
a) Modernization of about 275 km of road         5,4501-   5,925   11,375     10,3801/ 11,290    21,670
b) Reconstruction of 51 bridges and culverts       995     1,216    2,211      1,890     2,320    4,210
c) Resurfacing and rehabilitation of about
1,920 km of paved road                       189       23       4.201     3,60      4.400     8000
sub-total highway construction          8,335     9,452   17,787     15,870    18,010    33,880
Consultants' Services
d) Engineering of rehabilitation works
under c)                                       111       111      222        210       210      420
e) Technical assistance to the DPC for
reorganization of highway maintenance           10        55       65         20       110       130
f) Technical assistance to the DPC for super-
vision of highway construction works under
a) b) and c)                                    29       171      200         60       320      380
g) Preinvestment studies for improvement of
about 350 km of road                           147       327      474        280       620       900
h) Technical assistance for improvement of
transport coordination and study of road
user taxation and road transport tariffs        21       _9A      115         40       180       220
sub-total consultants' services           318       758    1,076        610     1,440    2,050
Procurement
i) Provision for procurement of imported
laboratory equipment and supplies                -        42       42                  80        80
Contingencies
On items a) see Table 4                            665       813    1,478      1,260     1,550     2,810
b) see Table 5                            287       352      639        550       670     1,220
c) see Table 6                            444       575    1,019        850     1,100     1,950
d) to i) about 107                         32        80      112         60       150       210
sub-total contingencies                 1,428     1,820    3,248      2,720     3,470    6,190
TOTAL                                  10.081    12L072              19,200              42,200
Refunding of Loan S2-TUN                                                                   850
23,850
PROPOSED LOAN AMOUNT                 US$24.0 million
1/ Including D600,000 (US$1,143,000 equivalent) for right-of-way acquisition.
Source: DPC and mission estimates November 1970 and April 1971.
May 12, 1971


﻿Table 10
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1971/72
September 30, 1971                                  850
December 31, 1971                                   850
March 31, 1972                                      850
June 30, 1972                                     1,650
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                2,450
December 31, 1972                                 3,900
March 31, 1973                                    5,300
June 30, 1973                                    6,700
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                8,300
December 31, 1973                                10,500
March 31, 1974                                   12,700
June 30, 1974                                    14, 900
1974/75
September 30, 1974                               16,700
December 31, 1974                                18,500
March 31, 1975                                   19,900
June 30, 1975                                    21,200
1975/76
September 30, 1975                               22,300
December 31, 1975                                22,900
March 31, 1976                                   23,500
June 30, 1976                                    24,000
1/ Refunding of Loan S2-TUN
Source: Mission estimates, April 1971
May 12, 1971


﻿ANNEX
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Roads in Highway Improvement Program
Expressway south of Tunis (65.6 km)
1.        The country's most important primary road (GP1) leads south
from Tunis, connecting the capital with important urban centers on the
coast. A number of heavily travelled roads feed into GP1 not far from
Tunis; just outside the capital, where the road crosses crowded suburban
and industrial districts, traffic volumes average over 20,000 vpd. In
order to relieve congestion in this area, the project includes construction
of a four-lane expressway which will bypass the most congested section of
the present road. At Tunis, the expressway will connect with the urban
network through an interchange which forms a part of the urban transport
master plan for the Tunis area. About 10 km from Tunis, the expressway
will divide into two 3-lane highways to Turki and Borj Cedria. The branch
to Turki will follow the alignment of an existing one-lane secondary road
(MC34); the branch to Borj Cedria will be new construction for about 10 km,
meeting the GP1 at Hamman Lif, and improvement of about 15 km of the existing
primary road.
Turki-Enfida road (57.2 km)
2.        This road section, which will connect with the future expressway,
is a heavily travelled section of GP1 running along the coast.
Enfida road toward Kairouan (41.2 km)
3.        The primary road, GP2, branches west at Enfida toward Kairouan,
an important regional center. The road will be improved under the project
only as far as PK42. It then enters the Kairouan plain where it is pe-
riodically washed away by floods in the area; improvement of the road
beyond that point can only be undertaken within the framework of an
appropriate project for the rehabilitation and flood control of the
whole Kairouan plain.
Cap Bon roads (69.4 km)
4.        Two secondary roads, Turki-Nabeul and Borj Cedria-Korba, which
will also link with the future expressway, are to be improved. They
serve the densely populated areas on the Cap Bon Peninsula and the shore
of the Gulf of H1ammamet, one of the most rapidly growing tourist areas.


﻿ANNEX
Page 2
Tunis-Cheylus road (26.2 km)
5.        This section of primary road GP3, which will connect with the
future expressway about 8 km from Tunis, links the capital with the rich
highlands of the Pont du Fahs and its southern hinterland.
Tunis-Monarghia road (16.5 km)
6.        The primary road, GP5, passes through a congested suburban
area west of Tunis. A parallel road will be constructed as far as
Monarghia to increase the capacity of this outlet.
February 26, 1971


﻿TUNISIA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
CABINET      -MINISTE                       -    TCHNCALADVISER
L COUNSEL
PLANNING AND
STANDARDIZATION
CENTRAL      DIRECTORA TES
OTHER DIRECTORATES                      HIGWAYS                              EQUIPMENT
I ~             ~                         I
ORGANIZATION                                          SE
AND METHODS
CENTRAL AND       EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT
MOBILE WORKSHOPS   I  AND INSPECTION
C,ENTR?AL    D I VISIO N S  OF    D  C
------ ------ -------- -   --
ENGINEERING AND                                HIGHWA                                EQPMN
ADMINISTRATION          CONSTRUCTON                 -----           MAINTENANCE      IMA
Psa  ORTHSOUTH
ACCOUNTING            DESIGN                       WETERN                                                   MANAGEMENT
UNIR TC        REGIONAL                       I REGIONAL
BUDGET            SUPERVISION                 I  DivISION                       I  DIVISION        PROCUREMENTS, INVENTORY CONTROL
PERSONNEL                                                                                                COST ACCOUNTING
II1                                         1
ROAD LABORATORY
TRAINING OF PERSONNEL
1    0ISPECTION
15  FIALD     SUBDIVISIO     NS
[ Entity to be reorganized or regrouped
Entity to be estoablished
La- - -                                                                                                     IBRD - 5474(R)


﻿
﻿MAP 1
TUNISIA
d    r r ,4a n e a n  se a                   FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Improvement and Preinvestment Studies
Highway Network and Transportation System
Menzel a  uh       El[MeIb h
Sedienone  P?7   Mateur  Guf  of  Tunis     -          ',1  "3
kP   G e do 5 NbS r  c4 Djeded UN   GPI   _Kehbl  _
o  nrgi                       rF
Djeded. l-~
MceBer9o6  Medje
o  EIBab                                     -
Nef0 - -----
Mmcsroma         hl Bned  Korb
OU ousale                heylus  Tur               .   .jr  1 .a  -  c
S endouba  Tebourso u 1    Zogh uan             -
GhardirruFah                       s                     "     ]
eet  #BotArada             Bou-Ficho
GP-iCM 0                                     2  30-  40ý  5-60-1
o                                         0  2b  30  40  50  6070  80
-36°TdjerouflIneE
~E0RU4R 971                                                                        IRD-330
Koiroucn
- _ se Munine
Sbe,ttia
Kasserine GP 13-9
G,,          GpI14  -1 i
T .merz.  Redeyef                       ¯¯
Gp
----   -÷-                                         G-l - -  Ga e
Ne-t ----_- __--
Gg      To e-  -_----¯_-  ---- -  --¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ - --- -_-m n        ou tS u
Nef ----- --- --------  --- -- - ---------o    e
-        -     Keblao                                  El K-ntlr
- - - - - - - - - - - -  _-.  _                  6     - - - -
Gourasezu
Tatarine
i°Tigemda2
FERUR  197-                                              RBRD..330


﻿
﻿MAP 2
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
-j        -    So O
Reconstruction of Bridges,
Resurfacing and Rehabilitation Works
_ Highway Network and Tronsportation System
M -nze  Bo.gu  - ,r,;,  .,r.  .
S.d enane  Gp7  M  ur7j
-~GP7                Ma     Churi. .~  22 -  .---  r 21, ,-. -  .  y
T A  r136  4     129  15\                   --          U
--......  . -                                . S.N Sir  2c..4 ede.d
11       -                        6r.,  2 '  dr .rd.1  r.,
,Amdoun  rc,[ sr,-r                         -1  - 3 .
A.de   12 119 -4-
p62 VPI                                                14 6  a i a :,. .i .
c3 29Zora               G  mbaa  r u,   r
"1    ou So em 10  c     Cheylu,  Turk  -..
J- ~~~ Grr 9                                u  "  .1 ;.   -  .r-  r.
endub  Teouwuk  I     agh  n.
\_  3ri.uM                1  Pont du Fah  H            -r-j      a..s,F
20              2B..o                         .: A,.  uin..  2  a -
El KefE&
40145              Koroo
ne  6    Sbe  44                                   -
HOf
34,,
1343
Kasserine G913e¯
*     61
Tamerz  Rdeyef-
C Gu/f Yo'f- Gobes,
---- --        --- -  - --- -[                                  ¯~-¯- -Ï ¯ ^À
W o------- -        -   GPH~                                ?U
-  -  - -  -  --_  _- - -rf
- ~        - -       _ - _  _ -  -4                    -  - - - --
FEBRUARY~~G 191IB633
Medenine  o9 '  _
- Be~3ni Khedache---
-~. ... n¯.
-~o -R--LBY
FEBRUARY 1971 IBRD -3306Ri


