FILE COPY
Report No. 1422-SW
Appraisal of the National Industrial
Development Corporation of Swaziland
(NIDCS) and Its Subsidiary, the S-mall Enterprises
Development Company (SEDCO)
April 1, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Industrial Development and Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Emalangeni (E) 1 = Rand (R) I = US$1.15
ABBREVIATIONS
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NIDCS         National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
RSA           Republic of South Africa
SCB           Swaziland Commercial Board
SDSB          Swaziland Development and Savings Bank
SEDCO         Small Enterprises Development Company
SEPO          Small Enterprises Promotion Office
SSE           Small-scale Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
NIDCS    April 1  - March 31
SEDCO    April 1  - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                    i - iii
I.        INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II.       ENVIRONMENT                                                    1
The Economy                                                   1
The Industrial Sector                                         2
Industrial Policies                                           4
The Tourism Sector                                            4
The Financial Environment                                     5
The Role of NIDCS and SEDCO                                   7
III.      THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION                8
OF SWAZILAND (NIDCS)
Act                                                           8
Policies                                                      8
Board and Management                                          9
Organization and Staffing                                    10
Procedures                                                   10
Interest Rates and Other Charges                             11
Audit                                                        11
IV.       NIDCS' OPERATIONS AND FINANCE                                 11
Past Operations                                              11
Portfolio                                                    13
Profitability                                                14
Resources and Financial Situation                             14
V.        THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (SEDCO)             15
Establishment and Articles of Association                    15
Past Operations                                              15
Policies, Procedures and Accounts                            17
Organization, Management and Staff                           18
Financial Performance and Situation                          18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ud by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents                    - 2 -
Page No.
VI.       PROSPECTS                                                      19
Industry and Tourism                                          19
NIDCS' Strategy and Operations                                19
SEDCO's Operations                                            20
Resource Requirements                                         20
NIDCS' Financial Prospects                                    22
SEDCO's Financial Prospects                                   22
VII.      THE LOAN - ITS JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND FEATURES               23
VIII.     RECOMMENDATION                                                 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Tom Tsui, Tei Mante and Christopher Barham which visited Swazi-
land in August, 1976.  The project was prepared by a mission consisting of
Messrs. Philippe Nouvel and Peter Edmonds in August, 1975.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1.   Comparative price Indices and Interest Rates:  Swaziland and South
Africa
NIDCS
2.   Policy Statement
3.   Board of Directors
4.   Organization Chart
5.   Equity and Loan Portfolio
6.   Income Statements 1973-1976
7.   Balance Sheets 1973-1976
8.   Project Possibilities
9.   Assumptions for NIDCS' Financial Projections
10. Projected Operations: 1977-1981
11. Projected Income Statements: 1977-1981
12. Projected Balance Sheets: 1977-1981
13. Projected Resources and Uses: 1977-1981
14.  Financial Ratios:  1973-1981
SEDCO
15. Policy Statement
16. Board of Directors
17. Organization Chart
18.  Income Statements:  1973-1976
19. Balance Sheets: 1973-1976
20.  Consolidated Balance Sheets:  1973-1976
21. Projected Investments and Assumptions for Financial Projections
22. Projected Income Statements: 1977-1981
23. Projected Balance Sheets: 1977-1981
24. Projected Resources and Uses: 1977-1981
25. Projected Cash Flow for Credit Scheme: 1977-1981
26. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for IBRD Loan.






APPRAISAL OF THE
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
SUMIARY
i.        The National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
(NIDCS), a majority Government-owned Corporation, was established in 1971
to promote and assist investment in productive enterprises in Swaziland
through loans, equity investments, guarantees and industrial infrastruc-
ture. As part of a Government program to consolidate institutions for pro-
moting and financing industrial development, NIDCS, in 1976, acquired full
ownership of the Small Enterprises Development Company (SEDCO) established
by the Government in 1970 to promote small-scale enterprises. NIDCS and
SEDCO are the principal institutions in Swaziland for the promotion and
long term financing of industrial development.
ii.       Swaziland, a small well-endowed country, is located between
Mozambique and the RSA. The Swazi economy is characterized by severe
dualism; a modern sector, influenced considerably by foreign controlled en-
terprises operating large mining and agroindustrial projects coexists with
a traditional Swazi rural sector relying extensively on subsistence agri-
culture. The growth performance of the economy has been good (average annu-
al growth of 7 percent of GDP between 1963-1973) and has been largely brought
about by the thriving modern sector. The development challenge lies in sus-
taining this growth rate while reducing the dualism of the economy. In-
dustry is the second most important sector of the economy, and accounts for
about 25 percent of GDP. With a good resource base and generous incentives
from the Government, it has good prospects for increasing its contribution
to the economy. Tourism has also developed as an important new sector,
depending largely on the vast South African market. Although Swaziland
has its own cental bank and currency, it still permits the use of the South
African rand as legal tender, and generally coordinates its monetary poli-
cies with those of the RSA. Financial institutions operating in Swaziland,
in addition to NIDCS and SEDCO, include two commercial banks, a savings
bank and a special Board for financing Swazi commercial enterprises.
iii.      NIDCS has provided financial assistance to a well-diversified
range of manufacturing and processing activities including textiles, milling,
furniture manufacture and packaging. As of June 30, 1976 it had provided
financial assistance totalling E6.6 million for 33 projects. Although
staffing constraints prevented NIDCS from being more active in investment
promotion, it has been able to establish the foundations on which its impact
on future industrial development would depend. SEDCO has concentrated on
developing industial estates on which it provides factory shells to small
Swazi entrepreneurs. It has also provided business training and technical
assistance and limited credit (about EO.1 million as of July 1976) to such
small-scale entrepreneurs. SEDCO's operations have been effective in develop-
ing SSE's in Swaziland.



- ii -
iv.       As of March 31, 1976 NIDCS had a fairly profitable equity portfolio
of E1.0 million and a comparatively less profitable loan portfolio of E2.8
million. It also had substantial investments in factory buildings (E1.8 mil-
lion). Reflecting the relative qualities of the equity and loan portfolios,
however, NIDCS has been deriving its operating income primarily from divi-
dends. Overall, the corporation was profitable in 1974 and 1975. In 1976,
as a result of substantial provisions (about El.O million) against the pos-
sible loss of its equity investment and loan in a textile project, it made
a large loss. This loss did not however adversely affect NIDCS' financial
situation because it was offset by equity contributions from the Govern-
ment. SEDCO was not conceived as a profit making institution, since it pro-
vides free training and technical assistance, factory shells at subsidized
rents, and subsidized credit. The Swaziland Government has therefore been
willingly underwriting its operating losses and resulting cash deficits.
v.        NIDCS has recently acquired a new and suitable management team, has
recruited more professional staff and is improving its operating procedures.
With these improvements in its institutional capacity, it expects to expand
its operations, and has forecast investment approvals averaging E4.7 million
per year over the five year period beginning FY1977. Its strategy is to
promote new industrial activities in Swaziland, in particular medium size
enterprises which are export oriented. The projected level of operations
is well within the capability of NIDCS, and the strategy is appropriately
focussed. SEDCO plans to invest about E1.9 million over the same five year
period on programs of assistance to SSE's. In particular it will increase
its SSE lending to about E200,000 per annum by 1980. Its investment program
is also well conceived. Financial projections for NIDCS show that it will be
profitable and creditworthy during the next 5 years. SEDCO is projected to
continue running operating losses for which it will receive financing from
the Government.
vi.       NIDCS' planned commitments for FY1978 and FY1979 are E8.9 million
of which an estimated E7.1 million would be in foreign currency and for
which it will require new resources. SEDCO's planned investments for the
same two year period amount to E1.1 million out of which EO.27 million
would be for its SSE credit scheme. Since both institutions have important
roles to play in the economic development of Swaziland, and since they have
suitable investment programs for which they require financing, they are worthy
of Bank support. To help meet their foreign resource needs from April 1977
through March 1979, a Bank loan of US$5.0 million to NIDCS is proposed, of
which $4.7 million would be used directly by NIDCS while $0.3 million would be
onlent by NIDCS to SEDCO, at the Bank's interest rate, for a period of 10
years including four years grace. Should SEDCO not require all $0.3 million,
it could agree with NIDCS on the utilization of the remainder by NIDCS. NIDCS
would use the proceeds of its portion of the loan for its investments and
loans to industrial and tourism projects and SEDCO would use its portion for
SSE loans. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
loan, charging a fee of 1% for funds used by NIDCS and without a fee for funds
onlent to SEDCO for SSE's. NIDCS's lending rate would be raised to 12% per
annum plus the fee of 1% for foreign exchange risk coverage. SEDCO would in-
crease its lending rate from 8% per annum to 10% per annum. NIDCS would have



- iii -
an individual free limit of $100,000 and an aggregate free limit of $1.0
million. To permit the Bank to assess the improvements being made to
SEDCO's appraisal of SSE projects, SEDCO will submit the first five such
projects to be financed out of the loan, for prior approval by the Bank.
vii.      Agreement having been reached on all issues, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $5.0 million, to be utilized as outlined above.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
(NIDCS) was established in 1971 as a majority Government-owned statutory
corporation to promote and assist private investment in medium scale pro-
ductive enterprises in Swaziland through subscription of equity investments,
granting of term loans or guarantees, and provision of scarce industrial
facilities. To ensure better coordination of the country's industriali-
zation efforts, the Government also entrusted to NIDCS in 1976 the respon-
sibility for small-scale enterprise development by passing on to NIDCS full
ownership of the Small Enterprises Development Company (SEDCO), a company
established in 1970 for that purpose. The Bank Group has since 1973 been
providing technical assistance to NIDCS through a number of short missions
which made a number of recommendations concerning NIDCS policies, procedures,
organization and staffing. Following a request by the Government for finan-
cial assistance to NIDCS and SEDCO, an appraisal mission visited these in-
situtions in August 1976.
1.02      A Bank loan of US$5.0 million to NIDCS is proposed.  Of this US$4.7
million would be used by NIDCS for financing industrial and tourism projects
whilst US$0.3 million would be used by SEDCO, for lending to SSE's. Should
SEDCO not require all US$0.3 million during the projected commitment period,
the remainder could be utilized by NIDCS upon the agreement of SEDCO. This
report reviews the performance and prospects of NIDCS and SEDCO and specifies
the conditions for the proposed loan.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
The Economy 1/
2.01      The Kingdom of Swaziland is a small landlocked country (17,368 km )
lying between Mozambique and the Republic of South Africa. Its population
is estimated at 525,000 in 1976, with a growth rate of 3.2 percent per annum,
and its per capita GNP (1975) at US$470. Swaziland is well endowed with
natural resources; variations in soil types and climatic conditions make for
a diversified agricultural base. It has significant deposits of coal and iron
ore and lesser quantities of asbestos, and its pleasant temperate climate and
other physical characteristics are favorable for the development of tourism.
The Swazi economy is characterized by severe dualism. A modern sector, in-
fluenced considerably by foreign controlled enterprises, and consisting of a
small number of enterprises engaged in large-scale production of asbestos,
iron ore and coal; large sugar, citrus and pineapple plantations; and large-
scale processing and manufacturing of sugar, wood pulp and canned fruit,
account for over 80% of the domestic product and wage employment. Coexisting
with this is the traditional Swazi rural sector, consisting principally of
subsistence cultivation of maize, groundnuts and sorghum. This rural sector
1/    For detailed information on the Economy of Swaziland refer to "Economic
Memorandum of Swaziland" (Report No. 852a-SW, dated November 24, 1975).



- 2 -
provides the livelihood for about 50 percent of the population and accounts
for about 14 percent of GDP.
2.02      Swaziland cooperates with the Republic of South Africa, Botswana
and Lesotho in the Southern Africa Customs Union and, although it has its
own currency, the emalangeni (E) which has the same par value as the rand,
it belongs to the Rand Monetary Area and the rand is still used as legal
tender in addition to the emalangeni. Under a special monetary agreement
with the RSA, the emalangeni is backed by a special rand deposit with the
South African Reserve Bank. Swaziland has developed other close economic
links with the Republic of South Africa.  About 90 percent of its imports
originate in, or pass through the RSA, about 25 percent of its merchandise
exports are absorbed by the RSA, and over 60 percent of total hotel visitors
come from the RSA. About one half of the Swaziland Government's revenue is
also derived from the Customs Union.
2.03      The performance of the Swazi economy has been satisfactory, with
the modern sector propelling it to an average annual GDP growth rate of 7 per-
cent between 1963-1973. Although projections to 1981 show that output growth,
to be generated mainly from increased production by the large scale enter-
prises in agriculture and in related manufacturing, will be as satisfactory
as in the past, dualism will continue to remain a challenge to the develop-
ment of the economy. It is the Government's policy to eliminate this dualism;
its development strategy, as elaborated in the second National Development
Plan (1973-1977), therefore has as its main objectives: (a) the preservation
of the conditions for sustained growth of the private modern sector while
achieving a greater degree of Swazi involvement in this sector; (b) the
acceleration of the transition from subsistence agriculture to cash crop
production so as to increase the incomes of rural Swazis; (c) improvement of
the relevance and usefulness of education; and (d) the provision of housing
and health facilities for low income families in urban and rural areas.
2.04      Price movements in Swaziland are generally subject to the same
influences that affect price changes in the RSA, because of the close eco-
nomic ties between the two countries. As shown in Annex 1, the South Afri-
can wholesale price index increased by 8% in 1972, 13% in 1973, 17.9% in 1974
and 17.2% in 1975, and retail prices in Swaziland climbed at roughly the same
rates. The large price increases experienced in 1974 and 1975 were mainly
due to the effects of the international increases in oil prices and the sub-
sequent devaluation of the rand in 1975. Although future price movements
are difficult to estimate, it is expected that the rate of inflation in Swa-
ziland will decline below 12% in the next few years.
The Induistrial Sector
2.05      After agriculture which accounts for an estimated 35 percent of
GDP, industry is the most important sector of the Swazi economy, accounting
for about 25 percent of GDP. It provides 17 percent of wage employment in
the modern sector and 70 percent of merchandise exports. The sector con-
sists mainly of large and modern mining enterprises and large manufacturing
enterprises processing agricultural and forestry products.



- 3 -
2.06      Mining.  This sector consists of enterprises producing asbestos,
iron ore and coal, and was until 1969 the major contributor to the indus-
trial product. In recent years, as a result of increased manufacturing, its
contribution has declined to about 32 percent of value added in industry (8
percent of GDP), accounting for about 5 percent of modern sector wage employ-
ment and about 20 percent of merchandise exports. Current production of
asbestos is estimated at 35 million tons per year, with good prospects for
maintenance of this level through the 1980's. Iron ore has been mined at
an average annual rate of 2.2 million tons and exported almost exclusively
to Japan. Coal production is still on a small-scale since the market still
needs to be developed.
2.07      Manufacturing.  Manufacturing contributes the bulk of value added
in the industrial sector, accounting for about 15 percent of GDP and about
12 percent of total wage employment in Swaziland. The development of manu-
facturing has been based mainly on large scale processing of the agricultural
and forestry output of the country. The sector is thus dominated by a small
number of agro-industries (sugar milling, manufacture of wood pulp and sawn
timber, citrus canning, and meat processing) which together account for 90
percent of value added in total manufacturing. The latest survey 1/ (1973)
of manufacturing enterprises, shows the following sectoral breakdown.
Number of                    Value Added
Establishments         Amount (E mil.)        Percent
Food and Beverages                    14                      6.8              31.6
Wood and Wood Products                  7                     0.7               3.3
Paper and Paper Products               4                     12.9              60.0
Clothing, Textiles                     6                      0.6               2.8
Other Mlanufacturing                   8                      0.5               2.3
39                    21.5             100.0
2.08      The main constraint to the balanced development of manufacturing is
the shortage of Swazi entrepreneurs and managers. Although this has not
seriously hindered the establishment and growth of enterprises, since Swazi-
land has been able to attract considerable foreign investment, it has led
to the aggravation of the dualism of the economy as new enterprises have had
to be established and operated largely by foreigners.
1/   Source:  Economic Planning Office.



-4-
Industrial Policies
13b_,in9  The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to promote
rapid industrial growth in order to raise domestic incomes and employment and
to promote the development of local enterprise and management. Recognizing
the role that direct foreign investment has played in providing the capital
and technical knowledge on which past industrial development has depended,
the Government continues to encourage foreign investment and rightly provides
wide ranging incentives to attract new foreign investors and help existing
enterprises expand. In keeping with its objective of developing local enter-
Dr-Ie and management it also provides free training and technical assistance,
?nc.ustrial estates, and credit on concessionary terms to small Swazi-owned
enterDrises.
.liO    The Government's incentives package has been appropriately designed
to sustain the free enterprise environment it considers suitable both for the
attraction and development of foreign investment and for the development of
Swazi enterprises. It permits, within some limitations set by national
security considerations, enterprises to be established without licensing,
and also permits free transfer of loans and share capital in and out of the
country subject only to a small withholding tax on dividends and interest.
Although the Government reserves the right to determine what could be imported
into Swaziland, it has not restricted imports of machinery and raw materials,
and even provides duty rebates on such imports, in cases where it considers
comxron external tariff in the customs area too high.  Manufacturing
ente-prises in pioneer industries are taxed at a concessionary rate, and
,1' i.dustrial enterprises could claim capital and investment allowances up
5t percent of the cost of buildings, plant and machinery, during their
first year of operation. The effect of this allowance is to reduce the
t-xahle profits of such enterprises, or to enable them to accumulate losses
wnli^h could be carried forward indefinitely against future profits, for tax
,fnrposes. Another incentive which serves to reduce the tax liability of
enterprises while encouraging them to train Swazis is the double deduction
against income, permitted for expenses incurred for the training of Swazis.
These incentives are appropriate and have contributed to the development
of the industrial sector.
The Tourism Sector
.il     Tourism has since 1970 become one of the most dynamic sectors of
the Swazi economy, with the number of tourists increasing from an estimated
43,000 in 1969 to about 89,000 in 1973. It is estimated that in 1973 it
provided direct employment of about 1,500 or 13 percent of employment in
-rvires. This significant development in tourism has been based largely
on the South African market.  To diversify tourist attractions and reduce
the dependence of the sector on one market, the Government has established
the Swaziland Tourism Development Board to formulate and implement a devel-
opment policy for the sector.



-5-
The Financial Environment
2.12      There are a number of financial institutions in Swaziland.  In
addition to the central bank and two commercial banks, there are two spe-
cialized financial institutions other than NIDCS and SEDCO, an insurance
company, a National Provident Fund and a special Swazi Nation Fund.
2.13      The Central Bank.  Although still a member of the Rand Monetary
Area, Swaziland has had its own Monetary Authority since 1974. However,
because of the special monetary agreement (para 2.02) with the RSA, this
Monetary Authority does not have full independence for credit management,
and has to rely at times on policies set by the South African Reserve
Bank. It has however managed to institute a relatively independent in-
terest rate policy, setting recent interest rates at a lower level than
that existing in South Africa to reflect the different credit and liquidity
situation in Swaziland. It has also assumed responsibility for the issue
of Government bonds and treasury bills, although it has no facilities yet
for discounting commercial paper.
2.14      Commercial Banks.  The two commercial banks operating in Swazi-
land are Barclays Bank and Standard Bank both of which were incorporated
locally in 1974 each with 40 percent Government shareholding. These banks
have been able to mobilize considerable local resources, the bulk of which
have been lent on an overdraft basis to the agricultural and forestry sec-
tors to finance the production and marketing of crops like sugar and cotton
and the production of wood pulp and sawn timber. Because of the seasonality
of these crops, the liquidity of these banks fluctuates, enabling them in
periods of excess liquidity to invest large sums of money in the RSA. To
date, these two banks have only provided short-term overdraft facilities to
manufacturing enterprises for financing their working capital requirements.
With their incorporation locally, the two banks are now subject to the
local requirements for minimum capital and liquid assets and to Government
supervision through the Monetary Authority. This supervision will enable
the Government to more effectively control their lending activities and
especially assist them in channelling more short term funds to industrial
development.
2.15      Specialized Financial Insitutions.  In addition to NIDCS and SEDCO,
there are two specialized financial institutions in Swaziland. These are the
Swaziland Development and Savings Bank (SDSB) and the Swaziland Commercial
Board (SCB).
2.16      The Swaziland Development and Savings Bank is a statutory corpor-
ation which was established in 1965 to help meet the financial needs of Swazis
in agriculture, housing and business (primarily commerce). SDSB has an auth-
orized capital of E5 million of which E3 million had been paid in as of June
30, 1976. The Government is the majority shareholder, and the U.K. Govern-
ment and USAID the minority shareholders. In addition to its share capital
SDSB has raised its resources through substantial savings, term and call
deposits from the public, and government borrowings. As of June 30, 1976,



-6-
its resources consisted of deposits amounting to E15.3 million, long term
loans of E1.0 million from the U.K. Government and USAID, and short and medium
term loans of E2.3 million from the Swaziland Government and the Monetary
Authority. SDSB has used these resources mainly to provide loans. As of
June 30, 1976, it had loans outstanding of El1.5 million, long term invest-
ments of E1.2 million, liquid assets of E8.3 million (mostly in money at
call and short notice) and fixed assets of E1.2 million. SDSB has thus been
effective in mobilizing local resources for lending. An analysis of the
distribution of SDSB's lending shows that 37 percent has gone to agriculture,
30 percent to business (primarily commerce), 23 percent for housing and 10
percent for hire purchase and other miscellaneous activities. In agricul-
ture SDSB has lent for up to 10 years for irrigation projects, five years
for tractors and other mechanical equipment, and up to 20 years for purchase
of farms by Swazis. It has also provided a good deal of small seasonal crop
loans. Its limited lending to manufacturing has been concentrated on small
Swazi manufacturers sponsored by SEDCO, and although SDSB is willing to
consider some long term lending to large-scale manufacturing and tourism
projects, it considers those sectors to be NIDCS' primary concern.
2.17      The Swaziland Commercial Board was established in 1975 as a statu-
tory corporation with an authorized share capital of E3 million to help
Swazis set up and expand commercial enterprises. El million of the authorized
capital has so far been paid in. SCB assists Swazi wholesalers and retailers
with loans and equity. Its loans to the commercial sector have ranged from
E20,000 to E40,000 and the average maturity has been five years. SCB has
not been in operation long enough for its role and effectiveness to be ade-
quately assessed.
2.18      Other financial institutions are the Swaziland Royal Insurance
Corporation which was established in 1974 with 51 percent Government owner-
ship and was given a monopoly of the insurance business in Swaziland, and
the Swazi Nation Fund, a national institution which accumulates substantial
funds from sugar and other mineral royalties on behalf of Swazis and invests
these in various projects (industrial, commercial, etc.) in the country in
trust for the people. The Government has also recently set up a National
Provident Fund, which will initially cover all salaried employees in Swazi-
land. This fund is yet to start operations.
2.19      Interest Rates.  Because pronounced divergencies in monetary con-
ditions between Swaziland and South Africa could stimulate undesirable flows
of funds into or out of Swaziland, Swazi interest rate levels conform broadly
to those prevailing in South Africa. Thus, although the Monetary Authority
aims at maintaining rates at levels conducive to encouraging the growth of
savings and investments within the Swazi economy, it takes account of the
situation in the RSA in setting these rates which have recently been, on
average, about 1.0% lower than in the RSA (see Annex 1). Deposit rates in
Swaziland now range from 4 percent for savings deposits to 9 percent for
12 months deposits, with varying rates in between for call money, and de-
posits for different time periods up to 12 months. Lending rates in June
1976 ranged from a low of 6 percent charged by SDSB to small agricultural



- 7 -
borrowers to 13 percent charged by SCB for all its loans. SDSB charges 10
percent to big agricultural borrowers, 11 percent to small manufacturers
and 12 percent to the transport sector. The commercial banks have been
lending at an average rate of 11.5 percent. Given Swaziland's recent high
level of inflation (paragraph 2.04), these interest rates have not been
positive in real terms. As shown in Annex 1, however, they have been
sufficiently competitive to discourage significant outflows of private
sector funds to South Africa.
The Role of NIDCS and SEDCO
2.20      With the commercial banks lending mainly on a short term basis for
agriculture, SDSB mainly on a long term basis to agriculture and SCB speci-
fically assigned to lending to Swazi-owned commercial enterprises, there
exists a gap in the long-term financing of industrial and tourism projects.
It is to fill this gap that NIDCS and SEDCO were created by the Government.
The role of NIDCS as a financial institution is mainly to promote and assist
medium scale industrial and tourism projects through the provision of equity
and long term funds. Because of the critical shortage of Swazi entrepre-
neurs capable of establishing medium and large manufacturing enterprises,
NIDCS must play a major role in the preparation and establishment of proj-
ects in association with foreign investors whenever necessary and feasible.
NIDCS may also take majority shareholding in enterprises and even manage
enterprises during the crucial start-up period or where the projects con-
cerned are of importance to the economy. SEDCO concentrates on providing
financial and technical assistance to small Swazi manufacturers, and thus
complements NIDCS in the development of the manufacturing sector, with
particular emphasis on the promotion of local entrepreneurship.
2.21      The multiplicity of development financing institutions in Swazi-
land has not resulted in a duplication of roles and activities. Neverthe-
less, because of the scarcity of trained managers in Swaziland and the size
and character of its economy, such multiplicity has led, at times, to in-
efficient allocation of manpower resources. On the recommendations of the
Bank that the institutional framework could be streamlined to avoid such
inefficiencies, the Government decided in January 1976 that NIDCS and
SEDCO should be merged into one institution. Because of the non-profit and
service orientation of SEDCO's activities, and to permit it to continue
attracting aid funds on concessionary terms, however, it has been neces-
sary for it to maintain a separate identity, and complete merger has not
been possible. NIDCS has therefore acquired SEDCO as a wholly owned sub-
sidiary, and shares common facilities with it whenever feasible, (e.g., for
finance and accounting, legal and administration, and project appraisal)
although the two institutions still retain their separate identities.



- 8 -
III. THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
OF SWAZILAND (NIDCS)
Act
3.01      NIDCS was established as a statutory corporation in 1971 under the
NIDCS Act to promote and assist private investment in industrial, commercial,
agricultural and mining enterprises in Swaziland, through subscription to
equity investments, granting of term loans or guarantees, and provision of
scarce factory buildings. The Corporation commenced operations in August,
J.02      NIDCS has an authorized share capital of E10.0 million consisting
of 100,000 ordinary A shares (100 votes each) issuable only to the Government
and 9,900,000 ordinary B shares (one vote each) which have no issuance re-
strictions. As of March, 1976 the issued share capital was E2,052,883; the
Government is the majority shareholder with 95% voting control having sub-
scribed to and paid for 15,000 A shares and 1,937,883 B shares; Barclays
Bank (Swaziland) and Standard Bank (Swaziland) the minority shareholders
hold 50,000 B shares each.
3.03      In addition to the share voting control, a number of provisions
nf the Act enable the Government to hold substantial control over NIDCS in
other ways. The Minister of Industry, Tourism, and Mines can appoint up to
fivp Board Directors and, from among them, the Chairman; he also must approve
the appointment of the Managing Director by the Board. The Act empowers the
same Minister to override any Board approval he deems necessary. In practice,
;iowever, the Government is keen to have NIDCS operate independently, and has
refrained from undue interference in its operations. The Act exempts NIDCS
from payment of income and other transfer taxes on its profits and capital.
Policies
3.04      NIDCS' operations are governed by its Policy Statement (Annex 2)
which covers, inter alia, the following areas:
(i) Area of Operation. The Policy Statement opens the area
of tourism project financing for the Corporation, since
the role of the Government-owned agency for tourism de-
velopment, the Swaziland Tourism Development Board, is
in practice limited to tourism promotion and consequently
there is no institution to finance the sector. The
policy statement also excludes the financing of commer-
cial enterprises from NIDCS' areas of activity because
funds for such activities are obtainable from other
financial institutions.
(ii) Financing Criteria. NIDCS is restricted to financing
projects which are financially viable, technically
feasible, meet certain economic criteria, and have
good management.



(iii)   Limits on Financial Commitments.  The statement sets
prudent limits on NIDCS' financial commitments. For
example, to ensure that others also join in sharing
project risks, NIDCS' investment to any project is
limited to 60% of the project's total capital cost,
including buildings and permanent working capital.
NIDCS would normally not provide more than 35% of its
own net worth in the form of loans, equity, guarantees
and buildings to any one project. Also, to delineate
the financing roles between NIDCS and SEDCO, projects
with total capital costs under E50,000 will normally
be handled by SEDCO.
(iv)  Foreign Exchange Risk.  The policy precludes NIDCS from
assuming foreign exchange risks on its foreign borrow-
ings.
(v)  Debt-equity Limitation.  To prevent NIDCS from borrow-
ing excessively, a prudent debt equity limit of three
to one is included in the policy statement.
(vi)  Staff Localization.  While acknowledging the scarcity of
qualified Swazis to staff the Corporation at this time,
this part of the policy states NIDCS' intention to lo-
calize its staff as soon as possible by having expatriate
officers assume training, as well as operating responsi-
bilities.
Board and Management
3.05      NIDCS' Board may comprise up to nine members.  It presently con-
sists of seven members, five of whom were appointed by the Government (para
3.03) and the rest by the private shareholders. Annex 3 shows a list of
the current Directors who include the Managing Director; the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning; a Swazi businessman; represen-
tatives of Standard and Barclays Bank; and the former Managing Director
of NIDCS, an expatriate seconded by UNIDO. The Board has been meeting
monthly or bi-monthly depending on the requirements of the Corporation's
activities. The Chairman, appointed recently to replace the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Industry, brings to the Board considerable
knowledge and experience earned through many years as a private businessman.
His appointment, coupled with a proposed appointment of another member with
financial expertise, would greatly enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
3.06      Since January 1977, NIDCS has been managed, for the first time
since its inception, by a Swazi Managing Director who was previously the
undersecretary of the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Mines, and had also
been acting as the Chairman of NIDCS' Board. He thus brings extensive
knowledge of the industrial, tourism and mining sectors, as well as direct



- 10 -
knowledge of NIDCS to the job. To facilitate a smooth transfer of respon-
sibilities, however, his predecessor is staying on till May 1977 as an
advisor. In addition, NIDCS has since February 1977, had an expatriate
Chief of Operations, whose previous experience include working as the chief
executive of a development finance company. He is responsible to the new
Managing Director for the general management of the Corporation. This new
management team is well balanced, and should provide the corporation with
suitable leadership. Nevertheless, in the event of management changes,
NIDCS has agreed to consult with the Bank on future appointments to the
positions of Managing Director and Chief of Operations.
Organization and Staffing
3.07      NIDCS has a simple organization (Annex 4) which clearly assigns
responsibilities for the three aspects of its project work - preparation,
appraisal and supervision - to three divisions reporting to the Chief of
Operations. There are four support departments for Administration, Legal
work, Finance and Accounting, and Property and Buildings supervision, all
reporting directly to the Managing Director. In keeping with the objec-
tives which prompted the acquisition of SEDCO, the Administration, Legal,
Financing and Accounting Departments, and the Project Appraisal division
provide services in their respective fields to SEDCO. This organizational
arrangement permits efficient use of scarce staff by both NIDCS and SEDCO.
3.08      Until early 1976, NIDCS' staff was small and almost all expatri-
ates, due to the critical shortage of suitably trained Swazi professionals.
Recently NIDCS has made special efforts to enlarge and strengthen its pro-
fessional staff which has grown from six to sixteen (of which nine are
Swazis). Expatriates still occupy the key positions of Chief of Operations,
Financial Controller, and Legal Advisor. The Corporation, however, has a
satisfactory training program, and its recent efforts to localize its staff
have been successful.
Procedures
3.09      When it was a small understaffed institution, NIDCS operated with
very informal internal procedures. Although it had a suitable project
appraisal manual, the procedures and techniques set out in this manual were
rarely followed; hence, the quality of its appraisals were generally low.
Because the Legal Advisor had to act as Financial Controller for a time,
legal documentation on some of NIDCS investments were not completed before
disbursements were made. There were no guidelines for supervision of approved
projects, with the result that some projects developed problems which could
have been prevented if their progress had been more systematically monitored.
Its accounting system and disbursement procedures were also never clearly
documented, leading to some inconsistencies in financial reporting from year
to year.
3.10      With the growth in its staff size and increasing levels of oper-
ations, NIDCS has now introduced formal procedures in all facets of its



- 11 -
operations. The appraisal of projects will now include analysis of their
financial, economic and technical aspects. A supervision manual has been
prepared which should provide for close monitoring of project implementation
and follow up. A new financial control manual, which sets out in detail
the accounting system for NIDCS and SEDCO and details the disbursement
arrangements has been prepared. All legal agreements on investments have
been finalized, and in the future no disbursements will take place without
finalization of legal agreements. It is expected that this formalization
of procedures will minimize future operational problems.
Interest Rates and Other Charges
3.11      Loans approved to date have carried interest rates between 10.0% -
11.0%. Although these rates have not been positive in real terms since
1973, given Swaziland's experience with inflation between 1973-76, they
have provided NIDCS with an adequate spread, given its cost of borrowing,
and they are in line with the general structure of interest rates in Swa-
ziland (para 2.19). For the future, NIDCS has agreed to charge a uniform
rate of 12.0% p.a. on all loans. This should be positive in real terms, as
the rate of inflation in Swaziland is expected to decline below 12 percent.
It will also charge a fee of 1% on all loans to enable it to pay the Gov-
ernment's fee for coverage of the foreign exchange risk. NIDCS leases out
factory buildings at rates of 13 percent per annum of the development costs.
This rate generates enough income to cover the capital costs, insurance and
maintenance of the buildings and provide NIDCS with a reasonable return on
its investment. It is reviewed annually or biennially to take account of
inflation and increases in maintenance costs.
Audit
3.12      As the NIDCS Act requires two auditors for NIDCS (one appointed
by the Government and the other by the private shareholders), Coopers and
Lybrand and another firm, Alex Aiken and Carter, cooperate in undertaking
annual audits as well as in providing assistance to NIDCS' accounting staff.
Past audits have been satisfactory, but have not included the supplementary
data on operations (outstanding loans, equity investments and guarantees, and
a schedule of arrears in excess of 3 months) that the Bank Group requires
DFCs to include as part of their audited accounts. NIDCS has agreed that
its future audited accounts will include these statements, which are now
available separately.
IV. NIDCS' OPERATIONS AND FINANCE
Past Operations
4.01      Summarized below are NIDCS' investment approvals since its es-
tablishment through June 30, 1976.



- 12 -
Number                Amount           % of Total
Approved            (E millions)           Amount
Equity Investments             18                    1.2                 18
Loans                          15                    2.9                 44
Factory Buildings              18                    2.1                 32
Guarantees                      3                    0.4                  6
54                    6.6                100
The fifty-four operations approved by NIDCS relate to thirty-three projects
only; as a result NIDCS' involvement in some projects has been very substan-
tial.  In the future, the agreed limitation of NIDCS' financial assistance
to 60% of project costs (para 3.04) will prevent the recurrence of such
cases. Considering the favorable investment climate in Swaziland and the
fact that by June 30, 1976, NIDCS had been in operation for five years,
this level of approvals is rather low. It is a direct consequence of the
limitations which the problems of management instability (during its first
two years of existence NIDCS had three managing directors, each staying for
an average of 6 months) and shortage of professional staff imposed on NIDCS.
These limitations prevented NIDCS from actively identifying and promoting new
projects and reduced its impact on the development of the industrial sector,
since NIDCS only financed proposals submitted by either the Government or
private foreign investors.
4.02      The majority of the projects NIDCS has assisted are engaged in
manufacturing or processing activities. These are well diversified and
include projects for textile manufacturing, maize milling, manufacture of
animal feed, and wooden furniture manufacture. NIDCS has not assisted any
of the large sugar processing, fruit canning, or pulp and paper projects
which contribute the bulk of value added in manufacturing, because the
size of these projects exceeded those of NIDCS' normal range of clients
and because other sources of financing have been available to these pros-
perous enterprises. Before SDSB was established, NIDCS also assisted some
wholesaling, retailing and commercial real estate projects.
4.03      Equity Investments.  Among the eighteen equity investments
approved to date by NIDCS, the largest single investment (E500,000) was
made in a maize milling and general trading enterprise. Excluding seven
token investments of E20 or less, NIDCS' average equity investment has
been about E50,000. Fifteen of the 18 companies assisted with equity in-
vestments were still in operation; two have ceased operations and one pro-
ject was never implemented. NIDCS has a controlling interest and/or man-
agement responsibility in five out of these fifteen companies. In addi-
tion, NIDCS serves on the Boards of most of its minority owned companies,
to protect its investments.



- 13 -
4.04      Loans.  The 15 loans approved to date relate to 14 projects; NIDCS
also has equity investments in nine of these projects. The largest loan (E1.0
million) was made to a textile project (para 4.06) and the smallest loan was
for E7,000 to a commercial radio station. Because of the wide range between
the largest and smallest loans approved, the mean loan size is E194,000 com-
pared to a median of only E46,000. Nearly all loans were made to companies
already in operation which needed funds for expansion or for revamping opera-
tions. In a number of cases NIDCS' loans have been used to refinance other
loans, or to finance working capital requirements. NIDCS has agreed that in
the future its assistance will be concentrated on new or expansion projects
requiring capital expenditures and a clause preventing NIDCS from normally
re-financing projects has been included in its policy statement. Repayment
terms on NIDCS' loans have ranged from three to ten years.
4.05      Factory Buildings.  To attract foreign investors who might other-
wise be deterred by the difficulties the land tenure laws in Swaziland pose
for foreign ownership of land, NIDCS which has easier access to land, builds
factories for lease to companies. The 18 existing factories it had built by
June 30, 1976 are rented to companies operating in fields ranging from plas-
tics and furniture manufacture to production of cattle feed. This type of
operation is consistent with NIDCS' role as a promoter of industrial develop-
ment in Swaziland, and it does not necessarily increase NIDCS' total finan-
cial exposure in projects since the funds utilized for buildings might other-
wise be provided to the same projects as loans or equity. NIDCS has agreed
that applications for factory buildings will be appraised as thoroughly as
applications for loans and equity investments.
Portfolio
4.06      Annex 5 shows NIDCS' outstanding equity and loan portfolio as at
31st March 1976. The equity portfolio consisted of outstanding investments
of E1.0 million in fifteen companies, eleven of which were in commercial
operation. The overall quality of the portfolio is good, with nine out of
the eleven operating companies (equal to 85 percent of the equity portfolio)
operating profitability. Three of the four projects not in operation were
new projects under construction, but the fourth project has gone into liquida-
tion. NIDCS has an equity investment of E50,000 in this project, which
consisted of regrouping in Swaziland several departments of a textile enter-
prise operating in the Republic of South Africa. NIDCS did make full pro-
visions against this investment in its 1976 accounts and has now written it
off. The loan portfolio of E2.8 million consisted of loans to twelve com-
panies, seven of which were in operation. Compared to the equity portfolio,
the loan portfolio is of a poorer quality with four of the operating com-
panies, accounting for only 38 percent of the outstanding amount, operating
profitably. Three of the non-operating companies were new projects under
construction, and the remaining two which accounted for 38 percent of the
outstanding portfolio were in liquidation. One of them is the above mentioned
textile company in which NIDCS has an equity investment of E50,000 and a loan
outstanding of about EL.0 million. NIDCS did make full provisions against
this loan, and has written it off together with the equity investment. The



- 14 -
second company in liquidation was involved in the manufacture of chemicals;
although NIDCS has provided fully against this loan (E67,000), it hopes to
recover the loan from litigation which is still in progress.  In addition
to these two companies, one company in which NIDCS had a loan of E256,250
outstanding was defaulting on interest payments. None of the loans had
recqc'Ld natlirity on principal payments and as such there were no arrears on
s;uch payments. NIDCS has assumed management of the three companies making
losses, and is making every effort to turn them around. NIDCS' portfolio
of 18 factory buildings valued at E1.8 million as of March, 1976 is of
generally good quality; the buildings are located at convenient and well-
s.erviced sites.
fit_abili:'L
4.07      NIDCS' income statements for 1973 to 1976 are summarized in Annex
6. Reflecting the re'lative qualities of its equity and loan portfolios,
dividends irom equity investments have been the major item of income, account-
ing for an average of 52 percent of total income over 1974-1976. These
dividends have been paid largely by two companies - a milling company in
which NIDCS has an investment of E500,000 and earned dividends of E200,000
in 1976, and its trading subsidiary in which NIDCS has a token investment
but from which it received a dividend of E45,000 in 1976.  These companies
which belong to a well-known Swazi group of companies called Kirsh Indus-
tries Ltd., were partly sold to NIDCS with the approval of the Government.
Since 1974, NIDCS has generated enough income from financial operations
to cover interest charges which are its principal expense item, and its
administrative expenses. In 1974 and 1975 it made net profits of 12.7 percent
and 6.8 percent respectively on its average equity, but in 1976, as a result
of a substantial provision of E1.3 million most of which was for the potential
loss of its investment in the textile project now under liquidation, it
made a net loss of E1.1 million.
R.es O Li-rces and Financial Situation
4.08      Through March 31, 1976, NIDCS had raised resources of E6.0 million
consisting of E2.1 million in share capital (of which 95% from Government);
E0.3 million in grants from the Government; and E3.6 million in long term
loans. The long term loans consisted of E2.3 million of unsecured loans
from the Swaziland Government lf, bills payable of EO.9 million from Kirsh
Holdings, Ltd., and EO.4 million from the Standard Bank of Swaziland Ltd.
The Government has thus provided 77% of the resources of NIDCS.
INICS' summarized balance sheets for FY 1973-1976 are shown in
AnuWsN  e as at March 31, 1976, NIDCS had a net worth (including Government
1/   Terms of up to 24 years (with 2-5 years grace) at 7.5-10.0% p.a.



- 15 -
grants) of E1.1 million and term debts of E2.9 million, giving it an accept-
able long term debt to equity ratio of 2.6:1. The paid-in share capital of
E2.1 million had been reduced to E0.8 million by accumulated losses result-
ing mainly from the loss of E1.1 million in the textile project (para 4.06).
NIDCS was temporarily in a tight liquidity situation with current liabili-
ties exceeding its current assets by RO.2 million; its gross loan and equity
portfolio of E3.8 million had been written down to E2.4 million by setting
provisions conservatively at E1.4 million. It also had fixed assets (mainly
factory buildings) of E1.8 million. Since March 31, 1976, NIDCS has received
about E1.0 million in cash from the Government as equity contributions. This
has offset the loss incurred in the textile project and has improved NIDCS'
liquidity. In addition, the Government has converted about E2.0 million of
its loans to NIDCS into equity. Consequently, NIDCS' equity is now about
E4.0 million and its debt equity ratio has been reduced to below 2:1.
V. THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (SEDCO)
Establishment and Articles of Association
5.01      SEDCO was established in 1970 to promote the development of small-
scale enterprises through: (a) provision of working premises for entrepre-
neurs; (b) provision of machinery and equipment to such entrepreneurs under
lease or purchase arrangements; (c) procurement of raw materials in bulk
for small enterprises and marketing of the products of such enterprises; and
(d) provision of short- and long-term credit to small entrepreneurs. How-
ever, SEDCO did not start operating before 1972 when UNDP agreed with the
Government on a small scale enterprise development project. SEDCO thus
started operations as a component of the UNDP project which, in addition to
SEDCO, also involved the creation of a Small Enterprises Promotion Office
(SEPO) under the Ministry of Industry, to provide managerial, technical,
extension and training services for small entrepreneurs. Since their
activities were highly complementary, SEDCO and SEPO operated in practice
as one institution and had the same Chief Executive. Before NIDCS acquired
SEDCO in November 1976, the Government dissolved SEPO and transferred its
activities to SEDCO.
5.02      SEDCO's Articles of Association set its authorized share capital at
only E 5,000 of which nearly half has been issued to NIDCS. SEDCO does not
need a large equity base since it is a non profit-oriented institution, to be
financed mainly with grants. It enjoys the same tax exemption privileges as
NIDCS.
Past Operations
5.03      Industrial Estates.  SEDCO has established eight small industrial
estates, geographically spread across the country, on which a total of 65
Swazi entrepreneurs are now leasing factory shells. It has also provided



- 16 -
equipment and tools on each estate for rental to the entrepreneurs, and
has purchased raw materials in bulk for resale to the entrepreneurs on
these estates. The original concept in establishing these estates was to
centralize entrepreneurs in the same fields of activity in one location so
that training and technical assistance to them can be easily concentrated
and coordinated. As a result, the older estates are specialized on the
basis of the raw materials used by the entrepreneurs, and house enterprises
specialized in such activities as wood-working, leather products, and light
metal working. Rentals are regularly paid by the entrepreneurs. The newer
estates have been aimed at accomodating a mixture of different types of
enterprises. It is SEDCO's intention to progressively graduate entrepre-
neurs from the estates once their businesses get bigger. Since land on
which to build larger premises is difficult to obtain, SEDCO assists grad-
uated entrepreneurs in the transition process whenever possible.
5.04      SSE Credit Scheme.  SEDCO's lending volume to SSEs has been con-
strained by limited resources. Through July, 1976 SEDCO had approved loans
totalling about E 0.2 million to small Swazi enterprises. Loans approved
have ranged in size from a small of E 30 to a high of E 6,000 with an average
size of about E 1,200. Loans approved in recent months have however been
bigger, averaging about E 2,200. SEDCO's lending has been to enterprises in
a wide variety of sectors; however, manufacturing enterprises have accounted
for a large part of its lending, with furniture manufacturers and garment
manufacturers accounting respectively for 27 and 21 per cent of total
approvals. The maturities of its loans have ranged from three months to
five years, and the funds have been used mainly to finance working capital
requirements. SEDCO's emphasis on the SSE credit scheme has been on the
promotion and development of entrepreneurs, with less stress on the loan
repayment capability of the SSEs - particularly since SEDCO's funds were
formerly all grants. SEDCO expects to double its SSE loan portfolio over
the next 2-3 years. To accomplish this, SEDCO will tap non-grant funds for
the first time and stress the financial aspects of its credit scheme. In
the interim, SEDCO has set aside substantial provisions against its past
SSE loans (Annex 23) in recognition of the high risks associated with its
SSE lending.
5.05      Equity Investments.  Although legally empowered to undertake equity
investments, SEDCO has only made two equity investments totalling E 246,000.
It took a 60% participation (E 10,000) in a small Swazi garment manufacturing
company to which it also provided a loan, and a 50% participation (E 236,000)
in a company recently formed to take over the assets and liabilities of
SEDCO's tall oil division. This division, which is unrelated to SEDCO's
small enterprise development activities, is engaged in the processing of
tall oil and has been under SEDCO's management since it was transferred
to it by the Government in 1972 to generate revenues for financing SEDCO's
SSE development programs. SEDCO's participation in this new company was
paid for with the existing assets of the division, and its partner, a pulp
company, has assumed management of the new company. SEDCO does not intend
to divert any additional resources to this tall oil company.



- 17 -
5.06      Training and Technical Assistance Scheme.  SEDCO has organized
24 courses on subjects like basic marketing and light metal engineering
mainly for the benefit of its clients on the industrial estates, and has also
recruited and trained 10 new entrepreneurs in an experimental program for
entrepreneurial development. In addition, it has set up a ceramics workshop
and a foundry which serve as training centers for Swazis. It also provides
extension services to its clients in the technical, managerial, marketing and
financial fields.
5.07      Impact.  Within the four years it has been in existence, SEDCO
has been effective in promoting and assisting small manufacturing enterprises
in Swaziland.  For the 12 months ending in July, 1975 the 65 enterprises on
its industrial estates generated sales of about E 800,000 and employed about
400 persons at an investment cost per job of about E 900 ($1,050). SEDCO's
plan to bolster the financial evaluation of its SSE clients will be a wel-
come and necessary input; with its increased levels of financial and tech-
nical assistance, the Company's impact on the SSE sector is expected to
grow significantly. SEDCO's link up with NIDCS should also accelerate the
rise of medium-sized Swazi enterprises which can be financed by NIDCS.
Policies, Procedures and Accounts
5.08      In October 1976, SEDCO's Board adopted a policy statement which
sets specific guidelines on its financial operations and supplements the
comprehensive guidelines on its general operations established under its
memorandum of association and the UNDP project document. This statement
(Annex 15) clearly delineates NIDCS and SEDCO's respective financing roles
by setting a maximum capital cost of E 50,000 on the projects to be normally
financed by SEDCO. It restricts SEDCO's normal total financial involvement
in any project to 80% of its capital cost or E 20,000, whichever is less.
It also precludes SEDCO from taking the foreign exchange risk on its foreign
currency denominated borrowings.
5.09      In the past SEDCO charged an interest rate of 8% per annum on its
SSE loans. This rate was below the general level of interest rates prevailing
in Swaziland (para. 2.19) and SEDCO was able to maintain it because its funds
for lending were cost free grant funds. To bring this lending rate more in
line with the general level of interest rates in Swaziland, and to give it a
suitable spread on its lending activities for which it will now be blending
interest bearing loan funds with grant funds, SEDCO has agreed to raise its
lending rate to 10% per annum. SEDCO's rental charges on its industrial
estates are based on the replacement costs of the fixed assets and the costs
of operating and maintaining these estates. These charges yield adequate
revenues to cover the operational costs and to provide SEDCO with a reason-
able return on its investment.
5.10      SEDCO's procedures for selecting clients for its industrial estates
and for determining their training and technical assistance needs are adequate.
Its appraisal framework for screening loan applicants has also been improved
considerably to include a more comprehensive financial analysis of the proj-
ects being financed, and an assessment of the potential training and technical



- 18 -
assistance needs of borrowers. SEDCO has agreed to adopt a new mechanism for
disbursing its SSE loans by June 1, 1977.  The new mechanism will involve the
use of SDSB as a disbursing agency, and will permit SEDCO to directly disburse
its loans from its funds, instead of the existing system under which it uses
its funds as a cash guarantee against disbursements made by SDSB.
5.11      SEDCO's accounting system is generally satisfactory.  In addition
to individual income statements for each estate, SEDCO prepares annually,
a censolidated income statement for all operations (excluding the tall oil
division) and balance sheets (unconsolidated and consolidated with the tall
oil division). These accounts have been adequately audited by Taylor, Sacco
--d Copanp,, a Swaziland based South African firm of Chartered Accountants.
-EV)C0 has agreed that in the future it will present its accounts in a way
which will permit an assessment of the financial costs and benefits of its
various operations.
Organizatio, Managemenit and Staff
5.12      SEDGO's organization structure before and after dissolution of
SEPO are shown in Annex 17. As mentioned earlier (para 3.07), SEDCO will
obtain support from NIDCS for general administrative, legal and financial
control services. Also, two projects officers from NIDCS will help SEDCO
for the appraisal of the SSE credits. This proposed structure and arrange-
ments with NIDCS appear adequate.
5.13      SEDCO is managed by a Swazi Managing Director, assisted by a small
entersrises development expert under secondment from ILO and financed by UNDP.
This able management team reports to SEDCO's Board of Directors (membership
shown in Aninex 16) for all of SEDCO's operations. SEDCO is adequately staffed
with excatriate experts financed by UNDP and bilateral donors, and Swazi
counterparts. In addition to the Project Manager, there are six expatriate
experts for entrepreneurship training, management accounting, marketing man-
agemreat, woodwor-king  building contracting, and ceramics. SEDCO has 12 Swazi
professionals including the Managing Director and the Chief of Operations.
Cooperation between the expatriates and Swazis is good, and the latter are
well motivated and competent, having received substantial on the job training
from the expatriates.
Financial Performance and Situation
5.14      SEDCO's summarized income statements for 1973-1976 are shown as
Annex 18. As a result of high administrative costs, not fully covered by
r-    : - -i ^r-^e   om is credit and rental operations, SEDCO has shown
fi ,el,'.F 6 <i-m3 en though 10 of its 12 Swazi professionals were directly
?S7?d -> ~e ,cver-'ment; Therefore, SEDCO has relied on annual government
grsn.s to cover its losses. SEDCO was however not conceived as a profit
ra.ing institution and in the foreseeable future, it will continue to rely
onr the Government to cover its operating deficits.
5.15      SEDCO's summarized balance sheets for 1973 to 1976 are shown in
Annex 18. Again because of SEDCO's special nature, attempts to assess the



- 19 -
soundness of its financial situation, using traditional leverage and liquidity
analysis would not yield any meaningful results. As of March 31, 1976, SEDCO
had a paid in capital of E 2,400, and grants of E 515,000 and E 46,000 re-
spectively from the Swaziland and Swedish governments, in addition to a
British aid loan of E 459,000. The Swaziland Government grants have been
used to finance operating deficits and SSE credits, most of which have large
provisions set against them (para 5.04), and the Swedish Government grant
has been used to finance the special foundry project. The British aid loan
(interest free) has been used to build industrial estates and for equipment.
Because of its free technical assistance services and the high but necessary
risk of capital loss it incurs to support the SSE sector, SEDCO's creditworthi-
ness does not depend on its own ability to generate income, but on the will-
ingness of the various supporting governments - especially that of Swaziland -
to continue financing the company's operating cash flow deficits. Agreement
has been reached with the Swazi Government on its continued financing of these
deficits.
VI. PROSPECTS
Industry and Tourism
6.01      There are good prospects for further development of the industrial
sector in Swaziland, given the resource base and the Government's supportive
industrial policy. Such development will occur mainly in manufacturing if
the favorable environment created by the membership in the Rand Monetary area
and the Southern African Customs Union, generous investment incentives, and
the country's political stability remains. Because of the small size of the
Swazi market, this expected growth in manufacturing will be largely export
based, and will derive mainly from large agro-industries like sugar and canned
fruit production, production of other food and beverages, and expansion in
wood pulp production. Opportunities will also exist in other subsectors like
textiles and chemicals, but these will require considerable identification and
promotion activities. The contribution of mining may temporarily decline, as
the asbestos and iron ore deposits are depleted; however, should overseas
demand for coal rise significantly the mining sector could sustain its con-
tribution to the economy. The future of tourism is less predictable since it
will depend on a successful diversification of tourist attractions so as to
strengthen the base of the industry. If such diversification does not take
place, further growth will be hampered.
NIDCS' Strategy and Operations
6.02      NIDCS' short term strategy is to concentrate on developing a well
staffed organization and procedures for effective mobilization and channeling
of resources into manufacturing enterprises and enhancing its impact on future
projects. In the medium and long term, its strategy will involve intensive
promotion of new projects through the preparation of feasibility studies for
presentation to potential investment partners. Through this the corporation



- 20 -
expects to be able to control the quality and developmental impact of proj-
ects it promotes and assists. The Corporation will also seek to diversify
its sources of local funds and expects to borrow from or sell participations
in its equity to such new institutions as the National Insurance Corporation
and the National Provident Fund. This strategy is appropriate.
6.03      Annex 8 shows NIDCS' recent pipeline of identified projects.  The
majority of the proposed projects are export-oriented and represent a diver-
sification from the agroindustries on which past manufacturing growth has
depended. NIDCS' operations will thus properly focus on the non-traditional
and newer areas of manufacturing in Swaziland where promotion activities are
required and for which long term financing is not as easily available as it
is for traditional activities like sugar processing and fruit canning. NIDCS
expects its investment approvals to amount to E 3.2 million in FY1977, in-
creasing gradually to E 5.9 million in FY1981 (Annexes 9 and 10). As in
the past, its financing will be mainly through long term loans and factory
buildings, with a few minority equity holdings. This forecast level of oper-
ations seems reasonable in view of NIDCS' pipeline, the favorable prospects
for manufacturing activities in Swaziland, and the expected strengthening of
NIDCS as an institution.
SEDCO's Operations
6.04      SEDCO will continue assisting small Swazi manufacturers through pro-
vision of factory shells on its industrial estates, provision of training and
technical assistance, and provision of credit. In providing such assistance
it plans to place emphasis on the SSEs' ability to service their financial
obligations. Its projected investments (Annex 21) include E 420,000 to be
spent between 1977 and 1979 for improvement of facilities on its existing
industrial estates and for the construction of a new estate with 24 workshop
shells. This investment in new facilities is highly desirable considering
the great demand for such factory shells by small manufacturers, and the
past success of SEDCO in improving the operations of clients on its industrial
estates. SEDCO expects to commit E 75,000 in SSE credits in 1977 and to grad-
ually increase its annual loan commitments to E 200,000 by 1980. Although
the potential demand for SSE credit is higher than SEDCO's projected lending,
these conservative targets are reasonable, and reflect the necessary caution
that is required in expanding SSE lending, given the high risks of capital
loss involved. SEDCO also plans to introduce a bookkeeping service for small
manufacturers and to increase its marketing assistance to clients.
Resource Requirements
6.05      The table below details NIDCS and SEDCO's estimated resource re-
quirements for FY 1978 and FY1979 (the two years during which the proposed
IBRD loan is expected to be committed), their forecast sources of financing,
and the level of support needed from the Government of Swaziland to cover
the estimated financing gap:



- 21 -
Projected Commitments (E million)
NIDCS                                        SEDCO
Equity                             1.46      SSE credit scheme        0.27
Loans                              4.72      Industrial Estates        0.30
Buildings                          2.75      Others /1                 0.57
8.93                               1.14
of which:                F.C. /2        L.C. /2                F.C. /2    L.C. /2
7.14           1.79                  0.91        0.23
Financing
Funds from Operations    -              0.59                    -           -
IBRD                     4.09            -                     0.26         -
U.K. Government           -              -                     0.30         -
SIDA                      -              -                     0.10         -
4.09           0.59                  0.66         -
Swazi Government        (3.05)          (1.20)                (0.25)      (0.23)
/1   Includes administrative costs of credit, training and technical assist-
ance schemes.
/2   F.C.: Foreign component; L.C.: Local component.
6.06      The proposed Bank loan to NIDCS of US$4.7 million (E 4.09 million)
will thus fill about 57% of the foreign exchange requirements of NIDCS' com-
mitments, leaving the rest to be financed by other potential foreign lenders
or the Swazi Government. Such foreign lenders may include the European
Investment Bank (EIB), which may finance E 1.0 million or more of the foreign
exchange requirement. On local currency funding, E 0.5 million in loan (at
commercial terms) may be forthcoming from the Swazi Nation Fund in addition
to the E 0.59 million to be generated from NIDCS' operations. However, given
the uncertainty of fund availability from this source, the Government may
have to finance approximately E. 1.2 million in local currency for NIDCS.
SEDCO expects to continue receiving funds to finance the estimated foreign
costs of its operations mainly from the Governments of Swaziland, U.K. and
Sweden. Because of the estimated increase in its SSE lending, however, it
will need an IBRD loan of US$300,000 (E 260,000) to finance part of the
anticipated commitments of SSE credits over the two year period. Government
would be prepared to provide approximately E 0.48 million to meet SEDCO's
other resource requirements over the two year period.



- 22 -
NIDCS' Financial Prospects
6.07      Annexes 11 to 14 show NIDCS' projected financial statements and
ratios. NIDCS expects to make a modest return on net worth of 2.2 percent
in 1977, increasing gradually to 7.8 per cent in 1981. Its administrative
expenses as a percentage of average total assets would decrease gradually
from the 5.4 per cent experienced in 1976 to 3.4 per cent in 1981, as opera-
tions expand and efficiencies are derived from scale. Although the expected
level of profitability is modest, it is sufficient to permit NIDCS to main-
tain an adequate equity base.
6.08      NIDCS' outstanding portfolio is expected to increase from E 5.6
million at the end fo FY 1976 to E 22.9 million at the end of FY 1981.
Provisions have been estimated to amount to 4 per cent of the outstanding
loan and equity portfolio in FY 1981. Mainly because of expected annual
contributions of E 1.0 million by Government to the share capital of NIDCS,
its debt/equity ratio will drop from 2.6/1 in 1976 to 1.3/1 in 1977 and rise
gradually to 1.8/1 in 1981. For the purpose of calculating NIDCS' debt/
equity ratio, it was agreed to exclude consideration of SEDCO as it is a
specialized, non-profit institution involved in the promotion of small-scale
enterprises and, for this purpose, carries a debt level (from Government and
bilateral sources) which greatly exceeds its small equity base. However,
NIDCS will limit SEDCO's outstanding long-term debt to E 1.5 million and
will review this limit with the Bank from time to time. NIDCS' debt service
coverage will improve from the minimum acceptable of 1/1 in 1977 to 2.0/1 by
1981.
SEDCO's Financial Prospects
6.09      Annexes 22 through 24 show SEDCO's projected income and expenditure
statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements. SEDCO is expected to
generate a small net income on its lending operations, after allowing for
provisions on losses, (conservatively estimated at 10% of loan disbursements)
but before general administrative expenses.  Regarding SEDCO's rental and
bulk purchasing activities on the estates, it is expected that with improved
control on administrative expenses and billing procedures, the estate opera-
tions will become self sufficient and generate profits. Overall, however,
because the income from its small lending operation will not be sufficient
to cover the necessarily high provisions and administrative expenses involved,
it will continue to show annual operating losses. In addition, because its
training and technical assistance services are free, it will not generate
any income to cover the operating costs involved. The Government has agreed
to directly finance these costs.
6.10      SEDCO's SSE credits outstanding (before provisions) are pro-
jected to increase from E 111,000 at the end of FY 1976 to E 492,000 at the
end of FY 1981. Provisions which amounted to 80 per cent of the outstanding
credits at the end of FY 1976 are expected to be reduced gradually to 33 per
cent by the end of FY 1981, as a result of (i) expected reductions in capital
losses resulting from the expected improvements in the credit screening



- 23 -
capabilities of SEDCO, and (ii) SEDCO's increased technical assistance to its
borrowers. A projected cash flow statement for the credit scheme shows that
SEDCO will generate enough cash from collections of outstanding loans and
interest, to meet the debt service requirements of the proposed IBRD loan.
However, recognizing the risks associated with this operation in the SSE sec-
tor even considering SEDCO's new emphasis on the debt repayment capability of
its SSE clients, the Government has agreed that it will guarantee the repay-
ment to NIDCS of SEDCO's portion of the loan. In addition, for purposes of
financial prudency, SEDCO has agreed not to incur more than E 1.5 million in
long term debts without prior consultation with the Bank.
VII. THE LOAN - ITS JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND FEATURES
7.01      NIDCS and SEDCO are national institutions with important roles in
the development of the industrial sector in Swaziland; NIDCS as the prime
promoter and long term financier of manufacturing enterprises and SEDCO as
the specialist in developing and assisting Swazi entrepreneurs. These in-
stitutions have investment programs which, if well implemented and super-
vised, will assist considerably in the development of the industrial sector,
and to a lesser extent tourism, and will thereby contribute to the overall
development of the economy. The proposed loan would provide part of the
foreign exchange requirements for the financing of these investments. In
addition, by lending to NIDCS and SEDCO, the Bank will make significant
contributions to their further development as effective development institu-
tions and financial intermediaries. In particular, the Bank will through
its review of some of NIDCS' projects, and other supervisory relationships,
assist in the improvement of NIDCS' procedures for evaluation and supervi-
sion of projects and thereby strengthen its capacity to select and implement
financially and technically viable and economically justified projects. On
the SEDCO side, the Bank will contribute to improved management of the credit
scheme through its assistance for improving the procedures for loan evalua-
tion, disbursement and collection.
7.02      There is an important risk, however, in lending to SEDCO since
SSE's normally have a high rate of failure, and the potential for capital
loss to SEDCO is great. This risk is worth taking in the context of Swaziland
because of: (1) the critical importance of small scale Swazi entrepreneurs
in the efforts to resolve the severely dualistic structure of the economy;
and (2) the technical assistance that the Bank can provide SEDCO, through
its association, in improving its financial discipline. In addition, the
extensive training and technical assistance which will be provided by SEDCO
to its SSE borrowers will help alleviate this risk.
7.03      NIDCS would use $4.7 million of the proposed loan directly, to
finance the c.i.f. cost (i.e. the price at Swaziland's border) of imported
goods, the foreign exchange cost of ancillary services, and the foreign
component of imported goods purchased locally through normal trade channels
and of civil works. NIDCS would repay this portion according to a flexible
amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules



- 24 -
of NIDCS' subloans which now have a maximum maturity of 12 years, including
grace periods of up to 3 years. The foreign exchange risk on this portion of
the loan would be borne by the Government, which will charge NIDCS a fee of
1% for this service. NIDCS will pass on this fee to the subborrowers.
NIDCS would need the Bank's prior approval for all projects using $100,000 or
more of the proposed loan, and would not be able to use more than $1 million
in total without the Bank's approval.
7.04      The remaining $0.3 million of the proposed loan would be onlent by
NIDCS to SEDCO for its SSE lending at the rate at which the Bank loan is lent
to NIDCS, but without a commitment fee. Should SEDCO not require all $0.3
million during the projected financing period, the remainder could be used
by NIDCS upon the agreement of SEDCO. This loan would also finance the
c.i.f. cost (i.e. the price at Swaziland border) of imported goods, the
foreign exchange cost of ancillary services, the foreign component of im-
ported goods purchased locally through normal trade channels and of civil
works. SEDCO would repay this loan to NIDCS over 10 years including 4 years
grace. Because of the high risks involved in SEDCO's lending, the Government
will guarantee the repayment of this loan to NIDCS. The Government will
also bear the foreign exchange risk on subloans made by SEDCO, but without a
fee. To enable the Bank to assess the improvements in SEDCO's appraisal of
SSE projects, the first five such projects to be financed by SEDCO out of the
loan would require prior approval by the Bank.   Thereafter, SEDCO would only
submit, on a quarterly basis, a summary list of projects it has approved.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of $5.0 million, to be
utilized as outlined in paragraphs 7.03 and 7.04.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT OORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
Comparative Price Indices and Interest Rates: Swaziland and South Africa.
1. Price Indices 1972 = 100
Swaziland Retail Prices            South Africa
"Bj~2       Consumer     Wholesale
Period         Index "A"A/  Index               Prices         Prices
1971             98.5           97.7             93.9          92.5
1972            100.0         100.0             100.0         100.0
1973            109.2          111.6            l09.5         113.2
1974            122.3          133.1            122.2         133.5
1975            142.9          149.2            138.7         156.5
1976 (Jan)      151.8          153.9            146.9         169.1
2. Interest Rates Per Annum (%) (May 1976)
Swaziland            South Africa
Bank Deposits
31 days                         7.25                  8.00
12 months                       9.00                  9.50
Other
Treasury Bills                  6.00                  7.19
Prime Landing                  10.50                 12.00
/ Mesares zha3ges in cost of living for middle to high income groups in
the capital town of Mbabane.
J Measures changes in cost of living for low wage earners in the two main
towns of Mbabane and Manzini.
Source:  The Monetary Authority of Swaziland; Quarterly Bulletin.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
Policy Statement
1. In accordance with the Act establishing NIDCS, the Corporation shall
guide, promote and assist undertakings in industry, tourism, mining and
agro-industries.
2. NIDCS shall finance only economically sound, financially viable, and
technically feasible projects, and those which have or will have
competent management.
3. In stressing the importance of economic return to Swaziland, NIDCS is
adhering to government policy that programmes and projects should
contribute to achieving the aims set forth in the Second National Development
Plan. Thus NIDCS recognizes a responsibility to influence all projects
with which it becomes involved so that, consonant with adequate profitability:
(a) The project's employment effect is the largest possible;
(b) as extensive training as possible is provided for local
citizens of all levels;
(c) as many of the employees of the undertaking as is consistent
with the maintenance of efficiency, are citizens of Swaziland;
(d) whenever possible the project is located outside the
Manzini - Mbabane area;
(e) local raw materials are used to the largest extent possible;
(f) as much contact with other local enterprises as possible is
created in order to generate linkage effects with the rest
of the economy.
4. NIDCS may provide investors with assistance in the following categories:
(a)  Financial assistance in the form of medium or long-term loans,
equity capital or guarantees;
(b) Factory buildings for lease and/or sale;
(c) Local liaison and coordination with government and other
agencies;  and
(d) Feasibility studies to establish new enterprises.
5.  In entering into a commitment, NIDCS will generally be guided by the
following principles in addition to those provided by law:
(a) The Corporation should not invest more than 15% of its net
worth (viz., paid-in share capital plus retained profits
less accrued losses) in share capital of any one project;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(b) NIDCS' total equity holding in all supported projects shall
not exceed the Corporation's own net worth;
(c) NIDCS will normally not provide more than 35% of its own net
worth in the form of loans, equity, guarantees and
buildings to any one project;
(d) NIDCS will normally not take more than 40% of the equity of
any company and will normally not manage enterprises;
(e) The Corporation's total financial commitment (viz., equity,
loans, guarantees and buildings) to any single project
should not normally exceed 60% of the project's total
capital cost, including buildings and permanent working
capital;
(f) In recognition of SEDCO's financing role, NIDCS will not
normally invest in any project with a total capital
cost (including buildings and permanent working capital)
of less than E50,000.
6. NIDCS will normally charge such rates for its assistance in loans, guarantees,
factory shells and feasibility studies as will recover the costs to the
Corporation and provide it with a reasonable return. As far as is possible
rates charged will reflect prevailing market conditions in Swaziland.
7. As NIDCS is a development agency, its funds should be spent on new
undertakings or on the expansion of existing ones. The Corporation will
normally not therefore undertake re-financing.
8. In projects where NIDCS is involved with loans and/or equity, the
Corporation will normally maintain the right to be represented by one or more
Directors on the Board of the operating company.
9. The Corporation will always require adequate security and/or guarantees
for its loans.
10. NIDCS shall not incur exchange risks with respect to those of its
borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies.
11. With regard to its investments NIDCS has the long-term intention to
revolve its funds as much as possible by a) giving tenants of factory
shells the option to take the shells over and b) by passing on shares
in assisted companies to the Swazi public.
12. Local Swazi officers shall be given as much responsibility in running the
affairs of the Corporation as is deemed prudent by the Board of NIDCS.
During the transitional period, therefore, when a large proportion of NIDCS'
staff consists of expatriate officers, such officers shall be responsible
for training local employees.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
13. The Corporation's total debts including guarantees shall not at any
time exceed three times the amount of its paid-in share capital plus
surplus and reserves.
14. The Corporation shall recruit qualified personnel for its operation.
15. The Corporation shall supervise its investments to protect its interests
and to enable it to assist its projects to the extent necessary.
16. NIDCS' management shall be responsible for preparing and submitting
to the Board an annual programme of action which will include a budget.
Such a programme shall, inter alia, show the resources available to the
Corporation, a project by project review of activities and proposed
investments/loans by the Corporation, the resource gap, if any, and proposals
regarding ways and means to close such a gap. The Board shall be informed
on a regular basis of progress and/or proposed changes with respect to the
annual programme.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INIDJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(as of January 1, 1977)
Chairman   : Mr. Ol;Iagan Ward      Retired Businessman
Directors  : Mr. L. Sithebe         Managing Director, NIDCS
Mr. J. Nxumalo        Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance
and Planning
Mr. H. Nathan         Technical Advisor and Former Managina
Director, NIDCS
Prince Makhungu       Swazi Businessman
Mr. J. Philips        Managing Director, Barclays Bank Swaziland
Ltd.
Mr. A. C. Donato      Managing Director, Standard Bank,
Swaziland Ltd.
EAPID
March 1977



NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Board of Directors
Managing
Director
_I_ 
Adndnistrationl      | Legal1                   Chief of                   Financial                  Property and
Dept.                 Dept.                   Operations                 Controllerz/               Buildings
_____ ,_____                ________.___aSupervisor
Project              Project                   roject
Preparation          Appraisal                Supervision
Division             Division                 Civision
Professional Staff
Expatriate:   7
Swazi     :9
Total    : 16
1/ These Departments /ivisions will also service SEDCO
x
EAPID                                                                                                          4 >
March 1977                                                                                                    0



NATTONAL. INDUSTRIAL, DFVELOPM4ENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
ELQUIT-  ND LOAN PORTFO.IO (in Emalangeni)
As of Marclh 31, 1976
NIDCS' Equity              N[DCS' Loan
Activity            ttstand!ng  Holdin,  7,  Otstanding  Interest                         Remarks
1.  Swaziland Commercial Radio (Pty) Ltd.    Broadcasting                       7       1. 27.           -            -        Profitable Company
2.  Swaziland Laboratories                       c.hemical-s                  -           -           67,000          -        Company defunct.  Litigation in
progress to recover amount.
3.  Swazi Furjoin                                Wooden Furniture
Manufacturing                 20        90%          46,320         107.      Company under NIDCS management. Profit
expected in 1977.
4.  Trademark Swaziland (Pty) Ltd.               Wlolesalers                    1        507.        Z28,000         107.      Profitablc Company.
5.  Swaziland Milling Co. Ltd.                   Maize Milling                -           -          6,19,007        10%       Profitahle Company.
6.  Swaki (Pty) Ltd.                             Holding Company
for Trademark
Swaziland &
Swaziland
Milling Cn.             500,000         507.           -             -        Profitable Company
7.  Swaaziland National Lottery                  Lottery                    2,500        50%             -            -        Shares held on belhalf of Government.
Profitable company.
8.  Mbabane DevelopnenCt Corporation             Cononcrcial                                                                   Profitable Company.
Real Estate              70,000         507.           -             -
9.  Music Radio (Pty) Ltd.                       Broadcasting                   7       1.2%             -            -        ProfiLable Company.
10.  Swazl Feeds (Pty) Ltd.                       Animal Feed                   15         57.          16,884        11%       Initial Mechanical ProbLems being
resolved.
EAPID
March  1977                                                                                                                                                                     Ul
I'.)



EQUITY AND LOAN PORTFOLIO (in _rsalangemi)
As of Karch 31, 1976
(Continued )
NIDCS' t'ujitX              NIDCS' Loan
Acti vLy           Ou1tstandi&n   loding _    O tstandin  Interest                        Remarks
11.  Polyplas (Pty) ltd.                         Plastic rolitcts               1       90%             260,997    10%        Conmpany has history of losses.
Management recently assumed by NIDCS
12.  Afritex Swaziland (Pty) Ltd.                Textiles                  50,(00      33 1/3%         1,035,493      -         Company in liquidation.  ALiounts
may be written off.
13.  Neopac Ltd.                                 Pa ckaging                20,000        10%               -          -        Profitable company.
Ma teria Is
14.  NBC Ltd1.                                   Soft Drinks                5,000        407J             68,222     10%       Start-up phase.  Company under  1IDCS
Management.
15.  Swaziland Tractor Project                   Agricultural                -             -              20,000    10%        CompaTny iot yet in commercial
Engineering                                                                   production, Loan to be coverted to eqo.-ty.
16.  Knitwear Holdings Ltd.                      Textiles                       1      33 1/3%           211,277     11%/      ProfitabLe Company.
17.  Trio Garment Manufacturers Ltd.             Textiles                    -            -               42,581     116       Profitable Company.
18.  Salora Swaziland Ltd.                       TV Assembly              100,(00        20%                -         -        Start-up phase.
19.  Pioneer Textiles 1Manufactuarting Ltd.      Textiles                    -            -              256,250     10%       Defaulting on interest payiaants
20.  Swaziland Printing, Publishing Co.          Printing                 300,142       100%                -         -        Profitable.  Under NIDCS' Management
1/
1,047,694                      2,872,031      -
1/    This inclutdes the amoaint, of E 8i7,Oo0 uut.ntanding in .9waziland lahoratorive  and Swa7iJ.and Tractor Projact which
were reported in the FY-1976 bWdance Snflet as debtors.
EAPID
March  1977                                                                                                                                                               " 
a0
oD m
Fh



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INIDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
AUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS
(E'OOO)
1973        1974        1975          1976
Income
Interest on Loans                            314         63          8L           130
Dividend Income                             160         120         176           249
Rental Income                                24          30          61           133
Other Income                                  8           1           8            17
Total                             226         214         329           529
Expenses
Interest Charges                            169          92         109           17b
Administrative Expenses                      84          47          85            87
Depreciation                                 12 21                   35            71
Losses on Investments and
Guarantees                               s6          -                          i
Other                                     -_-                         7             40
Total                            313         160         236           361
Profit, (loss) before Provisions            (8.)         5L          93          iL
Provisions for doubtful debts                50          -           20           (LO)
Other Provisions                             65          1           26         1,23  /
Net Profit (losses)                        (202)         hO          1X7       (1,105)
1/  For 16 1/2 months period February 16, 1971 to June 30, 1973
2/  For nine months July 1, 1973 to March 31, 1971L
V/  For year endinF 31st March.
LI Includes E1,085,000 provided for against possible losses in Afritex Ltd.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF &iAZILAND
SUMMAREZED AUDITED BALANCE SHTS (as at March 3-R)
(E'OOO)
1973       1974      1975      1976
ASSET S
Current Assets
Cash                                            68          44        53      129
Other                                           87          89       135      115
155        133       188       244
Portfolio
Loans                                          875         831    1,052    2,785
Eouity Investments                             502         572       572    1,048
1,377    1,403    1,624    3,833
Less Provisions                                 65          79       10L    1,434  /
Net Portfolio                                1,312       1,324    1,520    2,399
Land, Buildings and Administrative
Assets (Net)                                      532         653    1,200    1,774
Total Assets                         1,999       2,110    2,908    4,417
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities                                83         140      126       437
L.T. Liabilities
Kirsh Holdings Ltd.                            808         701      603       371
Standard Bank Ltd.                             482        373       280       187
Government of Swaziland                        468         424      996    2,304
1,758      1,498    1,879    2,862
Share Capital                                     230         429      783    2,053
Reserves                                         (202)       (162)    (115)  (1,220)
28        267       668      833
Government Grants                                 130         205      235       285
158        472       903    1,118
Total Liabilities and Equity                    1,999       2,110    2,908    4,417
j As of June 30, 1973
2 Includes E1.08 million provision for Afritex Ltd.
EAPID
March 1977



NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
PROJECT POSSIBILITIES
(As of August 1976)
New or                  Estimated    Potential NIDCS Financing
Project                    Area of Activity       Expansion   Ownership   Project                 (E 000's)                         Remarks
Cost     Equity   Loan  Building  Total
E 000's
Ceramics Project                  Table-ware Manufacture  New           Jt Venture    2,400         400  1,000      -       1,400  Final negotations with Israeli
partners in progress.
YKK Zip Fasteners                 Zip manufacture           New        Foreign           950        -      -        250       250  Project under study.
Fertilizer Project                Nitrogenous               Expansion  Foreign          n.a.        -    1,000      -       1,000  Convertible loan for granulating
Fertilizers                                                                                      plant. Highly probable
Swazi Furjoin                     Wooden Furniture         Expansion  Swazi             n.a.         25     40      150       215  Company owned by NIDCS.  Expan-
sion highly probable.
Tinkabi Tractor Project           Tractor Manufacture      Expansion  Jt Venture        n.a.        200    450      -         650  CommerciAl production of Tinkabi
tractor. Probable.
Pioneer Textiles                  Textiles                 Expansion  Jt Venture        n.a.        -      -        500       500  Buildings for 2nd and 3rd stages
of project.  Highly probable.
Bakery                            Bakery                   Expansion  Jt Venture        n.a.        -      -        200       200  Project will acquire & expand
three backeries.  Highly probable.
Vehicle Assembly Plant            Vehicle Assembly          New        Foreign          n.a.        -      -        500       500  Feasibility Studies underway.
Printing Company                  Printing                 Expansion  Swazi             n.a.        -      400      -         400  Additional plant for printing.
Probable.
Formaldehyde Plant                Formaldehyde &           New         Jt Venture    2,300          -    1,000      -       1,000  Project under study.  Probable.
I                           moulding powders
Moulding Plant                    Melamine Products         New         Jt Venture      n.a.        100    200      -         300  Depends on decision on
formaldehyde plant.
Bush Baby Project                 Vehicle Assembly          New        Jt Venture       n.a.        250    250      500    1,000  Studies under way.  Possible.
Plastic sack project              Plastic sacks            New         Jt Venture    1,000          100    100      300       500  Project being appraised.
Possible.
Sawmill Project                   Sawmill                  New         Jt Venture    1,300          250    400       -        650  Project identified & prepared
by NIDCS. Technical and
_                 _ -       -    managerial partner being
sought.
1,325  4,840   2,400    8,565
n.a.=Not Available
EAPID                                                                                                                                                                O
March 1977



ANNEX 9
page 1 of 2
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1. Investment Approvals
FY1977 and 1978: Based on pipeline of projects
FY1979  - 1981:  Investments increase by approximately 10% per annum
2. Investment Commitments
Equity: 90% in year approved; 10% in following year
Loans : 80% in year approved; 20% in following year
Building: 80% in year approved;20% in following year
3. Investment Disbursements
Equity   : 100% in year committed
Loans    : 70% in year committed; 30% in following year
Buildings: 60% in year committed; 40% in following year
4. Income
Dividends:  E 000's    1977      1978     1979     1980      1981
Old Portfolio:        236       278      295       312      373
New Portfolio: 5% in fourth year after commitment and thereafter.
10% in fifth year after commitment and thereafter.
Interest on Loans:     1977: E175,000 on existing portfolio;
E 54,000 on new disbursements
1978-1979: 11.0% on average portfolio
1980-1981: 12.0% on average portfolio
Rentals:               EI4h,000 per annum on existing buildings.
On new factory buildings 13% per annum on costs,
commencing a year after disbursements.
Interest on Short-term
Investments:         E12,000 in 1977; E27,000 in 1978 and 6% on net
current assets thereafter.



ANNEX 9
page 2 of 2
5. Expenses
Interest charges:            Or existing loans based on loan agreements.
On new loans average 9% from Government and
IBRD and 10% on others.
Administrative Expenses:    E175,000 for 1977; E200,000 for 1978 and
increasing by 15% thereafter.
Depreciation:                51% per annum on book value of
buildings.
Provisions:                  2% on annual disbursements of loans and equity.
6. Resources
Equity: New share capital will be paid-in as follows:
1977:      E1,947,117
1978-1981: El.0 million per year
Loans:   New borrowings will be undertaken as follows:
IBRD:      FY1978 E4.1 million   9% Repayment as for sub-loans
KfW        FY1977  El.O million  10%   13 years including 3 years
grace
Swaziland Government:
FY1977  E1,050,000      9%   12 years including 2 years
grace
FY1978  E2,000,000      9%   15 years including 5 years
grace
FY1979  E1,200,000      9%   15 years including 5 years
grace
FY1980  E2,000,000      9%   15 years including 5 years
grace
FY198l  E2,500,000      9%   15 years including 5 years
grace
7. Loan Collection
Existing Loans:      E'OOO   1977      1978     1979      1980     1981
30       90      235       224       234
New Loans:           10 equal yearly installments with
2 years grace period.
8. Sale of Investments and Buildings:
None during the period 1977 - 1981
9. Administrative Assets:
To increase by E10,000 in 1978 and E15,000 in 1981
1/ These amounts may be redueed in proportion to new overseas or domestic sources
of loans as they are identified.                                   EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX lo
Pa-ge-T-of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZIIAND
Proected Cperations
(In E'OOO's)
Year ending March 31                1977      1978       1979      158o       1981
Approvals
Equity                          625        700       770        850        930
Loans                         1,490      2,350     2,585      2,845      3,120
Buildings                     1,050      1,350     1,485      1,o35      1,800
Total                    3,165     4,4OO      4,840      5,330     5,850
Foreign Conr)onent            2,532      3,520     3,872      4,264      4,680
Commitments
Equity                          563        693        763       842        922
Loans                         1,192      2,178     2,538      2,793     3,o65
Buildings                       840      1,290     1,458      1,605     1,767
Total                   _25                              __6_ _4 5  % 240
Foreign Oomponent             2,076      3,329     3,807      4,192     4,603
Disbursements
Equity                          563        693        763       842        922
Loans                           864 2   1,883      2,430      2,716     2,984
Buildings                       884      1,110     1,391      1,46     1,702
Total                    2,311     3,686      4,584      5,104     5,608
Foreign Component             1,849      2,949     3,667      4,083     4,486
1/ Includes E 30,000 carried over from 1976
2/ Includes E380,000 carried over from 1976
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
Projected Income Statements
(In E 000's)
Year ending March 31                 1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
(Actual)
Income
Interest on Loans                130    229    383    597    911  1,178
Dividend Income                  249    236    278    295    312    401
Rental Income                    133    144    259    403    584    785
Other Income                      17      12     27      23     16     18
Total                       529    621    947  1,318  1,823  2,382
Expenses
Interest Charges                 178    244    349    607    831  1,o60
Administrative Expenses            87    175    200    230    266    304
Depreciation                      71    132    181    242    307    377
Other                             45      -      31 -   -       -       -
Total                       381    551    761  1,079  1,404  1,741
Profit (Loss) before Provisions   148       70    186    239    419    641
Provisions                       192531   29       52      64     71     78
Net Profit (Losses)             (1,105)    41    134    175    348    563
1/ Includes E1,o85,000 provided for against losses in Afritex Ltd.
2 Commitment charge on IBRD Loan
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT OORPORATION FOR SWAZILAND
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
In E 000's
As of March 31                 1976        1977      1978      1979     1980      1981
(A-FEai1)     -----
ASSETS
Net Current Assets              (193)        91       379       262      245      101
Portfolio
Equity Investments          1,048     1,561 j    2,254    3,017    3,859    4,781
Lo anis                     2,785      2,584  J   4,377    6,486    8,704   10,937
Buildings (Net)             1,765      2 517      3,446    41595    5,834    7 159
5,598     6,662     10,077   14,098   18,397
Less Provisions             1,434        378 1      430       494      565       643
Net Portfolio               4,164     6,284       9,647   13,604   17,832   22,234
Administrative Assets (Net)        9          9          9        19       19        34
Total Assets                   3,980     6,384      10,035   13,885  1is096   22,369
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
L.T. Liabilities
Kirsh Holdings Ltd.           371        236        101       101      _
Standard Bank Ltd.            187       100         -         -        -
Government of Swaziland    2,304       2,442      4,346    5,282    7,004    9,249
I.B.R.D.                      -          -          348    2,087    3,429    3,994
KfW                           -          500      1,000    1 000       900       800
2,862     3,278       5,795    8,470   11.333   14,043
Share Capital                  2.053      4,000      5,000    6,000    7,000    8,000
Reserves                      (1 220)   (1 179)    (1,045)    (870)    (522)         41
833        2l       3,955  5,130    6,478    8,041
Government Grants                285        285        285       285      285       285
1,118     3,106       4,240    5,415    6,763    8,326
Total Liabilities
and Equity                     3,980      6,384     10,035   13,885   18,096   22,369
1/  E 50,000 of equity investment and E 1,035,000 of loans in Afritex have been
written off from the portfolio. Provisions have been written down by an
equivalent amount.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEFELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in E ooo0 s)
For Year Ending 31st March                  1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
SOURCES
Funds from Operations                     202     367      481     726   1,018
Drawdown on Borrowings
Government                         1,050   2,000   1,200   2,000   2,500
IBRD                                 -       348   1,739   1,342       565
KfW                                  500     500      -       -        -
1,752   3,215  73-,420   4,06        4,083
Additional Share Capital                1,035 g 1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
Collection of Loans                        30      90      321     498      751
Total Sources                      2,817   4,305   4,741   5,566   5,834
USES
Investments
Equity                               563     693      763     842     922
Loans                                864   1,883   2,430   2,716   2,984
Buildings                            884   1,110   1,391   1,546   1 702
2,311   3,8    4,8   -,T6
Repayment of Loans                        222     331      264     479      355
Administrative Assets                     -       -         10      -        15
Total Uses                        2,533   4,017   4,858   5,583   5,978
Net Cash Flow                             284      288    (117)    (17    (144)
2,817   4,305   4,741   5,566   5,834
1/  Additional share capital will amount to E 1,947,000 out of which E 912,000
will represent conversion of Swazi Government loans and accrued interest
into equity, leaving E 1,035,000 to be paid in cash.
EAPID
March 1977



NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS
Actual                                 Projected
1.  Income Statement Items as % of          1973     1974    1975      1976      1977    1975    1979    1980    1981
Average Total Assets
Gross Income                           22.6      13.8    13.1      14.4     11.1    11.2    11.0    11.4    11.7
Less:  Financial Expenses               21.5      5.9      4.3      5.0       4.4     4.5      5.1     5.2      5.2
Administrative EXpenses 1]       9.8       4.4     5.1       5.4      5.5      4.5      3.9     3.6      3.-
Gross Profit                            (8.7)     3.5      3.7      4.0       1.2     2.2      2.0     2.6      3.2
Less: Provisions for loans and
investments                     11.5       0.9     1.8      34.2      0.5      0.6     0.5      0.4     0.4
Net Profit                             (20.2)     2.6     1.9    (30.2)      0.7      1.6      1.5     2.2      2.8
2.  Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend Income as % of Average
equity portfolio                    63.7      22.3    30.8      30.7     18.1    14.6    11.2       9.1      9.3
Income from loans as % of average
loan portfolio                       7.8       7.4     8.9       6.8      8.5    11.0    11.0    12.0    12.0
Cost of debt as % of average
total debt                          18.3       5.3     6.o       6.7      7.0      7.9     8.5      7.3      8.3
3.  Net Profit
Net profit as % of year end
equity                            (127.8)      8.5     5.2    (98.8)      1.5      3.4     3.4      5.4      7.0
Net profit as % of average
equity                            (255.7)    12.7      6.8   (109.3)      2.2      4.0     3.9      6.0      7.8
4. Debt
Long term debt/equity                 11.14   3.24   2.1/1    2.64    1.3/1   1.5/1   1.74   1.84    1.84
Interest and Principal Coverage         -         -       -                  O 1.04    1.2/1   1.6/1   1.64   2.OA
j   Including depreciation but excluding loss on investments
I-h
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
SEDCO: Statement of Policy
OBJECTIVES OF SEDCO
1. The objectives of the company shall be to provide financial and technical
assistance to qualified Swazi entrepreneurs to enable them to establish
viable manufacturing and, in rural areas, commercial enterprises to allow
them to contribute to the economic development of Swaziland. To achieve
this end, the company shall be guided by its Board of Directors and policy
statement and will:
(i) provide short- and medium-to-long term loans to qualified
Swazi enterprises;
(ii) establish and administer industrial estates for use by
suitable Swazi entrepreneurs;
(iii) establish and operate a limited number of new manufacturing
projects for the purpose of training Swazi citizens in
new technical skills and the operation of new businesses
with the ultimate objective of selling such projects to
Swazi citizens for their ownership and management as
enterprises;
(iv) to participate for a pre-determined period in the provision
of equity capital (up to 50%) in those commercially
viable enterprises with similar objectives as stated in
(iii) above;
(v) provide training and extension services to Swazi entrepreneurs.
In addition, SEDCO's operations shall be guided by the following:
2. SEDCO shall finance only financially sound and technically viable projects
which also have immediate or potential economic benefits to Swaziland.
3. SEDCO shall not normally invest in any project with total capital cost
including buildings and working capital of more than E50,000 and will not
invest an amount of more than E20,000 in any project.
4. SEDCO shall normally not finance more than 80% of the project's total
capital costs (including buildings and working capital), or E20,000
whichever is less.
5. (a) SEDCO will normally not invest an amount exceeding 25% of SEDCO's
net worth (defined as paid in share capital, gi4ants, and
accumulated reserve) in the form of equity in any one enterprise;
(b) SEDCO's total equity holdings shall not exceed its own total net worth;



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
(c) SEDCO shall not normally take more than 50% of the equity
of any company or manage enterprises.
6. SEDCO shall normally not undertake refinancing.
7. SEDCO will seek to protect itself against the exchange risks of
foreign borrowings.
8. Whenever possible, SEDCO will charge economic rates for its assistance
with loans, industrial estate facilities, extension services and training
so as to recover as much of its costs as is practicable and generate a
reasonable return on its operations.
9. The company shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations. It will
give special attention to the training of its Swazi staff so that over time,
qualified Swazis may be able to replace expatriate staff.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (SEDCO)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(As of January 1977)
Chairman                    : Mr. A.R. Shabangu          Undersecretary, Ministry
of Industry, Mines and
Tourism
Deputy Chairman             : Mr. L. Sithebe             Ministry of Industry, Mines
and Tourism
Directors                   : Mr. A. McGuire             Acting General Manager,
Swaziland Savings and
Development Bank
Mr. G.F. Dhlamini         Managing Director, SEDCO
Mr. E.E. Mamba            Swazi businessman
Mr. R. Flaye              Representative, Ministry
of Finance and Planning
EAPID
March 1977



THE '4ALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
PRE-ACQJUISITION  ORGANIZATION  STRUCJ RE:   SEDGO/SEPO
rUUi/lLO |    |            Itnder  Secretary
Project !       Mtniatr  of Industry, Toeri  & Mines
-   -------,---_ __________ ----__ -----------------__    --_------------------------------------------------------------- |-SEDCO-
| rncipl                                    
1*|  SE- - -  -- - - - -- - --- - S-- - 1Managiig Dr
____________________________ - - ----------------------------------------------------------------                             SECO  reto
Entrepreneurship           Marketing               Ceramics                    Management         |pr Ion
'rraint      S et                'f~~~~r ininECnr               Accnuntineai                                  Secreta
|UN/ IO E ert           UNJILO Ex ert           Danida nx*rt         |           IL  Ex_ r                  ar__
Tannery and            Metal Engineerin         Woodworking               Textiles & Ready
I  eathex-work Estate  Estate     ~      ~         e               LMade Carments
-~ _______   Officer________.__ /   2N/UNtDOfficers   __ 2_ OffllNic icers s              Offic
.B.ildvisor                                                                                              _ Foundryg_ Industrial  1.  Managing Director of SEDCO  also serves as Principal
!   ODAExpet              _ _IJNIO Exprt  tEnginerin                                                            for SEPO.
!--    ~  ~    ~ -  -DA   Expert  o}             /   {Assoc                  .'2.                                HARD   LINES   represent    Swaziland   Government     lines
3.  BROKEN LINES represent UN and other bilateral and
-------------------------                       ~~~experts' lines of responsibility.
UN Experts             7
SEPO Counterparts     10
SEDCO Staff            2
TOTAL               19
EAPID
March 1977
0  .J



THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
POST-ACQUISITION ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Doard of
fDirectors
0 Managing                                U _  TfUNDP Project
Director                                  Manager
{  pratios
Special                 Small Scale                Instrial                    Training      UNDP and
Pir-oJects              Credit Scheme )           L Estates    |                 and         Bilateral
Extension    Experts
Notes:  1.  Broken lines refer to UNDP/Bilateral experts' line of responsibility
2. Administration Legal, Financial control and credit appraisal services
will be provided by NIDCS.
ax z
a x
EAPID
March 1977                                                                                                          r



ANNEK 18
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
SUMMARIZED INCOME STATEMENTS (AUDITED)
(E OOOs)
INCOME                                           1973    1974    1975    1976
Interest Income                                  12      -        15      25
Rental & Other Income (Estates)                  22      21       23      33
Other                                             8       1        2      -
42      22      40       58
E%PENSES
Administrative Expenses on Estates
(including depreciation)                       24      25      30       37
Other Administrative &penses                     57      27       34      38
Interest & Bank Charges                           5       5        3      -
Bad debts written off                             3        3      32      10
89      60      99       85
Gross Operating Profit (loss)                     (47)    (38)    (59)    (27)
Provision for Bad Debts                          (139)    (59)      -       10
Net Profit (loss)                                (186)    (97)    (59)    (37)
Government Grants                                  22       39     229      65
Surplus (deficit) Carried forward                (164)    (58)    170       28
lJ For the 21 months July 1, 1971 to March 31, 1973
/ For the 12 months ending March 31st.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEETS (AUDITED)
(E  I00S)
As at March 31                                     1973    1974    1975    1976
ASSETS
Current Assets
Debtors (less Provisions)                        135     108      44       22
Others                                             1      12    224      214
136     120    268      236
Loans to Associated Companies                     -        50     24       32
Investment in Tall oil division                  106     -        36     105
Other unquoted investments                        21       21      6        6
127      71      66     143
Fixed Assets (net)
Land and Buildings                               167      173    195      253
Others                                             2        1      2       24
169     174    197      277
Total Assets                                     432      365    531     656
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Creditors                                        105      17      21       17
Others                                           113       32     13       -
218      49      3       17
British Aid Loan                                 380      380    391      459
Total Liabilities                      598      429    425      476
Equity, Grants and Special Funds
Share Capital                                      2       2       2       2
Grants from Government                            22      61    290       355
Commercial loan fund (Government)                 -      160    160       160
SIDA Foundry Fund                                 -       -       -46
Total Equity & Quasi-equity             2       223    h52      563
Accumulated (losses) profits                    (190)   (287)  (346)   (383)
(166)    (64)   106      100
Total Liabilities & Equity                       432     365    531      656
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED i13BALANCE SHEETS
(E 000's)
As at March 31                                   1973      1974    1975    1976
ASSETS
Current Assets                                 173      162      293     249
Unquoted Investments                            21        21       6       6
Fixed Assets (net)                             392       406     471     518
Loans to Associated Companies                   -         50      24       32
Total Assets                       5679 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                            219       43       43      19
L.T. Liabilities                               551       726     719     761
770      769     762      780
Share Capital                                    2        2        2       2
Grants and Special Funds                        -       160      160     206
2      16      162      208
Accumulated (losses) profits                  (186)    (292)   (130)   (183)
(184)    (130)     32       25
586      639     794      805
3J Consolidated with the accounts of the Tall oil division
EAPID
March 1977



AEX 21
Page 1 Of 3
THE  14ALL ENTERPRISES DIV EHPOiENT COMANY
PROJECTED INVESTKENTS AND ASSMIPTIONS FOR
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        Projected Investments (E 000's)
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981
Fixed Assets
Industrial Estates                         120    150     150      -        -
Joint Venture Projects                     154    100l-
Equipment and Tools                         50     30      --               -
Sab-total                            324    280     150      -       -
SSE Credit Scheme                               75    120     150     200     200
399    400     300     200     200
Others
Overseas Training                           20     30      30       30      30
Marketing Assistance                        30     30      30       30      30
Bookkeeping Service                         -      20      20       -       -
Research Section                            -      4 0     40
Building Section                             5      5       5               -
Sub-total                                                           60
Total                               454    525     425     260     260
Details
(i)   Industrial Btates:  the projected investments are for expansion
of SEDCO s existing nine industrial estates and for the construction of a new
estate at Mutjane, 15 kilometers north of Mbabane.
(ii) Joint venture projects: these are projects to be financed by the
Swedish Government for the training of Swazi entrepreneurs. The projects
under consideration are ruler manufacturing and glass manufacturing.
(iii) B,uipment and Tools: Proposed investment would add to the equipment
and loose tools pool available for rental to Swazi entrepreneurs.
(iv) SSE,Credit Scheme:  the amounts represent projected conmitments
of loans to small enterprises.
(v)  Overseas Training for SFDCO Staff:  to supplement on-the-job training
for SEDCO's local counterpart professional staff, it is intended to send them to
fellowships overseas entailing programs designed to meet their specific needs.



'ANM 21
Page 2 of 3
(vi)    Marketing Assistance Sections  the budgeted investments will be
used by members of the marketing section to exhibit products of SE100-assisted
entrepreneurs at one major international trade fair each year.
(vii)   Bookkeeping Service:  the projected investment will be used to
establish a special section within SEDCO's Management Accounting advisory
unit, to pr,ovide bookkeeping services to SEDCO assisted entrepreneurs.
(viii) Research Section: SEDCO plans to establish a unit to conduct
research into development of new and improved products for small enterprises
to manufacture.  The amount projected here will be used for equipnent, materials
and salaries.
(ix)    Building Section:  the projected investments will be used for
equipment and training materials for the building section.
2.        Income
Interest           : 8% p.a. on loans granted in 1977 10% p.a. on loans granted
from 1978-1981
Rent               : 10% p.a. on original cost of development of infrastructure
and buildings.
Purchasing Service:  Income increases by E2,000 p.a. on 1976 base of ElO,O00
Other              : 5% of interest rental and purchasing service incomes
3.        Expenses
Interest Charges  : 9% p.a. on average outstanding balance of IBRD loan.
Estates Expenses  :  (a)  Depreciation is 2 1/2% p.a. on buildings
(b)  Salaries and Wages increase )y 10% p.a. on 1976 base
of E 13,000
(c)  Repairs and maintenance are 2 112% p.a. on original
cost of buildings
(d) Other expenses increase by 10 p.a.on 1976 base of
E 14,000.
Administration of SSE Credit Scheme
(a)  Salaries and wages are E 25,000 in 1977; E 30,000 in
1978 and increase by 5% p.a. thereafter.
(b) Other expenses increase by 10% p.a. on 1976 base of
E 6,000.
Provisions         : 10% of annual disbursements under SSE credit scheme.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
4.          Resources
Loans           E260,000 from IBRD to be committed for SSE Credit Scheme for 1978
and 1979. Repayment over 10 years with 4 years grace.
E420,000 from British Government.  Interest free and repayable
over 25 years with 7 years moratorium. To be used for building
and expansion of industrial estates.
E 80,000 from the Danish Government (DANIDA) to be used for
purchasing of equipment and tools for rental. Interest free
with repayment over 35 years with 10 year moratorium.
Grants         E254,000 from the Swedish Government (SIDA) for special joint
venture projects.
E142,000 from the Swaziland Government for onlending under the
SSE credit scheme (1977-1981)
E675,000 from the Swaziland Government to finance training and
technical assistance activities (1977-1981)
5.          Other Assumptions
Disbursement of SSE Loans       : 80% in year approved, 20% in following year.
Repayment of SSE Loans             loans outstanding as at 31st March 1976:  over
three years.
New Loans: average of five years with a one
year moratorium.
Loans to Associated Companies    Balance outstanding at 31st March, 1976 will be
repaid over 4 years.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
PROJECTED INCOME & EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS
(E 000's)
Year ending March 31                    1977      1978      1979     1980      1981
A.  Income (loss) on Credit Scheme
1.  Interest Income                       10        17        23       33        44
2.  Less:  Interest Charges               -          2         7       13        19
3.         Provisions                      8        10        14       19        20
4.  Net Income (loss)                      2         5         2        1         5
B.  Income (loss) on Industrial Estates
1.  Rental Income                         39        54        69       69        69
2.  Purchasing Service Income             10        12        14       16        18
49       66       893       85        8~7
3.  Less Depreciation                     10        14        17       17        17
4.  Administrative Expenses               40        46        53       53        53
5.  Net Income (loss)                     (1)        6        13       15        17
C.  Other Income                                3        4         5         6        7
D.  Total Income (loss) on Commercial
Operations A4 + B5 + C                     4        15        20       22        29
E.  Administrative Expenses of Credit
Scheme                                    31        37        39       42        45
F.  Net income (loss) D + E                   (27)     (22)      (19)      (20)     (16)
NOTE:
The Government of Swaziland will pay directly for the annual operating expenditures
of the training and technical assistance schemes. The expenditures are expected
to average about E50,000 per annum over the 5 year period, and are not
reflected in these financial projections.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(E 000's)
Actual                   Projected
As at March 31                       1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981
ASSETS
Net Current Assets               197       158       220      266       266       266
Portfolio
SSE Credits Outstanding          111       149      193       266       393       492
Less:  Provisions                (89)      (97)    (107)    (121)    (140)    (160)
22       52        86       145      253       332
Loans to Associated Companies   32          24        16        8       -         -
Unquoted Investments             111       111       111      111       111       111
165      187       213       264      364       443
Fixed Assets
Land & Buildings (Net)           253       363      499       632       615       598
Others                            24        74      104       104       104       104
277      437       603       736      719       702
Total Assets                          639       782    1,036    1,266    1,349    1,411
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
L.T. Liabilities
U.K. Government                  459       579      729       879       879      879
NIDCS/IBRD                       -         -         48       117       179      244
DANIDA                           -          50       80        80        80       80
459      629       857    1,076    1,138    1,203
EQUITY, GRANTS & SPECIAL FUNDS
Share Capital                      2         2        2         2         2        2
Government Grants                515       515      563       593       634      647
SIDA Grants                       46        46       46        46       46        46
563      563       611      64        682       695
Accumulated Surplus(Deficits) (383)    (410)    (432)    (451)    (471)    (487)
180      153       179      190       211       208
639      782    1,036    1,266    1,349    1,411
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(E 000's)
Year Ending March 31                            1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
SOURCES
Cash from Operations                                   2        12       16        21
Drawdown on IBRD Loan                      -          48        69       62        65
UK Government Loan                         120       150       150     --         -
Swazi Government Grants                    -          48        30       41        13
DANIDA Loan                                 50        30      -         -         -
Collection of SSE Loans                     37        52        71       63       101
Loans to Associated Companies                8         8         8        8
215      338       340      190       200
USES'
Operating Cash Deficits                      9       -        -         -         -
Disbursements of SSE Loans                  75        96      144       190       200
Investment in Industrial Estates
and Tools            170       180      150       -        -
254      276                190 294   200
Net Cash Flow                              (39)       62        46      -         -
NOTE:
This statement excludes cash inflows from SIDA grants and special Swazi
Government grants which are used for special joint venture projects
and for development of new training and technical assistance schemes.
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 25
Page I of 1
THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR CREDIT SCHEME
(E 000's)
Year ending March 31                              1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
INFLOWS
Drawdown on IBRD Loan                       -         48        69        62       65
Drawdown on Government Grants               -         48        30        41       23
Collection of Loans                         37        52        71       63       101
Interest Income                             10        17        23       33        44
47      165       193       199       233
OUTFLOWS
Loan Disbursements                          75        96       144      190       200
Interest Charges on IBRD Loan               -          2         7       13        19
75       98       151       203      219
Net Cash Flow                              (28)       67        42        (4)      14
Cumulative Cash Flow                       (28)       39        81       77        91
EAPID
March 1977



ANNEX 26
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year and  Quarter                                 Cumulative Disbursements at
at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1978                                                          NIDCS      SEDCO      TOTAL
March 31, 1978                                                  400         55       455
June 30, 1978                                                   900        75        975
1979
September 30, 1978                                           1,400         95      1,495
December 31, 1978                                            1,900        115      2,015
March 31, 1979                                               2,400        135      2,535
June 30, 1979                                                2,800        150      2,950
1980
September 30, 1979                                           3,181        169      3,350
December 31, 1979                                            3,562        188      3,750
March 31, 1980                                               3,944        206      4,150
June 30, 1980                                                4,225        225      4,450
1981
September 30, 1980                                           4,356        244      4,600
December 31, 1980                                            4,487        263      4,750
March 31, 1981                                               4,594         281     4,875
June 30, 1981                                                4,700        300      5,000
EAPID
March 1977



