Document of
The WorWd B~ank
III1DLE  t03fp\VIj          1FO]a OIFIFFIIIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1990-SW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
April 8, 1977
This document h  n restricted distribution and mny be used by recipients only in the perfornmance of
their oTScial duies. Ets contents umny noe otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currenty Units             =     emalangeni (E) or rand (R) 1/ (E=R)
US$1000                          E 087
E lo00                     -     US$1015
ABBREVIATIONS
NIDCS                            National Industrial Development Corporation
of Swaziland
SEDCO                            Small Enterprises Development Company
SSE                        =     Small Scale Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
NIDCS                            April 1 - March 31
SEDCO                            April 1 - March 31
Government                       April 1 - March 31
1/ The lilangeni (plo emalangeni) was introduced as the local
currency in September 1974; the rand is also legal tender
in Swasiland.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO ThE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
(NIDCS) with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Swaziland for the equivalent
of US$5.0 million to help finance the foreign expenditure component of
loans and investments made by NIDCS. The loan would bear interest at
8.2 percent per annum and the repayment would conform substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans
made pursuant to this loan.  The maximum repayment period would be 17
years. NIDCS would relend US$0.3 million to its subsidiary, the Small
Enterprises Development Company (SEDCO) to help finance the foreign expend-
iture component of SEDCO's loans for small-scale enterprises. SEDCO would
repay its loan to NIDCS over 10 years including 4 years grace at an interest
rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Swaziland" (No. 852a-SW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 24, 1975. A special mission visited the country in September 1976
as part of a study on regional migration in southern Africa. An updating
economic mission is scheduled to visit Swaziland in August 1977. Country
data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Swaziland is one of the smallest countries on the African continent.
Located in southern Africa, it is surrounded by the Republics of South Africa
and Mozambique. In 1976, its population was estimated at 525,000 (of which
approximately 29,000 live abroad, mainly as migrant workers in South Africa)
with a growth rate of about 3.2 percent per annum. Relative to its size
and population, the country is well endowed with natural resources and has
good potential for development. It has some mineral deposits (of which iron
ore is nearing depletion) and its soil and climate are favorable to diver-
sified agricultural production.
4.        The economy is highly dualistic and almost half the land is owned
by foreigners. The modern sector, which is largely foreign owned, consists
of mining (asbestos, iron ore, coal), large-scale plantations of forestry,
sugar, citrus and pineapples, and associated industries such as pulp, saw-
milling, sugar and fruit processing. The traditional sector, on the other
hand, is based largely on cattle raising and subsistence agriculture (maize,
groundnuts, sorghum) which directly supports about one-half of the population.
5.        This economic dualism is to some extent a reflection of the Govern-
ment structure. The King rules the modern Government through an appointed
Cabinet of Ministers who manage the country's normal economic activities and
provide the bulk of services to the people. However, in traditional matters
Thi docum.ni hm a rrctd distribution ad my be vsd by recipimnts only in the performance
of tbolr olFc dutb. Is emo- may not otherwi be dislosed without World Bank avthorltbon.



- 2 -
and over all activities concerning Swazi Nation land (this term refers to
about 60 percent of the territory of Swaziland which is held communally
for the Swazi people by the King), the King relies on the advice of the
Swazi National Council, a group of senior Swazi chiefs and leaders.
When the modern Government becomes involved in developing the Swazi Nation
land's agricultural and mineral resources, considerable deliberations by
both the Cabinet and the Council are required. Consequently, economic
change has been slow on Swazi Nation land in contrast to the modern agri-
cultural sector's rapid development.
6.        The Swazi economy has a good growth record.    During the 1950s and
1960s, the modern sector developed rapidly; real GDP grew at about 12 percent
a year.   Apart from tourism, no major new industries have been established
since independence in 1968; however, expansion of existing enterprises and the
Government sector, together with a growing number of smaller enterprises,
sustained real growth in GDP at about 7 percent a year between 1968 and 1975.
Because of favorable terms of trade, particularly in the last few years, real
income grew even faster (9 percent a year). At current prices, GNP per capita
was estimated at about US$470 in 1975. GDP is projected to grow at about
6 percent a year up to 1980, based mainly on expanding agricultural exports
(sugar, citrus, woodpulp, beef) whose markets are expected to remain generally
favorable over the next several years.
7.        The country's sustained economic growth has been due mainly to
private investment. Since 1968, gross private investment has averaged about
19 percent of GDP and Government capital expenditures about 7 percent. As
Swazi entrepreneurship was, and still is, quite limited, almost all modern
activities have been carried out by foreign companies, under foreign manage-
ment, and with foreign capital. This development pattern has actually sharpened
the dualism in the Swazi society and economy which the Government inherited at
independence. The modern sector now contributes about 80 percent of GDP and
wage employment and 90 percent of direct taxes. The main sector, agriculture
and forestry, accounts for close to 35 percent of GDP and 40 percent of total
wage employment, while manufacturing contributes 15 percent and 12 percent,
respectively. The traditional rural sector, which accounts for about 14
percent of GDP, has remained virtually stagnant over the years. Because wage
employment in the modern sector grew at over 10 percent a year during the
1960s, the labor force in traditional agriculture declined from 72 percent in
1960 to about 50 percent in 1974.
8.        Swaziland's Second National Development Plan (1973-77) emphasizes
four main objectives:   (1) to create conditions for sustained private sector
growth; (2) to promote rural development and modernize traditional agriculture;
(3) to improve the relevance and usefulness of education; and (4) to provide
better housing and health conditions for low-income families in urban and
rural areas. Planned allocations to the main sectors are: infrastructure
29 percent; agriculture and forest 19 percent; community services 19 percent;
education and health 14 percent. The Government realizes that most of the
momentum in the economy will be generated by the modern sector; nevertheless
it is committed to assisting the majority of the population who remain in the



- 3 -
traditional sector, and who have not sufficiently shared the benefits of
Swaziland's growth. The main strategy for traditional sector development
is through integrated rural development areas (RDAs). Shortages of technical
and management personnel have limited implementation, but in the northern
area, where substantial inputs have been concentrated, increases in yields
of a number of crops as well as farmers' incomes have been encouraging.
The Third National Development Plan (1978-82), currently under preparation,
is expected to emphasize agricultural, educational and industrial development.
9.        Since 1971, owing to the sharp increase in mining wages in the
Republic of South Africa, the number of Swazis recruited for mining
employment doubled. At the same time, there is a shortage of labor for
domestic modern agriculture (in particular, the sugar plantations) and of
skilled Swazis for the modern non-agricultural sector. The Government's
long-term education policy aims to alleviate this problem, through restructur-
ing the educational system and emphasizing vocational and technical rather
than academic training. Programs, assisted by the Bank (para. 15), already
are underway to expand technical institutions and accelerate curriculum
reform, particularly to better serve rural development.
10.       Together with Botswana, Lesotho and South Africa, Swaziland belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union. Under this arrangement, Swaziland
draws *:ustoms and excise revenue from a common revenue pool according to the
value of its total imports and production of taxable goods. Swaziland also
belongs, along with Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa, to the Rand
Monetary Area. In September 1974, Swaziland issued its own national currency,
the emalangeni (E) with the same per value as the rand; both currencies are
legal tender in Swaziland. A Monetary Authority manages the country's new
monetary system. In order to remain in the Rand Monetary Area and be able to
continue drawing on its foreign exchange reserves, Swaziland has agreed to main-
tain 100 percent of the value of the emalangeni in circulation in a rand account
with the South African Reserve Bank. This requirement, as well as the free
convertibility of the two currencies, limits somewhat the scope for credit
management by the Monetary Authority.
11.       Government finances have improved significantly since 1969 when
the revision of the Customs Union Agreement substantially increased revenues
and eliminated the Government's chronic budget deficits. At the same time,
the Government strengthened the tax administration and introduced new taxes
(in particular, the hotel tax and sugar levy). As a result, recurrent revenue
increased from E 8.5 milion in 1967/68 to E 42 million in 1974/75. Cor-
respondingly, recurrent expenditures grew from E 13 million to E 24.8 million.
A recent revision of the revenue distribution formula of the Customs Union
Agreement should help maintain, the Government's favorable financial position
over the next several years, even though revenues under the sugar levy are
expected to decline.
12.       Swaziland's membership in the Rand Monetary Area has meant ready
access to the Area's exchange reserves; in turn this has made consideration



- 4 -
of Swaziland's foreign exchange and balance of payments matters not of much
practical significance since the Area has benefited from sizeable foreign
exchange surpluses. In view of the current difficult economic situation
facing the Republic of South Africa, the major partner in the Rand Monetary
Area, it is important to examine Swaziland's external trade situation in the
eventuality that Swaziland withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area. As regards
merchandise trade, exports have increased from US$39 million in 1968 to about
US$174 million in 1975, largely as a result of increased production and
favorable prices on world markets of sugar and forestry products which account
for 60 percent of total export value. At the same time, imports have increased
less rapidly, from US$51 million to US$124 million, with the result that
Swaziland has for many years enjoyed a favorable balance of merchandise trade.
As the country sells about 70 percent of its exports to Europe, North America
and Japan, and imports about 90 percent of its requirements from the Republic
of South Africa, it has been a substantial net earner of foreign exchange for
the Rand Monetary Area. Swaziland should be able to maintain a favorable trade
balance in the event it withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area.
13.       Until 1975, the United Kingdom was the major source of foreign
financial assistance, providing funds to cover Swaziland's budget deficits
as well as grants and long-term interest-free loans for development. During
the last few years, however, Swaziland has diversified its sources of foreign
assistance. Several national agencies as well as multilateral lenders
contribute to financing the Government's capital budget. Because of
the slow buildup of absorptive capacity, the utilization of foreign
assistance following independence has been sluggish. A substantial
technical assistance program is now in place, and recent experience
suggests that the country's absorptive capacity is improving, as local
staff benefit from training and experience.
14.       On December 31, 1975, Swaziland's external public debt (disbursed
and outstanding) was US$46.3 million; service obligations on this debt amounted
to US$1.8 million in 1975. Swaziland's future external public debt (including
undisbursed) is expected to increase to some US$250 million by 1985 and annual
debt service obligations will be about US$15 million, or less than 10 percent
of estimated exports in 1985. Since the Government is able to draw on the
foreign exchange earnings of the Rand Monetary Area, the debt service ratio
expressed as a percentage of exports is mainly an indicator of Swaziland's
external debt carrying capacity if the country were to withdraw from the
Rand Monetary Area. A more useful indicator of the Government's current
debt service capacity is the ratio of debt service payments to Government
revenue. In 1975, servicing of existing public debt represented 3 percent of
current Government revenue; by 1985, we estimate this would increase to 6 percent
and should not create an unmanageable burden on the country's finances.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
15.       There have been seven Bank Group credits and loans to Swaziland, of
which three were before independence. An IDA credit of US$2.8 million,
approved in 1962, helped finance the construction of the first highway project.
Two loans, one for US$4.2 million in 1963 and the other for US$2.75 million
in 1967, were made to assist the Swaziland Electricity Board in the development



- 5 -
of the power sector. All three projects have been completed satisfactorily.
No loans or credits were made between 1968 and 1974; an irrigation project
was appraised during that period but was found uneconomic. Following in-
tensified preparation work, three projects were approved by the Board in
FY75: a US$5.0 million credit for an education project designed to strengthen
vocational, technical, commercial and rural education programs; a US$3.5
million loan to extend the water supply and sewerage facilities in the
Mbabane and Manzini areas; and a US$7.0 million loan for the second highway
project which will improve to bitumen standard two major road sections.
Implementation of all three projects is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Board approved on March 8, 1977, a US$4.0 million loan for a rural develop-
ment project which will expand the provision of agricultural services to
125,000 Swazis living in traditional areas. Loan effectiveness is expected
in June 1977.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Swaziland.
16.       Future Bank Group operations in Swaziland will continue to support
the Government's development efforts to expand the role of the Swazis in
the modern sector, and to raise the productivity and level of incomes of
those Swazis dependent on traditional agriculture. A loan proposal for a
second education project, which would improve junior secondary education
in rural areas, will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. A
third highway project is being prepared for presentation to the Executive
Directors in FY79. The project would help to improve about 100 km of
Swaziland's national highway network and would provide technical assistance
for improving the Ministry of Works' road maintenance capability. A second
rural development project is scheduled for presentation in FY80. It would
extend to new areas of Swazi Nation land the improvements in infrastructure,
extension and marketing currently being provided in the first rural develop-
ment project.
17.       Debt to the Bank as a percentage of total debt (disbursed and out-
standing) is projected to increase from 17 percent in 1975 to about 24 per-
cent in 1985. The Bank's share in total public debt service would increase
from 26 percent at present to about 34 percent in 1985. Increases in the
Bank's share of debt and debt service reflect the expectation that Swaziland
would continue to receive a significant amount of its external financial
assistance on grant or near-grant terms. Swaziland's exports and public
revenue prospects remain favorable and the country continues to be credit-
worthy for Bank lending. During the Fourth IDA Replenishment, Swaziland
has been a blend country, but due to the favorable growth in Swaziland's
economy in recent years and prospects for a continuation of this trend,
we do not at this time anticipate additional IDA lending in Swaziland. In
Swaziland's Third National Development Plan (1978-82), proposed development
expenditures will likely exceed US$200 million. The Government intends to
make a significant financial contribution to this development program and its
favorable financial prospects will enable it to do so. But the Government
also desires to build up reasonable budgetary reserves during this period
to insulate its ongoing programs from sudden reductions in Government
revenue due to external factors such as a downturn in agricultural prices or dif-
ficulties arising in the Southern Africa Customs Union or Rand Monetary



- 6 -
Area. Consequently, to complement its own resources, the Government will
seek new commitments of external aid for its Droeram in the Third National
Development Plan (1978-82) including financing for some project local costs.
This strategy appears sound, and external assistance agencies should be
prepared to finance a significant amount of total costs including some local
costs of projects having a relatively low foreign exchange content.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, TOURISM AND
THE FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Industrial Sector
18.       Swaziland's mild climate, good soils and plentiful mineral re-
sources have created a favorable environment for an industrial sector
based on the exports of minerals and processed agricultural products.
Industry accounts for about 17percent of wage employment, about 25 percent
of GDP and about 70 percent of merchandise exports. The sector provides
either directly (corporate taxes, the sugar levy) or indirectly (Customs
Union duties on imports of capital goods) more than 50 percent of Govern-
ment revenue.    The diversity of the sector, covering production in such
areas as pulp, lumber, sugar, meat processing, citrus fruits, asbestos,
iron ore and coal, has enabled Swaziland to avoid some of the serious
recent recessions experienced by other developing countries dependent on
a narrower range of products.
19.       Manufacturing accounts for the largest share of value added in
the industrial sector, contributing about 15 percent of GDP and about 12
percent of wage employment. A few large export-oriented agri-businesses
provide about 90 percent of manufactured production. There is a growing
number of medium- and small-scale manufacturing concerns which produce a
range of goods from textiles to farm implements. These businesses sell
some of their production inside Swaziland and market the rest externally.
20.       The role of mining in the industrial sector has diminished in
recent years due to a stagnation in mining output and the rapid growth in
manufacturing. Asbestos, coal and iron ore currently account for most
mineral production, but the iron ore reserves are expected to be depleted
by 1982. The country's coal reserves, estimated in excess of 600 million
tons, have not proved viable due to poor quality and relative inacces-
sibility. The Government recently commissioned feasibility studies to
determine whether it would be possible to export limited amounts of its
higher quality coal. A South African based mineral corporation has re-
ceived a Government concession to explore for diamonds and announced it
intends to open a small mine within the next year. Unless production of
coal or diamonds replaces iron ore exports, mining's share of GDP and
merchandise exports, currently 8 percent and 20 percent respectively,
will decline.



21.       The Government's industrial policy seeks to expand the industrial
base, and in particular, the Swazi participation in local enterprise and
management. At independence, the industrial sector consisted solely of
large, foreign-controlled, agro-industries and mining concerns. Given the
scarcity of trained Swazi technicians, entrepreneurs and managers, the
Government adopted a policy which provided for the continued operation of
these enterprises, though localization was encouraged. In the future,
promotion of new large-scale enterprises will be limited by the relative
scarcity of local financial resources, skilled Swazi manpower and un-
utilized agricultural land. The only major industrial project scheduled
during the Third National Development Plan (1978-82) period, an estate-sugar
mill complex, estimated to cost US$150 million, is under consideration by
a consortium of private suppliers and bilateral and multilateral lenders,
possibly including IFC, which would join the Government in the project's
financing. During the Third National Development Plan (1978-82) period, official
policy will emphasize development of small- and medium-sized, labor-intensive
enterprises which can produce for the local market as well as for exports.
The possibilities include enterprises producing textiles, clothing, electronics,
furniture, building materials and handicrafts.
Tourism
22.       Due to its scenic beauty and pleasant climate, tourism has become
one of Swaziland's fastest growing sectors with hotel visitors, mostly from
the Republic of South Africa, doubling in the last five years to the current
level of nearly 100,000 per annum. Correspondingly, the number of hotel beds
available increased from about 900 in 1969 to 1,550 in 1973, a growth rate of
15 percent per annum. In 1973, tourism provided direct employment for about
1,500 Swazis or 13 percent of employment in services. To monitor developments
in the sector and formulate long-term policy, the Government established the
Swaziland Tourism Development Board in 1974. Continued growth in tourism is
expected during the Third National Development Plan (1978-82) period.
Financial Environment
23.       To support its industrial and tourism sectors,
Swaziland has a diversified financial system. In 1974,
Swaziland established a Monetary Authority to provide some control over
the local financial environments (para. 10). Since Swaziland still
belongs to the Rand Monetary Area, the Authority has limits on its powers
to influence the economy, though it has been able to set interest rates
somewhat independently of South Africa's. The recent interest rate
structure averaged about a point lower in Swaziland than South Africa
for bank deposits and lending. These rates have been sufficient to re-
tain funds in Swaziland and to stimulate local lending. The Authority can
mobilize resources through the issue of Government bonds and treasury bills,
but it cannot discount commercial paper.
24.       Swaziland's two commercial banks, Barclays and Standard, both
British based institutions, were incorporated locally in 1974 with the
Government holding 40 percent of the shares. The banks are subject to
minimum capital and liquid assets requirements and supervision by the
Monetary Authority. They are mostly involved in providing short-term
seasonal finance to large agro-businesses and commercial farmers. Because
of the seasonal cycle of their lending these banks often have large
surpluses in their liquid assets which they invest in South Africa's



- 8 -
short-term money market. The commercial banks, while successful in
mobilizing local savings, have not provided medium- or long-term fi-
nancing for industrial enterprises.
25.       To provide financing for the moderr. sector and to assist small
Swazi agriculturalists and entrepreneurs, the Government has set up an
array of financial institutions: the Swaziland Commercial Board,
the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank, the National Industrial Development
Corporation of Swaziland (NIDCS), and the Small Enterprises Development
Company (SEDCO). The Commercial Board, established in 1975, with an authorized
capital of E 3 million, lends to Swazi-owned commercial enterprises, but its
operations to date have not been significant. The Savings Bank raises
resources through its share capital, long-term loans and through savings
accounts held by the public; as of mid-1976, it had deposits of
E 15.3 million and loans of E 3.3 million from the Swaziland Government
and official bilateral sources. These resources, for the most part, are
lent short-term to commercial farmers, to the wholesale and retail trades,
and, to an increasing extent, to small rural farmers. NIDCS and SEDCO,
the primary institutions for promoting and financing medium and small
industrial enterprises, are described in Part IV of this report.
26.       Other financial institutions include the Swazi Royal Insurance
Corporation, which has a monopoly on the insurance business in Swaziland,
the National Provident Fund, established to cover all salaried employees,
and the Swazi Nation Fund, which receives royalties on mineral exports
and investments and reinvests these on behalf of all Swazis in productive
enterprises. In 1974, the Swazi Nation Fund had investments in farms and
commercial enterprises worth about US$5 million.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the National Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation of Swaziland (NIDCS) and its subsidiary, the Small Enter-
prises Development Company (SEDCO)" (No. 1422-SW, dated April 1, 1977) is
being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. The project,
which is summarized in Annex III, was appraised in August 1976. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from February 28 to March 4, 1977. The
NIDCS delegation was led by Mr. L. Sithebe, Managing Director. The
Government was represented by Mr. E.V. Sikhondze, Under-Secretary, Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning.
28.       The project would support Swaziland's industrial and tourism
development by providing financial and technical assistance to NIDCS and
SEDCO. The Government established both institutions in the early 1970s
to promote industrial development in the country through the provision of
long-term loans and equity investments to medium-size enterprises (NIDCS)
and through provision of financial and technical assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SEDCO). As part of the Government's policy to encourage the
consolidation of financial institutions, SEDCO became a subsidiary of NIDCS
in 1976. Both institutions share common facilities where feasible (finance,
accounting, legal and appraisal), but each retains its own identity.



- 9 -
The National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
29.       NIDCS was established as a tax-exempt statutory corporation
in May 1971 to promote and assist private investment in industrial,
commercial, agricultural and mining enterprises. It can subscribe to
equity investment, provide loans or guarantees and invest directly in
factories and buildings for lease to investors. From the beginning, the
principal constraint on NIDCS' operations was inadequate manpower.
With only a small expatriate staff, NIDCS was not equipped to adequately
appraise, implement and supervise all projects submitted to it. In the
period since the first Bank mission visited NIDCS in 1973, NIDCS has made
substantial progress in resolving its staffing problems. NIDCS now
operates according to sound procedures and with a staff that is adequate
both in quality and size.
30.       Policy Statement.   NIDCS recently adopted a revised Policy
Statement incorporating suggestions made by the Bank. In addition to
general provisions which require NIDCS to invest in technically sound
and financially and economically viable projects, it also: (i) permits
NIDCS to finance tourism projects but restricts commercial financing
because funds for such activities are available from other sources; (ii)
limits NIDCS' investment in any one project to 60 percent of the project's
total cost, including buildings and working capital; (iii) precludes NIDCS
from assuming foreign exchange risk on its foreign borrowing, and (iv)
states NIDCS' intention to localize staff as soon as feasible.
31.       Share Capital.  NIDCS has an authorized share capital of E 10.0
million consisting of 100,000 Ordinary A shares (100 votes each) issuable
only to the Government and 9,900,000 Ordinary B shares (one vote each)
which have no issuance restrictions. The Government is the majority
shareholder controlling 95 percent of the voting stock. Barclays and
Standard banks are minority shareholders with 50,000 Ordinary B shares
each.
32.       Operating Procedures.   Due to its poor staffing situation in
the past, NIDCS has at times operated with informal procedures. In some
cases, corporate officers were given responsibility for major areas in
which they were not professionally qualified, in other cases legal agree-
ments were not always prepared for NIDCS' loans. An adequate appraisal
manual existed but was not followed, and there was no regular system for
project disbursement and supervision. Recent staff improvements have
enabled NIDCS' management to prepare new supervision and financial control
manuals. All legal agreements on existing investments have been completed
and in the future no disbursements will take place without them. NIDCS'
general operating procedures appear adequate, and should minimize future
operational problems.



- 10 -
33.       Interest Rates and Other Charges.   In the past NIDCS' interest
rates have ranged from 10 percent to ll percent per annum, but henceforth
NIDCS will charge a minimum rate of 12.0 percent per annum on all loans
(Section 3.02(a), Loan Agreement). This rate is consistent with those
prevailing in the region and should provide NIDCS with an adequate spread
on its funds. With regard to sub-loans and investments which are made out
of the proceeds of the proposed loan, the Government has agreed to assume
the foreign exchange risk for a fee of one percent per annum (Section 3.02,
Guarantee Agreement). In the case of sub-loans, NIDCS will charge this fee
to its borrowers and remit the proceeds to the Government (Section 3.02(b)
and (c), Loan Agreement). NIDCS also charges rent on the factory buildings
which it has constructed to promote industrial projects. The current rate
equals about 13 percent per annum of the development costs. NIDCS reviews
its rent charges periodically to ensure that they are sufficient to cover
capital costs, insurance and maintenance and to provide NIDCS with a
reasonable return on its investment.
34.       Board of Directors.   NIDCS' Board is limited by its Act to nine
members. The Minister of Industry, Mines and Tourism can appoint five Board
Directors including the Chairman. Previous Chairmen of NIDCS' Board have
been Government civil servants, but their limited time and lack of expertise
in the private sector have reduced their effectiveness on the Board. The
Government recently appointed a Swazi businessman to be NIDCS' new Board
Chairman. His experience in the private sector should enable NIDCS' Board
to bring stronger leadership to the affairs of the Corporation.
35.       Management and Staff.   In NIDCS' first years a rapid turnover in
Managing Directors adversely affected its management capability. With
the appointment of the Director of Research of the East African Development
Bank as Managing Director in 1973, a period of management stability followed
which has continued to the present. The Government recently appointed a
Swazi to be the new Managing Director, with the former Managing Director
serving as an advisor until mid-1977 when his contract expires. The new
Managing Director, a former Under-Secretary in the Ministry of Industry,
Mines and Tourism, is well-acquainted with NIDCS from his prior experience
on NIDCS' Board. NIDCS' professional staff has increased in the last 12 months
from six to sixteen of which nine are Swazis. NIDCS has developed a satis-
factory program to train local staff, but the current limited availability
of Swazis with business or financial experience will require NIDCS over the
next few years to rely on expatriates for the senior technical staff jobs
(Chief of Operations, Financial Controller). NIDCS has agreed to consult
with the Bank on future appointments to the positions of Managing Director
and Chief of Operations (Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
36.       Organization.  NIDCS' organization is straightforward; three
divisions reporting to the Chief of Operations are responsible for pre-
paring, appraising and supervising loans and investments. Four support
departments for administration, legal, finance and accounting, and property
and building supervision report to the Managing Director; these support
departments and the appraisal division will also provide assistance to SEDCO.



- 11 -
37.       Past Operations.  In its five years of operations to mid-1976,
NIDCS approved 54 investments (equity, loans, factory buildings and guar-
antees) in 33 projects totaling E 6.6 million. Its loans and investments
supported a diverse group of enterprises from television assembly and print-
ing plants to manufacturers of animal feed, textile goods, furniture pro-
ducts and packaging materials. NIDCS has not provided finance for any of
the large mining companies or agro-businesses which dominate the industrial
sector since their financial requirements far exceed NIDCS' capabilities
and most (as subsidiaries of multinational corporations) have access to
external capital. NIDCS has approved 18 equity investments for E 1.2
million; the largest investment, E 500,000, was made in a maize milling
and general trading enterprise. Excluding some token investments, its
average equity investment has been about E 50,000. As of mid-1976,
NIDCS had approved 15 loans for E 2.9 million. Although NIDCS' loans have
averaged about E 200,000 about half have been for less than E 75,000.
Repayment periods have ranged from three to ten years. To promote invest-
ment and to eliminate delays which foreign investors would experience in
attempting to purchase land, NIDCS has invested E 2.1 million in factory
buildings for lease to enterprises. In addition, NIDCS has
extended 3 guarantees to entrepreneurs to facilitate access to other
sources of capital; as of mid-1976, these guarantees amounted to
E 0.4 million.
38.       Investment Portfolio.   As of mid-1976, about 85 percent
of NIDCS' equity investments were in companies operating profitably. Its
18 factory buildings, which are well constructed and located at convenient
sites, also were profitably leased. Compared to its investments and
leasing operations, NIDCS' loan portfolio was of poorer quality with only
38 percent of outstanding loans in profitable companies. Two companies,
accounting for 38 percent of the portfolio, were in liquidation. One, a
large textile enterprise which intended to relocate from South Africa to
Swaziland, received a loan of E 1 million (the largest NIDCS has made)
and an investment of E 50,000 in equity. The enterprise failed when its
accumulation of excessive inventories was followed by a collapse in
regional textile prices.  NIDCS made full provisions against this loan
and has written it off together with the equity investment. The second
company in liquidation, a chemical manufacturer, received a loan of
E 67,000. NIDCS has provided fully against this loan and hopes to recover
the amount through litigation which is still in progress.
39.       Profitability and Financial Situation.   Dividends from NIDCS'
equity investments have been the major source of its income, accounting
for about 50 percent of total income over 1974-76. Most come from its
investments in two companies belonging to Kirsh Industries Ltd., a group
which controls much of Swaziland's milling and trading. NIDCS has generated
enough income from its financial operations to cover administrative expenses
and interest charges which are its principal expense items. In 1974 and
1975, NIDCS recorded profits of 12.7 percent and 6.8 percent respectively
on its average equity, but in 1976, as a result of a substantial provision



- 12 -
of E 1.3 million, of which most was for the textile project, it recorded
a net loss of E 1.1 million. This loss also reduced NIDCS' net worth
(mid-1976) as paid-in share capital declined from E 2.1 million to
E 0.8 million in order to provide for accumulated losses. However, the
reduction in the Corporation's net worth has not unduly strained its
debt-equity structure. As of mid-1976, total equity (share capital
plus Government grants) equaled E 1.1 million and term debts came to
E 2.9 million, giving a debt equity ratio of 2.6:1. Since mid-1976,
NIDCS has received an equity contribution of about E 1.0 million in cash
from the Government, offsetting the loss incurred in the textile project
and improving NIDCS' liquidity and debt-equity position. The Government
also has converted to equity about E 2.0 million of its outstanding loans
to NIDCS. Consequently, NIDCS' equity is now about E 4.0 million and its
debt-equity ratio is below 2:1. In order to maintain a sound financial
base for its operations, NIDCS has agreed that its debt-equity ratio will
not exceed 3:1 (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement). For purposes of calculat-
ing NIDCS' debt-equity ratio, it was agreed to exclude consideration of
SEDCO as it is a specialized non-profit institution involved in the pro-
motion of small-scale enterprises and, reflecting its requirements and
purposes, has a small equity base and a relatively large debt in the form
of Government loans and official bilateral borrowings (Section 4.06(f),
Loan Agreement). NIDCS, however, will limit SEDCO's outstanding long-term
debt to E 1.5 million and will review this limit with the Bank from time
to time.
40.       Future Operations.   In FY77, NIDCS expects to approve a total of
E 3.2 million in loans and investments with this level gradually increasing
to E 5.9 million in FY81. Most financing will be for long term-loans and
factory buildings, with a few minority equity holdings. NIDCS has a full
pipeline of projects which, if implemented, would help to further diversify
the industrial sector. They include: a ceramics project to produce table-
ware, a fertilizer granulating plant, a tractor assembly plant, a bakery,
a formaldehyde plant and a sawmill. The increased level of operations
anticipated by NIDCS' management appears reasonable in view of NIDCS' larger
staff and improved procedures, and the favorable prospects for industrial
development in Swaziland. NIDCS has adopted a sound long-term strategy
calling for increased preparation of feasibility studies for presentation
to potential investment partners. The Corporation also intends to diversify
its sources of local funds by borrowing from or selling equity participations
to new institutions such as the Swazi Royal Insurance Corporation and the
National Provident Fund (para. 26).
41.       Resources Requirements.   NIDCS' resource requirements for FY78
and FY79 (expected commitment period for the proposed Bank loan) are
estimated at about E 8.9 million of which E 7.1 million would be for foreign
expenditures. The proposed Bank loan would provide US$4.7 million (E 4.1
million) to NIDCS to cover about 57 percent of estimated foreign expend-
itures; the remaining E 3.0 million would be financed by the Government
and possibly the European Investment Bank (E 1.0 million). Of the estimated
E 1.8 million in local currency requirements in FY78-79, approximately
E 0.6 million would come from NIDCS' operations and the remainder from
the Government or local sources.



- 13 -
Small Enterprises Development Company
42.       SEDCO was established in 1970 to promote and develop small-
scale Swazi-owned enterprises by providing loans, equity investments,
working facilities, machinery, equipment, raw materials and marketing
services. In 1972, SEDCO became a component of a UNDP assisted small-
scale enterprise development project which also involved creation of
the Small Enterprises Promotion Office tp provide managerial, technical
extension and training services for small entrepreneurs. Since their
activities were highly complementary, SEDCO and the Promotion Office
operated in practice as one institution. Before NIDCS acquired SEDCO in
November 1976, the Government dissolved the Promotion Office and transferred
its activities to SEDCO.
43.       Share Capital and Resources.   SEDCO has an authorized share
capital of E 5,000 of which nearly half has been issued to NIDCS. Since
the Government intended SEDCO to operate as a non-profit institution and
to be funded mainly by grants, SEDCO does not require a large equity base.
As of mid-1976, SEDCO had received grants of E 515,000 and E 46,000
from the Swaziland and Swedish Governments respectively, and an interest
free British aid loan of E 459,000. The Swaziland Government grants have
been used to finance operating deficits and small-scale enterprise
credits, the Swedish grant has financed a special foundry project and the
British loan has been used to purchase equipment and to build industrial
facilities.
44.       Policy Statement.   In October 1976, SEDCO's Board adopted a
satisfactory Policy Statement which sets specific guidelines on its
financial operations. It sets a maximum capital cost of E 50,000 on
SEDCO's projects; restricts SEDCO's normal financial involvement in any
project to 80 percent of its capital cost or E 20,000 whichever is less;
and precludes SEDCO from taking the exchange risk on foreign borrowings.
45.       Operating Procedures.   SEDCO employs adequate procedures for
selecting clients for industrial estates and determining client needs for
financial, technical and training assistance. Its appraisal procedures
have improved considerably and now include more comprehensive financing
analysis and better assessment of the borrowers' potential training and
technical assistance needs. SEDCO has charged 8 percent per annum on
small-scale enterprise loans, a rate slightly lower than the general level
in Swaziland (10-12 percent), but feasible for SEDCO since it has used
grant funds for these loans. To bring this lending rate more in line with
the general level of interest rates in Swaziland and to provide a suitable
spread on its lending activities which will be based on a blend of loan
and grant funds, SEDCO will raise its interest rate on loans to small-
scale enterprises to 10 percent per annum (Schedule 3, Loan Agreement).
SEDCO intends to adopt a new mechanism for disbursing such loans by June 1,
1977; the new mechanism, which is satisfactory, will involve the use of
the Savings Bank as a disbursing agency and will permit SEDCO to directly
disburse on these loans from its funds. SEDCO's Policy Statement prohibits
SEDCO from assuming any foreign exchange risk. Consequently, the Government
has agreed to assume without a fee the foreign exchange risk on the portion
of the loan corresponding to the SEDCO sub-loan (Section 3.02(b), Guarantee
Agreement).



- 14 -
46.       Management.   SEDCO's Managing Director and Chief of Operations
are Swazis as are 10 other professional staff, In addition there are six
expatriate technical experts and a UNDP project manager, SEDCO's staff
function smoothly and there is a satisfactory program providing on-the-job
training to local staff. SEDCO also receives administrative support from
NIDCS and in the future two project officers from NIDCS will help SEDCO
staff appraise SSE projects.
47.       Past Operations.   SEDCO's major activity has been to establish
small industrial estates for entrepreneurs, but it has also provided
loans for small enterprises and has made two equity investments. SEDCO
currently operates 8 industrial estates spread throughout Swaziland.
Sixty-five entrepreneurs specializing in wood-working, leather products,
light metal working and handicrafts are now leasing factory shells on the
estates. On its estates, SEDCO offers technical assistance, equipment
rentals and raw materials at wholesale prices. As of mid-1976, SEDCO had
advanced E 0.2 million in loans to small Swazi enterprises, mostly to
finance working capital requirements. The average loan size was E 1,200,
with interest at 8 percent and a maturity ranging from three months to five
years.  SEDCO has made two equity investments, totaling E 246,000.    One
(E 10,000) gave SEDCO 60 percent participation in a small Swazi garment
manufacturing company; the other (E 236,000) provided 50 percent ownership
in a company recently formed to take over the assets and liabilities of
SEDCO's tall oil division. This division, which is unrelated to SEDCO's
small enterprise development activities, has been under SEDCO's management
since it was transferred to it by the Government in 1972 to generate revenues
for SEDCO. The company was recently reorganized into a limited liability
company and SEDCO's partner, a pulp company, has assumed management of the
new company.
48.       Profitability.   As a result of high administrative costs, SEDCO
in the past has shown operating losses and has relied on annual Government
grants to cover its deficits. SEDCO's deficits on its lending operations
are not the result of poor financial practices, but are due to the risks
associated with SSE lending and the high cost of servicing loans which are
relatively small. Based on future projections, SEDCO's estate operations
will become self-sufficient and generate profits, but its SSE lending opera-
tions will continue to show losses due to necessarily high provisions and
high administrative expenses. Overall, annual operating losses of about
E 20,000 per annum are expected. The Government has agreed to continue to
finance the deficits (Section 3.04, Guarantee Agreement). It will also
finance directly the costs of SEDCO's training and technical assistance services.
49.       Future Operations.   SEDCO's future operations will continue to
promote small Swazi enterprises through developing small estates and provid-
ing technical assistance, equipment, credit and materials. SEDCO plans to
invest E 420,000 between FY77 and FY79 to improve its existing estates and
to develop a new estate with 24 workshop shells. Considering the existing
demand by entrepreneurs for these small factory shells, SEDCO should have no
difficulty in leasing them. SEDCO also plans to increase the amount of credits



- 15 -
extended to small enterprises from E 75,000 in FY77 to E 200,000 in FY80.
Although the potential demand for these credits is higher than SEDCO's pro-
jected lending, these conservative targets are reasonable and reflect the
necessary caution required in expanding small enterprise lending.
50.       Resource Requirements.  During FY78-79, when the proposed Bank
loan is expected to be committed, it is estimated that SEDCO will require
E 1.1 million of which E 270,000 would be for small enterprise loans. With
the proposed loan, the Bank would finance about E 260,000 (US$300,000) or
almost 100 percent of the small enterprise loan requirements, and SEDCO
would finance the remainder. SEDCO expects to obtain the additional funds
it needs for its other operations from Sweden, the United Kingdom and the
Swaziland Government.
Proposed Loan
51.       NIDCS would use US$4.7 million of the proposed loan for onlending
to enterprises, to finance the CIF cost (i.e., the price at Swaziland's border)
of imported goods, the foreign exchange cost of ancillary services, and the foreign
component of imported goods purchased locally through normal trade channels and
of civil works. NIDCS would repay the entire loan (US$5.0 million) accord-
ing to a flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortiza-
tion schedules of NIDCS' sub-loans (including the SEDCO loan) and repayment
schedule for investments. The maximum repayment period would be 17 years.
NIDCS would require the Bank's prior approval for projects using US$100,000
or more of the proposed loan., Under the free-limit provisions, projects
using less would not require the Bank's prior approval up to an aggregate
US$1.0 million (Section 2.02(a), Loan Agreement).
52.       NIDCS would onlend US$0.3 million of the proposed Bank loan to SEDCO
at the same interest rate as the Bank loan, but without any commitment fee.
Should SEDCO not require all US$0.3 million during the projected financing
period, the remainder could be used by NIDCS upon the agreement of SEDCO.
SEDCO would onlend this amount to enterprises, again to finance the CIF cost
of imported goods, the foreign exchange cost of ancillary services, and the
foreign exchange component of civil works and imported goods purchased locally
through normal trade channels. SEDCO would-repay NIDCS over a 10 year period,
including 4 years of grace. Because of the high risks involved in SEDCO's
lending, the Government would guarantee repayment to NIDCS (Section 3.03,
Guarantee Agreement). The first five small enterprise projects which SEDCO
would propose to finance from the loan would require prior approval by the
Bank (Section 2.02(a), Loan Agreement). Thereafter, SEDCO would only submit,
on a quarterly basis, a summary list of projects for which Bank reimbursement
of its financing is required.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
53.       At independence, Swaziland's industrial sector provided limited
opportunities for the development of Swazi entrepreneurs and businessmen.
The modern, capital-intensive nature of the few large-scale enterprises re-
quired expatriate management; moreover, their size and technical sophistica-
tion made it unlikely that they would prove suitable for training Swazi
entrepreneurs. The Government adopted a policy soon after independence of
promoting medium-size and small-scale enterprises to bridge the gap which
existed between the rural sector and the few large agro-industries and mining



- 16 -
ventures. The goal was to attract foreign investment to help diversify the
sector and to develop Swazi entrepreneurial talent and business skills with
a long range view of providing local management for all of Swaziland's in-
dustrial enterprises. To further this objective, the Government established
NIDCS and SEDCO to promote and develop medium-size and small-scale enterprises.
In their early years, both suffered from organizational problems and NIDCS, in
particular, from manpower shortages, and this in turn affected their capability
to identify, develop and supervise projects. These problems gradually are
being overcome and significant improvements in both institutions have been
accomplished recently. Both have investment programs which, if well imple-
mented and supervised, would contribute to the country's overall industrial
development and diversification and, in particular, to the development of
Swazi enterprise. The proposed loan would provide part of the resources
which they need to carry out these programs.
54.       An important project benefit would be the Bank's continued assistance
to NIDCS and SEDCO. During project preparation, the Bank provided policy and
procedural advice to both institutions; each now has formulated a policy state-
ment which provides guidance for future operations, and each has developed
operational and financial manuals for evaluation and supervision of projects.
Future assistance would enable NIDCS and SEDCO to further strengthen their
procedures and to increase their ability to identify investment opportunities.
Continued improvement in NIDCS' and SEDCO's policies and operations, par-
ticularly in the areas of management, resource allocation and financial dis-
cipline, should lead to a reduction in their dependence on Government financing
and eventually enable them to generate their own investment resources.
55.       The project's risks lie mostly in the quality of SEDCO's and NIDCS'
management. The addition of qualified staff and increased emphasis on ade-
quate appraisal and supervision should enable NIDCS to improve the quality
of its operations and the return of its investments. SEDCO, however, will
continue to invest in small enterprises which normally have a high rate of
failure. It will seek to minimize such losses by following the guidelines
in its Policy Statement and its procedures for preparing and supervising
small enterprise loans. Further, SEDCO's extensive training and technical
assistance programs should improve the capabilities and financial prospects
of its clients thereby reducing its risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Industrial
Development Corporation of Swaziland, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Kingdom of Swaziland and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 17 -
57.       Features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex IV to this report.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 8, 1977



I



AM I
TAIR. 3
SWAZILAND               SOCIAL IUICAT0RS DATA gigs!
LAWB A119 (MM MM)
SWAZILAND                             EEFEKIECE COUNTRIES (19110)
TOAL   1.4                                         POST RECENT
A6R1E.        15.1                       1960        1910   ESTIMATE            BOTSWANA    x1uZTrius      GAD0"8
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       40.0       230.0      470a.0               190.0       35 0.0a    1120.0
P0PULAT13M AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION    NIY.MILLION)                 0.3        0.4        0.5                 0.6          0.8         0.5
PORULLATIBN BEESITY                       eo         2.          8010                          4.              .
PER SQUARE RN.                         1.          40         2.                    .         0.             .
PER So. MN. AGRICULTURAL LARD           19.0       28.0       30.0 A               1.0       129.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE    BlItTH RATE (.*THOU, AyE)     51.7       50.3        4i9.0               46          35.9         31.8
CRUDE    DEATH RATE (/THOU, AVE)       28.2       24.4        21.8                25.14        0.9        25.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            .                       ..                           5s.s
LIFE EXPECTANCY AiT BIRTH CTRS)         35.9      41.0        43.5                41'.0       63.2         38.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..         3.5        3.5                 3.2         2.4,         2.6
POPtULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                   2.4         2.9*       3.2 *1.9                        2.4          1.0
URBAN                                    ..        13.6w       4-7A               164 2        4.9          8.0
URBAN POPULATION    IS OF TOTAL)           2.6 Ia     7.1 /A     7.9                 1.3        441.0        32.0
AGE STRUCTURtE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         146.9      46.6 /b    148.2'/a                         41.9        34.0
15 TO 68 YEARS                          03         49.1 /     4l9.2 7               .         54.5        61.0
45 YEARS AND OVER                        2.8       14.3 79     2.6.7                .3.6                    5.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       1.0         .0 /b     1.0/c.                            .           .
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1 2 /d      1.:2 F-4                                                 'I. .s'  .
rAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOti)            .                       ..                           49.6
USERS IS OF MARRIED WOMEN)               .
EMPLOYMENT
TTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            130.0       185.0      200.0                  ..       250.0       214.0   Ia
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (z             89,4       82.1       78.1                  ..        30.0         54.0
UNEMPLOYEO CI OF LABOR FORCE)               .                      ..                           It.0
INcomE DISTRIBUTION
1 O  PRVAT  INOMEREC'D BY-
HIGHEST   51 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         .           ..                              .         45.3 /A
HIGHEST 201 Of HOUSEHOLDS                (.          .           ..                              .        6.75 X
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               3-
LOOEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                                 82
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND ONNERSHIP
I OWWED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS
1 OWNED BY SMIALLEST 101 OWNERS             ..
HEALTH AND NUrRITION
POPULATO     E   HSCA                   300       80.         300/.15850.0                   4090.0       5100.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           2090.0 /       .       980.0 7a d         1280.0       400.0       600.0
POPULATION PEN HOSPITAL BED             4~90. _     300.0      270.0 t             390.0       25 0.0      100.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)             ..          ..         ..6.0                        104.0        94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  ..          .           .65.0                        50.0        56.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..         -           .33.0                         19.0        30.0/A
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4
EDUCAT ION
A_U:UST_ED ENROLLMIENT RATIO
PRIMARiY SC HOOL                       56.0 /0    84.0/c      90.0/8              66.0 /b     79.0 Ia    148.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        5.0 7F    i -o7rc    25./ 7-e             8.0        35.o 7-     16.0 /d
TEARS OF SCNODLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.0       12.0                 1Z.0        14.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
CI OF SECOCNDARY )                      5.0        2.0        3.0 Ia              19.0         ).OA       jS.0
AOULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                    ..        30.0         ..20.0                          ..        30.0
HOUSING
PERSO;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                   ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(Z OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    5.0        9.0          ..9.0
RURIAL DW ELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                        ..
COmSUMPTI ON
RADIO RE_;C_EIVERS (PER THOU POP)          1.0        14.0      111.0                13.0       102.0       124.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            10.0        10.0       114.0                3.0        15.0        11.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             35.0          ..      180.0 /a               ..       211.0       194.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PEN CAP)                   .                      ..                            0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFLNITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNlEt I
Page 2 Of 4 pages
NOtES
ftl.lss otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*   Differences betwee   t51 rate of natturl nres     and ORD1 population growtt rate due to diffarast canana bases.
Ss . Sletion of lIsbon as the objective country is base.d on ice elzilariry in population else ad econ      ic structure, elrhougb Cebon is at a
higher leve   of developeent.   Both cuoutri.a have well-diversified econnise, are endowed with natural reso. rar     s and hav  advanced, ecri-e
privete ...ctOrO.
SWAZILANID      1960    I    1956;    lb  1962,     /c  6-12 and 13-17 yasro of age respectively;        dBatils  of population ondar 11 and 65 and ever to
tOtal labor force.
1970    I    1956-66,    lb  1966.    Ic   6-12 and 13-17 years Of oge repactively;     /d   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and war
to total labor force.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE      Ia  1972,    lb  1966-73,     Ic  African population only,      Id   Including asslatast nurses.      I   6-12  and 13-17
years of age respectively.
BOTSWANIA       1970    Ia1964-70,       lb  6-13 and 14-lB years of age respectively.
MAfErrIul       1970    I    RAtio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        lb  including teac.her training;     Ic  5-12 and
13-18 yeru of ago respectively.
GASQI           1970    I   Active population aged 15-59,       lb  Inomne reipient,      Ic  i964-66,     Id  12-lB years of age.
R6, Dec . 9, 1976
-   -   -- --                       =  7   a            -      - -  - -  - - -  -- --- -  - - - - ---    - - - - -
DUNmTr=      (W Macrs INDICATORS
Total -re Mothmk2                                                                  Popg    ionc    tuni    pursue   - Popultion divided bly number of pratt.ining
T  -. Totalsrfc     conprlinig. land area snd inland wteure.                      mal au     nangaut          ure,    tand.r"crild                en     n
AUric.   M-    recan.t cotiaate of egricoltoral area uaed teoperarily Or              oliar%y pers,onnel with training or enperienc-.
pernenently for cropo, psatores, market 6 kitchen gerdena or to lie             Ponulatin vtiaital bed - Population divided by nuanber of hospital bedo
fallow,                                                      ava~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilable in public and pni-ato gs..eral and opeoilil-ed hospital and
rehabilitation cen ters, encludee suroing hoses end o-tablshosents for
GNiP per capita (US)) - GNP Per capita e-tiauates at Aurrent earket prices,          custodial and preventive care.
calouiatod by so-   conversion merhod .s World Bank Atlas (1973-75              Peyaiaocl         of calories (7. of reuraetl          - Coputed frn energy
baslo). 1960. 1970 and 1971 data.                                                 equivalent oflsoa food supplies -eve    llahieis cocry sac .epita per day.
avilble  aPplies copriu     dpsnst.cpr-duoio,     ipre     esauo
Population and vital Otatiacics                                                      audiohacuicrk,ntspie                 so lode    inal,fed    sed,qanri-
PPonulation (sO-y    million) - Autof July first'    if nout aailabla,                tico used In food procesin    ad lossin distribution. r-qairnesnats
ovraef   rw end-year  srtiuaeu s1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                   were est-aLetd by FAO based on Physiological needs for carnal activity
adheal th cnidering onvironxsental temperature, body weights , age and
PPonlatlo donucty    at sar       n- Mid-Y-a PoPulaisro     per uquare kclo-         00dintribution     of   poplation, sad ai11-ing l0r~ for asets at hoone-
no,ltor, (10  eraron     fttshraold loyal.
Pocolaion dnaityp     qr nure ka of aucic. land - tCmpered as above for       Per canita ounoly of Protein (grms_e       a)-poencneto                e
acrivuitural iacd only.                                      ~~~~~~~~~capita net supply of food par day; net supply of fuod is defineda
above, roqoicenento fur all c norries established by USDA Economoic
Via-eaiotica                                                                     Roteanch Sor-ices provide for a minims allowanc.e if 69) fran     of tutal
Crd tbrh -oc pr thoasood, vrueAna I. live births Per- thousan.d                  protein por day, and 20 gran    of asinal and pulee protein, of uhith
ond-y.ar pupulotiun; te- yea    or i,bt`   rvcao      uding in 1960 and         10 grays uhou Id ho aulnal pro-oin, thoe. arsodards     , ac  lower than those
1970, and fitle-Iar -v.rag Ren-ding -c 1975 fur coo trac..nt enticote.             Of 75 gruav  of total protein and 23 granos of sninal Protein as an
trade death ratepr thonoand, uvra,g      - Annual deaths Per thosauand of nid-         average for the world. propaned by fAOl in the Third World Fond Suresy
your population; ton-year urith..tic average     ending in i960 and 1970 aud     2ez anita Protejo supply_f ir   n sosa  garY -ail~ -Protein -opply of food
fiv  y-ro  ovrge onding in 1911 fur nost recent e-tioate.                      _.brfv-d fre      anirtalad p       sin Bra.u Pa, fly.
Infat nrtaity ate(Iron)- Annual deaths of    Wanfao   under one year of    Drth rate rbanh,, Sass    -h  - Annual deaths per tho..ta.d in age grop
a:9c per rah:nand live births.                                                     fiWs4ca, to cildren1in thin age group, soaggeetedasana indicator of
Lifeeocanya         ith (ro) -veAge nbar of years of life ro-aming                    ealnutrition.
at birth, usually fIve-year avergen ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
deoc"uPing vosottle.                                                            Education
Cr-0 roproducrion rate - Averoge nanber of live daooghtrersawvsanoill               Adj- ted ruro11et ratio - pninary ochoa1 - inrolleont of all ageaa
boa,r in hot noma   reproductivo perio   if she.oeine        prese.nt age-        P.orcentoJo of pri-ory achool-age population; includes childree aged
opevifir fertilitY rates,usalyfIveyear a--rogn          ending in 1960,            h-lI years hot ad)uuted fur different lengtho of prjnarpda..a tion,
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                           for countrieo wi th universal education, enrelent coy soceed 1001
,Popultion Rorwth rte 7. -toal-Coapound annua           growth rates of old-          sinc  uS,'- pupils are below  r above th,e Official ochool age.
yeapouaInfr1560                190-70 and 1970-75.                              Ad,justed enroinnt ratio - aecoodary school ;.-Coputed aabove,
Puuato:cot rate (7. - urban - Computed lihe growth rata of total               aecoudary educotion requiresat least four Ser, of ap'ad prny
population, different definitions of urban area. nay affect c-para-                 Instructio, provides general, voctional or teac.her training
busty of da ta among countries.                                                    ins-trciono for Pupils of 12 to 17 yeara of age; corraspondeocs
Urban cpulton(              S ftoa)- Ratia of urban to total population,              corses are generally e..cluded.
differen1't defin(ition0ootf urban oman nay affect comparbility Of data         Years of o,tjo3\ins provided_(first and second levela     - Total years of
anu  ootrieu                                                                   schooling, at necandary level, vncaiona      instructIon nay be Pa--
Ao o  trroucre (percent) - Childr-n (0-14 years), worhing-age (15-64 years,           tialIly -r -opletely gocluded.
and re tired (65 years end over) an percsntageu of mid-year populatin VMolnlenalot(.                      of uecondany    - Vocational institutions
000 dependency ratio -Rlatio of population under 15 and 65Sand over to                include technical, industrial or other PrOgras which operate
rh.oo of ages 15 through 64.                                                       independently Or as dep.artonts of aecondary institutions.
icnnc donecyrto-           ai    f population under 15 and 65 and ever          Adult literacy rate_Li. - Literate adultn (able to read and writs) as
1.torolahor force L. age grop 15-64 yeara.                                         percen.tage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
famIly olanoinx aoear        enltivethou         - Cor,letive number of
acceptor   of birth-control deviceS under   upooo        alnlfml                    a
Plann.ing progra  since inception.                                               Persona rporroam (urban) - Averagenoumbr of persons per rune In
PaniIyplning - u      er (M of carriedwae       - Percentages of married              ocuid covetional doellingo in urban areas, dwellings eoolude
amec ofchild-hering ag   (l5- y yars) who use birth-control devices         non-permarnent structures cod unoccupied parts-
to oil married Osmon ionao     g   group.                                       Occupied d-elliog    without pined water M7) - Occupied coovntional
dwellingu. in urban and rural areas wihout Inside or outside piped
incloynont                                                      w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ater faci lities as percen tage of all occuPied dwellings.
otllbrforce itb ouanad) - Economically active prsono, Including              Access to electricit (7     f all d eling)- Conveotlal dwellIngs
aecd forces and atnemployd hobt encluding hueev        s, tudents, etc.,           wtenricty (inivn              quarers anern't oftota        dwelnsi
definitiama in vaniona coseotries are not nosopara.ble.                            urbac and rural areas..
Labor foroe In agriculture (7.) - A-gr icultural labor force (in farming,           Ruadwlia         connected to electricity (7M   - Coeputed as shove for
forestry, bh  ting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forte,                -rura  dweIlingo only.
ino_ployd 7 of laborforgce) -tonenployed are usually defined as persona
who are able and wling totke a Job, out of a Job on a given day,                 Cunaumption
cenaice   our ofaJob, and seeking work for a specified ninimans period           Radi,otens i-ra (per thou eon) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
not-ecedngoe        ek; may cot be comparsble between countries due to             cSt toigeneral public per thon.nod of PoPulation.       -clude-
differetcdefinitions of ameployad and aowroe of data, e.g., employ-                anlice-d rae.iv-rs in cowntrins cod in Year       when registratiu   Of
neo   ffic  atatistlc, -samPl. survYs, compulsory unemsploymnent insurance.       radio  et    aciefc;dtaoreenpeampnrbecprbe
in mnetcountrie    abolished licensIng.
Income diatributioa  - Percentage of Private incos    (both in cash and hind)       Pasaenger car   (pet thou non) - Passenger oars compria    motor cars
receIved by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 20%, and poorest 407. of            ucating lens than eight persons,    ocludes ambulances, hearses and
ho=nholdo.                                                                         military vehicle.a
Electricity kWhly- net can) - dAsuel conseaoption, of induatria1, cue-
Dist-obution of landSonrhn-Pretgaofln                    we     ywatis                mercial, public sod private electricity in kilowatt boure per capita,
107. and poorest 17 of land    -onra.                                              generally booed 00 production dots, without allowance far Il...ea in
grid, bu t allowing for imparts adeprtofestlty
Wealth and nutrition                                                                NBesomn   (k&lyr carca    ) - Percaitaanua       consumption in kilograss
Populetion net phericia    - Population divided by number of practicing               estimated tram  damestic Prodoction Plus net impgrta of newprint.
physicians qualified frmn a medical uch-aI at university level.



Page 3 of 4 Pge'
ECOloMIC INDICATORS
GRDSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197 I75                                    AW&L RATE OF GROWTH C%, constant prices)
USs Mln.                                      1971/72-73/74                  1974/752
ONP at Market Prices          240.9        100.0                                  7.0                      6.0
Gross Domestic Investment      62.2         25.8
Gross National Saving          76.2         31.6
Current Account Balance        14.0          5.8                                  *-
Exports of Goods, NFS         192.1         79.7                                 98.5
Imports of Ooods, NFS _      161.3          67.0                                 85
OUIPT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITI IN 1974/75
Value Added                   Labor Force3/                 V. A. Per Worker
UsS min.      % Jln.                        %U
Agriculture                   72.0          31.7              .157       78                   458          41
Industry                      60.4          26.6              .015        8                 4,026         357
Services                      94.6          41.7              .029       14                 3,262         288
Unallocated
Total/Average           227.0        -IO.0               .201      IOO.                1,129         100.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Governoent
M              _ln.)  % of DP 
1971916 -                                            7     19741 5     1972673-7-/75
Current Receipts                                                                   41.9        22.5           28.5
Current Expenditure                 -ZLI                                                       13.3           16.9
Current Surplus                                                                    17.1         9.2           11.6
Capital Expenditures                                                                9.5         5.1            6.5
External Assistance (net)                                                           10.4        5.6            7.1
MONEY. CRKDIT and PRICBS                  1970         1971        1972         1973          7         1975
(Million Emal. outstanding end period)
Money and Quiai Money                      ..           ..         39.5        43.6         56.3        82.3
Bank credit to Public Sector             -1.2          -1.5        -2.0         2.8        -5.3        -13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             17.1         18.2        17.4         22.6        29.3        42.9
(Percentages or index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of 01?          ..           ..         34.6         31.1        30.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100) 4/      109.1        111.3       113.9        127.1       151.6       170.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        2.2          2.0         2.3         11.6        19.3        12.3
Bank credit to Public Sector               ..         -25.0       -33.3        140.0      -189.3
Bank credit to Private Sector              ..           6.4        -4.4         29.9        29.6
MOTI, All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Estimated on basis of national accounts data for period July to June. Not strictly comparable with balance
of payments fi&ures which relate to cmleadar year.
/ Provisional.
Il Tia labor force is defined as persons emuloved in the -On'pr eecter pIus those w*'ose main occupation was
in the traditional sector;  excludes 25,000 absentees mainly in South Africa    (29,000 in 1976).
/ No general Price Index is availahle; index relates to the main cities of Mbabane and Manzini only.
not available
net applicable
February 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRAn8 PAD4ITS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS -/                                              MZRCHANDISE EXO4RS (AVEtAGE .1973-75)
1973     1974      1975/                                              US S Mln    X
(Milliona US $)
Exports of Goods             109.3    178.3     173.6              Sugar                             63.5     42.0
tmports of Goods              83.3    112.5     123.8             Wood Products                      28.1     18.6
Trade Balance                2-6-      67-g     -x.-              Fruits (mainly citrus)             10.3      6.8
Non-factor Services (net)    -5.1      -2.6      -2a7             Iron Ore                           15.3     10.1
Interest Payments (net)        ..       ..        .               Asbestos                           10.5      7.0
Workers' Remittances           ..       ..                         Meat & Meat Products               3.5       2.3
Other Factor Payments (net) -30.4     -36.0     -53.4
Net Transfers                  5.5     11.6      12.1               All other commodities            20.0     13.2
Balance on Current Account   - 3.9     38.8        5.8                   Total                      151.2    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      ..       *-         *-             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               *-       *-         *-                                                      U  S Mln
Amortization                                                                                             US .  ..
Subtotal                    ..       ..         ..               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             46.3
Capital Grants                 *-                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Govt. Capital (net)           14.6      15.3      10.9              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -12.9    -26.8      18.3
Increase in Reserves (+)      -2.2     27.3      35.0             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19753/
Gross Reserves (end year)      ..        ..
Net Reserves    (end year)      ..       ..        ..               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               3.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Inmorts                     83.3     112.5     123.8              Total outstanding & Disbursed
of which: Petrolem         8.4      15.7      17.6
Exports                     109.3    178.3     173.6
of which:  Petroleum        ..       ..        ..       IBRD/IDA LENDING. (February 1977)(Million US$)
RATE OF KXCHANaGE                                                                                    rR          ID
12Z   12Z_   l9_    1274   19Z5    Outstanding & Disbursed              7.8          2.7
US$1.0o = E               0.71   0.76   0.69   0.68   0.73    Undisbursed                          6.8         4.9
E1.00 = US$            1.40    1.29   1.44   1.47   1.37    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       14.6         7.6
1/ IMF staff estimates.
2/ Provisional.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Government Current Revenue.
not available
not applicable
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at February 28, 1977)
Amount (less cancellations)
(US$ million)
No.       Year   Borrower     Purpose                    Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Two loans and one credit                                  7.0   2.8       -
fully disbursed
1058-SW   1975   Kingdom of Water Supply and              3.5            2.8
Swaziland   Sewerage Facilities
518-SW    1975   Kingdom of  Education                          5.0      4.9
Swaziland
1108-SW   1975   Kingdom of Highways II                   7.0            4.0
Swaziland
Total                                17.5   7.8     11.7
of which has been repaid            2.9   0.2
Total now outstanding                14.6   7.6
Amount sold                   2.2
of which has been repaid   1.1      1.1
Total now held by Bank & IDAI/       13.5   7.6
of which is undisbursed             6.8  4.9      11.7
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1058-SW     Water Supply and Sewerage: US$3.5 Million Loan of
December 9, 1974; Effective Date: March 12, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After some initial delays the project is progressing reasonably
well except on one contract (construction of sewers in Mbabane) of which
the liquidation of the contractor led to retendering of part of the works.
Completion of the project is now expected by July 1978 instead of October
1977. Latest project cost estimates indicate that there will possibly
be an unused balance of the Bank loan of US$0.9 million (mostly due to the
devaluation of the South African rand in September 1975). Discussions are
in progress on identifying possible additional works which could be con-
sidered for financing with the unused funds.
Credit No. 518-SW    Education: US$5 Million Credit of December 9, 1974;
Effective Date: March 11, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is continuing to make good progress. The Program
Implementation Unit is operating satisfactorily; architectural design,
construction and procurement are proceeding well. If implementation con-
tinues at the present rate, the project could be completed ahead of
schedule. Costs are within the original estimate.
Loan No. 1108-SW      Second Highway: US$7 Million Loan of May 5, 1975;
Effective Date: October 13, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Construction of the Tshaneni-Mlaula and Helehele-Phuzumoya roads
is progressing well, and is expected to be finished by the contract comple-
tion date. At Government's request, the loan agreement was amended (R76-232,
September 15, 1976) to permit utilization of US$1.8 million of an estimated
US$2 million surplus in the loan account. The surplus resulted partly from
the 1975 rand devaluation and partly from savings in physical contingencies.
The amendment will enable the Helehele-Phuzumoya road to be extended 25 km
to Big Bend.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the un-
derstanding that they do not purport to present a balance evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
SWAZILAND
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      National Industrial Development Corporation
of Swaziland (NIDCS)
Beneficiaries:                 NIDCS, and the Small Enterprises Development Company
(SEDCO) for US$0.3 million to be relent by NIDCS
Guarantor:                     Kingdom of Swaziland
Amount:                        US$5.0 million equivalent
Terms:                        Repayable in accordance with a schedule which
would conform substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules of sub-loans
(including the SEDCO loan) and repayment
schedules for investments. The maximum re-
payment period would be 17 years. Interest
would be 8.2 percent per anrium.
Relending Terms:              a)   NIDCS would relend part of the loan
(US$4.7 million) at an interest rate
of 12.0 percent per annum for a maximum
period of 15 years. The exchange risk on
sub-loans and investments would be borne
by the Government for a fee of 1 percent
per annum. For sub-loans, NIDCS would
charge this fee to its borrowers.
b)  NIDCS would relend part of the loan
(US$0.3 million) to SEDCO and would be
repaid in 10 years, including 4 years
of grace at an interest rate of 8.2
percent per annum. The exchange risk
on this portion of the loan would be
borne by Government without a fee.
SEDCO would onlend its portion of the
loan at an interest rate of 10 percent
per annum for a maximum period of 10
years.
Purpose:                       The loan would assist in financing:
(1) NIDCS' foreign exchange requirement for
its development finance operations through
March 1979; and
(2) SEDCO's foreign exchange requirement for
its small-scale enterprise loans through
March 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Final Date for Sub-
project Submission:          December 31, 1979
Free Limit:                     NIDCS:  US$100,000 for individual sub-project;
US$1,000,000 aggregate limit.
SEDCO: First five sub-projects will require prior
approval.
Debt Covenants:                 NIDCS:  Maximum debt-equity ratio 3:1.
Estimated Disbursement:
US$ Million; Bank Fiscal Year
FY                      78     79     80     81
Annual                 1.0    2.0    1.5    0.5
Cumulative             1.0    3.0    4.5    5.0
Procurement:                    Through normal commercial channels.
Appraisal Report:               Report No. 1422-SW
April 1, 1977



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Year ending March 31       1977     1978     1979      1980     1981
(in E '000)
NIDCS
Projected Commitments
Loans                      1,192    2,178    2,538     2,793    3,065
Equity                       563      693      763       842      922
Buildings                    840    1,290    1,458     1,605    1,767
Total                 2,595    4,161    4,759     5,240    5,754
Projected Income Statements
Total Revenue                621      947    1,318     1,823    2,382
Financial and Administra-
tive Expenses           551      761    1,079    1,404     1,741
Provisions                    29       52       64        71       78
Net Profit                    41      134      175       348      563
As % of Average Net
Worth:           2.2       4.0      3.9      6.0     7.8
Projected Balance Sheets
Net Current Assets            91      379      262      245      101
Portfolio (net)            6,284    9,647   13,604   17,832    22,234
Administrative Assets
(net)                    9         9       19       19       34
Total Assets          6,384   10,035   13,885   18,096   22,369
Long-term Debt             3,278    5,795    8,470   1l,333   14,043
Equity                     3,106    4,240    5,415    6,763    8,326
Total Liabilities
-and Equity       6,384   10,035   13,885   18,096   22,369
Debt/Equity Ratio          1.1/1   1.4/1    1._6/    1.7/1    1.7/1



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
1977     1978      1979     1980     1981
(in E '000)
SEDCO
Projected Investments
Small enterprise loans           75      120       150      200      200
Industrial Estates
(including joint venture,
equipment and tools)           324      280       150       -        -
Other  /                         55      125       125       60       60
Total                      454      525      425       260      260
Projected Income Statements
Total Income  2/                  4       15        20       22       29
Administrative Expenses of
Credit Scheme                (31)     (37)      (39)     (42)     (45)
Net Income (Loss)               (27)      (22)     (19)     (20)      (16)
Projected Balance Sheets
Net Current Assets              158      220       266      266       266
Portfolio (net)                 187      213       264      364      443
Fixed Assets                    437      603       736      719       702
Total Assets               782    1,036     1,266    1,349    1,411
Long-term Debt                  629      857     1,076    1,138    1,203
Grants/Equity (less
Accumulated Deficits)        153      179       190      211      208
Total Liabilities
and Equity            782   !036     11266     1349    1,411
1/ Overseas Training, Marketing Assistance, Bookkeeping Service,
Research Section and Building Section.
2/ Income on Credit Scheme (less administrative expenses), Income on
Industrial Estates and Other Income.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
SWAZILAND
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF SWAZILAND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
a) Initial Discussion with the Bank: March 1973
b) First Bank Mission: March 1973
c) Appraisal Mission Departure: July 29, 1976
d) Negotiations: February 28 - March 4, 1977
e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
II.  Special Conditions
a) NIDCS will charge a minimum interest rate of 12.0 percent on
all loans (para. 33).
b) The Government will assume the foreign exchange risk on NIDCS'
sub-loans and investments for a fee of 1 percent per annum and,
for sub-loans,NIDCS will charge this fee to its borrowers. The
Government will assume the same risk on the SEDCO sub-loan for
no charge (paras. 33 and 45).
c) NIDCS will consult with the Bank on future appointments to the
position of Managing Director and Chief of Operations (para. 35).
d) NIDCS' debt-equity ratio will not exceed 3:1; SEDCO will be ex-
cluded from consideration of NIDCS' debt-equity ratio (para. 39).
e) SEDCO will charge an interest rate of 10 percent on its SSE loans
(para. 45).
f)  The Government will provide the necessary funds to meet SEDCO's
operating deficits (para. 48).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
g) Under the free limit provisions, NIDCS' projects using less than
US$100,000 of the proposed loan up to an aggregate of US$1 million
would not require the Bank's approval (para. 51); SEDCO, after sub-
mitting its first: five SSE projects for Bank approval, would only
submit on a quarterly basis a summary list of projects for which
Bank reimbursement is required (para. 52).
h) The Government would guarantee the repayment of the SEDCO sub-loan
to NIDCS (para. 52).



IBRD 2940R3
31                          /t TO         To   t                                       AUGUST 1976
Kaapmuiden  Hectoropruit    0            0           20           30
MILES ~ ~    ___
SWAZILAND                                              /                    j                          MILES       4p
Main roads - tar                                                                             KILOMETERS
Main roads - gravel                                                                           To
____ Minor roads                    _Koruiotioort
Railways               To
*    Important airfield   NelsDrui_
Aerial rop, way
Rivers                      r;rn/>)r                   ,        \Xj
-YIIrrigation schernes                       ,/,          :1| 
|:REGIONS                                     -                                  X, \S 
above sea level 1,200 mn         ov c                                ,
Middleveld- a3eraqe height                                                                                hasho
above sea level 600 rr,   456E            Fgq ,Peak   ~
Lowveld-average height          .,,                                   '      Trnr2
above sea level 200m.
=LuLubomt-average tie,ght
above sea level 550m      t
@    National capiltal
-     - XInternational bouncldres            H  H                                                                       3!
minsral conicessions
- -District boundaries            '           ~--
5tMines        *              /
ToJotfrannsburg       *~                  ae
ToLothoir
:\vborom~~~~      ~~~~         ny                                                    Po,drr e.a L   X E .
To Amstenja
Monko)ane
ovo lku7/&iru'';t            Q.1
RE                                                                                                     N AAATALby
- uotw      Ph0   rSi Og 29i,*       " -,,.  Th          1'Yvdoe Gtua T1 lsltpd xl C 4A .*          To          *       To/
.ee t=~~EIrar,.,      M.LF$ t.   I4e!otP;rld&,ikdiruetsfflhi otie7tVc byN,|        on4r          OurbOn\k  * Ir    /'Ubom



