Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4100-MAG 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 13, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4100-MAG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower has issued a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, dated 
July 2003 (hereinafter called the PRSP), describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote rapid and sustainable development to reduce poverty by half in ten 
years;  
(B) 
the Borrower has issued a letter dated June 3, 2005 (hereinafter called the 
Policy Letter), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies consistent with, and 
designed to give effect to, the PRSP (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a single 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency  specified 
in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, 
that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be made in such 
currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
select.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
 
on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the term “Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year 
beginning on January 1 in any one calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same 
calendar year. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 53,900,000). 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Dollars designated by 
the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon 
each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for
 in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.  
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the respective rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be 
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2015 and ending March 1, 
2045. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2025 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such information relating to 
the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
 
B.P. 61 
 
Antananarivo 101 
 
Madagascar 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
MEFB   
 
 
 
(261) 20 22 34530 
 
Antananarivo 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
 
        /s/ 
Benjamin 
Andriamparany 
Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
             /s/ 
James 
Bond
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
-
10
-
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association the 
Priority Action Plan for public financial management reforms for FY2004, in 
accordance with paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Policy Letter. 
2. 
The Borrower has adopted a budget for FY2005 which allocates greater share of 
resources to PRSP priority objectives relative to FY2004, with adequate funding 
allocated to key sectors (such as, education, health, nutrition and transport), in 
accordance with paragraph 17 of the Policy Letter. 
3. The 
Borrower
’s Treasury office in Toamasina, where the transitional financial 
management system has been installed, has produced monthly accounts by the 15
th
 of 
the following month, in accordance with paragraph 8 of the Policy Letter.  
4. 
The Borrower’s Treasury has prepared the final accounts (
comptes de gestion
)
for 2003, in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Policy Letter. 
5. 
The Borrower has established a new procurement oversight institution (
Autorité 
de Régulation des Marchés Publics
), in accordance with paragraph 10 of the Policy 
Letter. 
6. 
The Borrower has prepared the draft budget execution laws (
projets de loi de 
règlement
)
for 2002 and 2003, and sent them to the Auditor General (
Cour des 
Comptes
), all in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Policy Letter. 
7. 
The Borrower has adopted and commenced implementing a time-bound action 
plan for customs reform for 2005, in accordance with paragraphs 7 and 18 of the Policy 
Letter. 
8. 
The Borrower has continued to achieve progress in the implementation of the 
national Education For All program, in accordance with paragraph 13 of the Policy 
Letter. 
9. 
The Borrower has prepared a human resources rationalization study for the 
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research, in accordance with paragraph 
20 of the Policy Letter. 
10. 
The Borrower has: (i) established a national council for nutrition (
Conseil 
National de Nutrition
)
and a national office for nutrition (
Office National de Nutrition
); 
Page  13
-
12
-
and (ii) appointed the coordinator of the national office for nutrition, all in accordance 
with paragraph 20 of the Policy Letter. 
11. 
The Borrower has updated the national policy for health, in accordance with 
paragraph 21 of the Policy Letter. 
12. 
The Borrower has introduced in the budget for FY2005 a medium term 
expenditure framework for the health sector, in accordance with paragraph 21 of the 
Policy Letter. 
13. 
The Borrower has commenced staffing and equipping the Directorate of Water 
and Sanitation (
Direction de l’Eau et de l’Assainissement
)
in Antananarivo and its 
decentralized departments in the six provinces, to implement successfully the national 
Water For All program, in accordance with paragraphs 14 and 22 of the Policy Letter.
 
