Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6405-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
March 31, 1987
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Energy Division
This dument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.0 = FKG 750
(as of July 1, 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                      3   0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)              -   0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)                           1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)                       -   1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)               -   1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                      1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)         -   10)500,000 kilocalories
bbl      =  barrel                    MJ       - megajoule
cm       =  centimeter        Hm3                million cubic meters
GW       -  gigawatt                  m3       - cubic meter
hs       =  hectare                   MWh      - megawatt hour
-ie     =  kilotonnes of oil equiv. od         - oven dry
:, kWh  -  kilowatt, kilowatt hour  sv       = solid volume
LPG      3  liquified petroleum gas  t         - tonne
N        = million                    TCF      - trillion cubic feet
mcwb     =  moisture content          tpa, tpy - tonnes per annum, per year
wet basis                 twe      = tonnes of wood equivalent
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA         Banque Arabe de Dgveloppement Economique en Afrique
BNI           Banque Nationale pour l'Industrie
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CIMA          Kalagasy Cement Manufacturer
DEE           Department of Electricity and Water
DEF           Department of Fishery and Forestry
DGP           Planning Directorate
EEK           Electricitg et Eau de Madagascar
ESMAP         Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAC           Fonds d'Assistance a la Cooperation
FANALAMANGA   Malagasy Industrial Wood Plantation Authority
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FED           Fonds Europeen de Ddveloppement
GOM           Government of Madagascar
ICS           Interconnected System serving Antananarivo Region
JIRAMA        Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation
MIEM          Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines
MPAEF         Ministry of Animal Production, Fisheries and Forests
MPARA         Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
OMNIS         Military Office for National and Strategic Industries
PIU, PMU      Project Implementation Unit, Project Management Unit
PSIP          Public Sector Investment Program
RIP           Reference Power Sectot Investment Program
SEM           Soci6tf d'Energie de Madagascar
SOLIMA        Malagasy Petroleum Refinery Company
SOMAGI        Government-owned Data Processing Company
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
ZE            Major Power Production Zones Outside of ICS
ZI            Small Isolated Power Systems
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR



IVOR OML6  S   NY
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Government of Madagascar
Amount:          SDR 19.8 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:   The Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation (JIRAMA);
the Ministries of Industry, Energy and Mines, of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform, and of Animal
Production, Fisheries and Forests; public enterprises
involved in the boiler program; local private charcoalers;
and    the   Industrial    Wood    Plantation    Authority
(FANALAMANGA).
Terms:           Standard. 1/
Project          The project would help the Government strengthen energy
Objectives:      policy formulation, planning and investment programming,
and  institutional  development.    It would  assist  the
Government and JIRAMA in improving the efficiency of
resource   utilization   in   the   power   subsector   by
strengthening financial management, planning and manpower
development. and by rehabilitating existing deteriorated
subsector   infrastructure,   improving   financial   and
operational  performance  of  JIRAMA,  and  stimulating
commercial utilization of low cost hydropower resources.
It would help the Government develop least-cost plans to
expand the supply of electric power and household energy
products and by correcting distortions in their prices.
Finally, it aims to encourage increased and more
effectively coordinated flow of resources from donors to
the power and household energy subsectors.
Project          The project comprises the implementation of the highest
Description:     priority  projects,  comprised  mostly  of  rehabilitation
works, included in JIRAMA's investment program for the
perit,d 1987-1992, technical assistance for power system
planning and investment programming, and assistance in the
establishment of modern methods and tools for utility
financial management  and administration.   The project
comprises technical assistance for strengthening energy
planning and management in MIEM, and for major policy and
planning studies on biomass fuels supply and marketing and
resource assessment, and household energy demand.   The
project would support initiatives to improve household
cooking efficiency, to develop production of charcoal from
pine plantation thinnings and residues; and to test pilot
1/ Onlending terms are 8% Interest rate, repayment periods of 10 to 20
years after grace period of 2 to 5 years.
Thi documnt b a estited distdbution and may be used by reipints only in the perfonmce
of te officil dutbs Its contonts may not otherwi be diclosed without Wodd Bank authodutlon.



- il -
production of rice husk briquettes. Finally, the project
includes installation of electrical boilers which would
use surplus power in the Interconnected System (ICS).
Project Risks:   Risks  are  minimal  as  the  project  concentrates  on
rehabilitating existing generation, transmission and
distribution systems. Also, JIRAMA has a sound record for
safe engineering practice.   Benefits arising from the
proposed electric boiler program may be reduced due to
delays in implementation or reduced demand. The risk that
JIRAMA may be overwhelmed administratively by the volume
of required rehabilitation works is to be minimized by the
appointment of consultants to assist with the design,
prioritization and implementation of the rehabilitatin
program. Foreseen improvements In the financial viability
of JIRAMA may be jeopardized by delay In tariff adjustment
althought this risk is to be minimized by linking the
achievement of financial performance criteria to the
release of the first and second phases of investment.
Madagascar Public Power Stations and Transmission Lines,
October 1986, IBRD 18816R



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR  IoOOOoOOOOOooooOOOooOeOOOOOOOOeOOooOOOOOooOoo  1
Introcjction 00I00000006009000000000090000000090000000000000000  1
Bank Particepation in the Sector       ..............................  2
Reasons for IDA's Involvement in the Energy Sector .............   4
Energy Resources  4.....0.0.00...........*ooooooooooooooooooo  4
Hydropower  ..ooooo.ooooooo.ooo.oooooooooooo.oooo 000000000  4
Petroleum ...............................  4
Coal, Lignite and Peat ...................5...........        5
Biomass                                                       5
FoergDests  .d.o...000000*000000*00000000000000000000000000000000  5
Energy Balances and Trends  .............0.00.0o.0...0.0..o.   5
Energy Supply oooo. .o .ooo.000           **.**0.000..0*.00**  6
Electric Power ee6oooooo*oooooo*oooooooooo.oo*00000o000o 6
Petroleum and Petroleum Products *7**ooo*#o*** ooooooooo  7
Biomass Fuels B000000000****o*****o**oooooo.eo*oooo  8
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR *000000000 ooooo00ooo0o0oo0oooOooooo000o*o   8
Organization 0000000000000*00 eee**.e**0*0**00..*4.0oo0o00 8
Sector Fatilities *000000000000-00000000000000000--00000   9
Access to Service                                              10
Pattern cf Electricity Consumption                             10
Power Subsector Planning                                        11
Power Subsector Objectives                                     12
Power Subsector Strategy *oo.ooooooo*o.........................  12
Aid Inflow and Coordination in the Sector                       12
ITI. THE BORROWER AND THE IMYLEMENTING AGENCIES  ......13
JIRAMA                0     00                                  13
Organization and Management                                  13
Planning                                                     14
Engineering and Design .....14
Operations and Maintenance                                   14
Data Processing                                              15
Billing and Collection                                       15
Accounting and Audit                                         15
This report is a result of a mission which visited Madagascar between
June 2 and June 19, 1986. The mission leader was Ken Newcombe (Senior
Energy Specialist) and included Juergen Franz (Senior Financial Analyst),
C. H. A. Killoran (Power Engineer, Consultant), W. Pacheco (Power Engineer,
Consultant), and J. R. Mercier (Energy Planner, Consultant).



Insurance and Taxes . ..................................... 15
Personnel and Personnel Management                              16
Training                                                        16
Management Information System (MIS)                             16
Performance Indicators                                          17
IV.  THE MARKET                                                        17
Electricity Market                                                17
Historical Market ......        ..oe ........................ 17
Demand Forecast for Electricity in the Main ICS                 17
Generation and Capacity Balances in the Interconnected Systeu 18
Demand Forecast for Electricity in the External Zone            19
Demand Forecast for Electricity in the Isolated Zone            19
Household Fuels Market                      ,                     19
Cooking Fuel Supply and Demand:  Antananarivo #.............. 20
Household Fuels Marketing .......       .20
V.   INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT                                    21
Power Subsector Investment Program (PSIP) s.................... 21
The Program ...................u.                                 22
Works in Progress                                               22
Future Projects                                                 23..........  * 00   23
The Project                                                       23
Project Objectives                                              23
Project Preparation                                             24
Project Description                                             25
Power Components                                              25
Energy Components                                             25
Electric Boilers ...................o. 26
Project Costs   ...o........                         **           26
Project Implementation                                            27
Implementation of Power Components                              27
Implementation of Energy Components                             28
Implementation of Boiler Program ............................ 29
Consulting Services    .ee*. * . 000.0..........                  30
Procurement           ................ 30
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing ......32
Financing Plan                                                    32
Disbursement                                                      33
Special Account,;                                                 33
Environmental Aspects .......................       00 34
Project Risks                                                     34
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .... 3 5 ...........35
Introduction                                                      35
Financial Position and Past Operating xesults of JIRAMA           35
Tariff Structure and Policy ......36
Financial Restructuring of JIRAMA                                 38
Future Financial Position and Operations of JIRAMA                40
Project Phasing and Financial Covenants                           41
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                            42
A. Power Subsector Economic Analysis                                 42
Average Incremental Cost Analysis                                 42



Return on Power Subsector Investment      .......................... 42
Economic Analysis of Volobg Hydropower Plant Rehabilitation ... 43
Electric Boller Prograu ....................................... 43
Economic Analysto of Antananarivo-Anstirabe Transmission Line . 44
Economic Viability of New Household Power Supply Connections .. 44
Economic Viability of Rehabilitation Programs   .................  44
B. Housebold and Industrial Energy Production Pilot Projects .....  45
Charcoal                           .......................  45
Rice Husk Briquettes .... ...................................... 46
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS .................. 46
Agreements .......................  46
Conditions for Effectiveness .................................. 48
Conditions of Disbursement ............ *00e***O**.............. 48
Recommendation ....O.......OO@C OCOCOC..                      49



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.1   National Energy Balance, 1983
1.2   Energy Sector Information Flow sad Decision Making Process and
Administration of Household Energy Planning Program
2.1   Installed Generation Capacity
3.1   Organization and Functions of the PMU, Project Management
Organization, and JIRAMA Organization Chart
3.2   Selected Performance Indicators
4.1   Methodology and Assumptions for Load Forecasts
4.2   JIRAMA ICS Sales and Generation, Actual and Projected FYSO-95
4.3   JIRAMA ICS Peak Demand, Actual and Projected FY80-95
4.4   JIRAMA ICS Energy and Capacity Balances FY86-95
4.5   Isolated External Zone Centers Sales Forecast
4.6   Projected Supply-Demand Balance for Household Energy, Antananarivo
Faritany
4.7   Description of the Charcoal "Filiare"; Present and Possible Fhiture
Situation
5.1   Reference Power Subsector Investment Plan Sumary, 1987-1991
5.2   Project Description
5.3   Project Cost Summary
5.4   Summary of Implementation Schedule
5.5   Electric Boiler Project - General Contract Terms & Conditions
5.6   Financing Plan
5.7   Estimated Scbedule of Disbursements
6.1   JIRAMA Reform Measures
6.2   JIRAMA Income Statements 1983-1992
6.3   JIRAMA Balance Sheets 1983-1992
6.4   JIRAMA Sources and Uses of Funds 1984-1992
6.5   Assumptions Used for Financial Analvsis
6.6   Phase II Investments
7.1   Economic Cost of Electricity and Economic Rate of Return on Power
Subsector Investment Program
7.2 %conomic Analysis of VolobG Hydropower Generating Plant
7.3   Economic Analysis of the Antananarivo Region Electric Boiler Program
7.4   Economic Analysis of Antananarivo-Antsirabe Transmission Line
7.5   Comparative Economic and Financial Cost of Rice Rusk Briquettes,
Madagascar, 1986
8.1   Documents entered Into the Project File
MAP:  Madagascar Public Power Stations and Transmission Lines, October
1986, IBRD 18816R



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Irtroduction
1.01     Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world with a land
area of 597,000 km2.   Its estimated 1986 population Is 10.1 million.
Despite a favorable resource endowment, Madagascar's economic performance
has been disappointing and its present estimated GDP per capita is only
about US$240/capita, 1/ whiech is 252 below that of the early 19708 and
still declining. The lialagasy economy remains predominantly agricultural
with 81% of the population being rural and agriculture contributing about
one third of GDP. Economic recovery is predicated on more efficient use )f
resources in the face of severe foreign exchange constraints, rehabilite-
tion of infrastructure and productive capacity and resumption and growth in
agricultural exports.
1.02      Total gross energy consumption was about 2 million toe, or 214
kgoe per capita in 1983 of which 82X was fuelwood used very largely for
household cooking (Annex 1.1), whereas final energy use was 1.65 million
toe. Energy demand is forecaet to reach 2.44 million toe by 1995, a growth
of 3.3% per annum, though woodfuels used in the household sector will still
exceed three-quarters of final energy consumption. 2/
1.03       Madagascar's main commercial energy resources are hydropower,
petroleum and coal. Hydropower is estimated at 7 GW, coal at one billion
tonnes and heavy oil at 5-20 billion barrels; however, the economically
recoverable quantities are not known as physical and technical accessi-
bility is generally difficult.  Other forms of petroleum, lignite, and-
despite regional shortages-forests and woody biomass are all available in
significant quantities though commercial access is presently limited.
Uranium and geothermal steam are also known to occur.
1.04     The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines (MIEM) has the mandate
to formulate energy policy and to undertake energy planning and investment
programming, although the (ffice Militaire pour les Industries Nationales
et   trategiques (OMNIS) has played an important role in this sphere until
recently.   The other major energy agencies are JIRAMA and SOLIMA, the
national power and petroleum supply and refining companies, respectively.
Both of these companies report through the Direction de l'Energie et de
l'Eau (DEE) of MIEN, to the Minister of Industry, Energy and Mines.
Increasingly, other Government agencies are being drawn into energy supply
activities,  especially  for woody  biomass  fuels.    These  include  the
1/ Preliminary revised Atlas figure.
2/ Madauascar: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, World Bank (July
1986), Report No. 5700-MAG.



- 2 -
Departement des Eaux et ForOts (DEF) of the Ministere de Production des
Animaux, Eaux et Forgts (MPAEF), the parastatal timber producer,
FANALAMANGA, linked to MPAEF, in respect to woodfuels, especially charcoal,
and the MinistAre de Production Agricole et Revolutioin Agraire (MPARA) with
respect to agricultural residue fuels. A schamatic representation of the
new arrangements for energy administration of the Government and for the
energy planning administration itself, is pre3ented in Annex 1.2.  These
arrangements were agreed with IDA during project preparation and are being
implemented.
1.05        Interaction for the purposes of energy policy formulatlon,
planning, and investment programming between government agencies, even for
those under the umbrella of MIEM, has not been strong.   There is no
coherent national energy policy, though in certain contexts, such as
Government sponsored conferences on the nation's energy resources, national
goals and objectives have been enunciated. In the course of IDA's ongoing
dialogue with the GOM ill the energy sector, and with the benefit of the
recent joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment and preparation for
the proposed Credit, the GOM has confirmed the central role and
responsibility of MIEM for energy policy and planning.   Thus IDA would
provide technical assistance and other means of support to MIEM to elevate
the status and effectiveness of energy planning and to broaden the horizons
of energy strategy formulation to include the household energy subsector:
specifically, supply and demand management aspects of energy used for
household cooking, lighting and other household end-uses.   The size of
IDA's proposed support for the energy administration and household energy
planning has been adapted to the absorptive capacity of the Government.
1.06     Public sector investment programming is the responsibility of the
Direction G6n6rale du Plan (DGP), which has limited skilled staff and
resources, and no staff assigned to, or well informed with respect to$ the
energy sector.  Currently, DGP compiles the energy sector components of the
Public Sector Investment Plan (PSIP) directly from the plans and programs
of the various agencies active in energy production and supply. However,
there is no explicit energy sector investment program prepared as part of
the  PSIP.     Instead,  woodfuel  production,  power  supply,  petroleum
exploration, and petroleum refining and distribution are treated in
disaggregated fashion with no attempt to prioritiz% within the sector
consistent with least-cost among competing solutions to serve particular
energy demands. Thus sound technical, economic and financial analysis and
judgment of sector priorities is lacking and there is an ongoing risk of
inefficient resource utilization in the sector. Under the proposed credit,
IDA would seek to alleviate this problem by strengthening energy planning
and  investment  programming both within MIEM  and  JIRAMA,  as well  as
encouraging coordination between all other energy-related agencies towards
effective energy planning and project implementation.
Bank Participation in the Sector
1.07        The Bank Group has provided funds for three energy sector
operations and two forestry projects which have subsequently created
important energy supply options. The first energy sector project was for
the power subsector through assistance with financing the Andekaleka
Hydropower Project with a credit of US$43 million (Credit 817-MAG, May



1978). This credit closed on September 15, 1986. The project included the
construction of a dam and power plant with two 29 MW generating units,
engineering services,  technical assistance, and training.   The project
achieved its objective of exploiting an Important hydropower resource to
economically displace thermal power in the main interconnected power supply
zone (ICS).   In the process JITAMA staff increased their competence in
major  project  design  and  implementation.    The  project  achieved  the
establishment of a planning unit, the provision of computer facilities and
improved  management  practices  and  organization.       However,  plarning
methodologies, investment programming, and the successful adaptation of
computer technology for consumer billing and accounts and for planning and
engineering design are still needed.   Lessons learned from the project
include the need for improved demand forecasting techniques and market
analysis to reduce the risk of premature investment.  Failure to predict
more accurately future power demand at the time of designing the Andekaleka
project has led to large surpluses of hydroelectricity in the ICS (para.
4.03).   Similarly, a stronger and ongoing dialogue is required during
project supervision between JIRAMA, the Government and IDA in order to
strengthen planning and management capability.   Under the seeend energy
sector project, the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Credit of 1980 (Credit
1016-MAG), the GOM established the legal and fiscal framework for explora-
tion and promotion and assembled the required data.   Since  1981 four
contracts have been signed with major oil companies and more than US$90
million has been spent on drilling activity.   The third energy sector
project, the Tsimorora Heavy Oil Exploration Project of 1982 (Credit
1298-MAG) has further defined the Tvimorora resource, and though not
proving up recoverable resources, showed possible extension of the
reservoir, thereby justifying further seismic analyses lu 1985, and shallow
drilling in 1986. In the forestry sector, two operations have contributed
to energy sector development by generating large quantities of charcoal
feedstock in the form of thinnings and smallwood. These are the first and
second Mangoro Forestry projects (Loan 1065-MAG and Credit 525-MAG, 1974-
1981 and Credit 1661-MAG, 1982) which helped the Government to complete the
establishment of about 80,00U ha of pine plantations at Haut Mangoro.
1.08     Under the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program and at
the request of the Government of Madagascar, the Bank conducted in 1984 an
energy sector assessment of Madagascar. The final report (No. 5700-MAG) of
the mission was published in January 1987 after detailed review by the
Government, and concludes that the sector issues which roquire the most
urgent action are: (i) the increasing shortage and rapidly growing r.: 1
prices of woodfuels for household cooking and the deforestation and
environmental deterioration related partly to woodfuel scavenging; (ii)
the urgent need  for rehabilitation  of  distribution,  transmission  and
generation systems in the power sector; (iii) the gross under-utilization
of hydropower available from the Andekaleka hydroelectric generating
station in the Interconnected Zone;   (iv) the general weakness of energy
policy, planning and investment programming in Government, exacerbated by
the lack of a single effective focus for energy planning and poor coordina-
tion between agencies active in the ener,v sector; (v) the future form of
petroleum products supply and the viability of and options for refinery
rehabilitation and operations; (vi) the inadequate definition in physical
and economic terms of the major resources with energy potential, including
in particular hydropower and woody biomass.



-4-
Reasons for IDA's Involvement in the Energy Sector
t
1.09      IDA's goals in Madagascar are to assist the Government with the
formulation and implementation of policies and programs which will improve
the efficiency of the public sector and stimulate private sector production
of goods and services. leading to increased resource mobilization, and
increased production and exports of agricultural produce and manufactured
goods where Madagascar has a comparative advantage.   In supporting the
energy sector, IDA is seeking the formulation of comprehensive energy
policies leading to rational energy prices, import substitution, economic
use of indigenous energy resources, energy efficiency improvements and
enhancement of the role of the private sector in energy management and
development.   Consistent with these objectives, IDA sought and reached
agreement with  the  Government  on  the  strengthening of  energ   sector
institutions through the development of a single effective energy planning
agency, and the preparation of least cost production and supply plans for
major subsectors of the energy economy. Another important objective is the
improvement of reliability of supply and efficiency in the power sector
through rehabilitation of deteriorated generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities, and the financial rehabilitation of sector
parastatals (especially JIRAMA), leading to uniformly high technical
standards of service and financial autonomy.
Energy Resources
1.10         Hydropower.    The hydropower  resources  of  Madagascar  are
substantial but poorly defined and frequently economically inaccessible to
potential demand centers.   Stream gauging and hydrological analysis has
been only intermittent in the major catchment zones. JIRAMA estimates that
there are 339 known sites with a firm power potential of 7,055 MW capable
of an annual production of about 60,000 GWh.   Thirty-three sites with
estimated power outputs tabove 50 MW account Eor 6,330 MW, or 90% of the
known total.  There are 72 sites identified in the 1-5 MW range, and at
least 200 sites below 1 MW. Only 105 MW, corresponding to 1.6% of known
potential,  has  been  developed.    The  greatest  barrier  to  efficient
development of the hydropower resource is the lack of precise information
on the potential to economically displace existing diesel generation with
mini or micro-hydropower installations, the lack of a comprehensive least
cost development plan, and the poor coordination between potential donor
agencies.    The  proposed  project  will  strengthen  hydropower  resource
assessment and development planning (see para. 5.07(e)).
1.11       Petroleum.   Two sedimentary basins, Morondava in the west and
Mahajunga in the north, are potential sources of oil and gas. Their total
land-area is 170,000 ki2, with a further 80,000 km2 offshore at depths up
to 200 m. The deep water area between 200-2,000 m covers a further 50,000
km2, offering prospects for oil and gas in the 'onger term.  Most explora-
tion has been in in the Morondava basin where evidence of tar sand and
heavy oil have been found. Following the 1979 increase in oil prices, the
Government, with IDA assistance, was able to attract major oil companies to
invest heavily in oil exploration.   The four major oil companies now
active-Mobil, AGIP, Amoco and Occidental-will have spent more than US$100
million by mid-1988.   There are also tar sand and heavy oil deposits in
western Madagascar. The Bemolanga tar sands are estimated to contain 5-20



billion barrels of oil equivalent.   However,  studies financed by IDA
indicate that their exploitation is not presently economic. The heavy oil
deposits at Tsimorora are also being reviewed with IDA assistance in order
to establish their potential foe commercial exploitation, though once
again, market conditions do not suggest early production from this
resource.
1.12     Coal, Lignite and Peat.  The area of greatest interest for coal is
the Sakao basin with estimated reserves of 1,000 million tonnes and
mineable reserves wltt. moderate ash, medium volatile steam coal estimated
at 173 million tonnes, of which 82 million tonnes are recoverable by
underground methods, and 23 million tonnes by open pit methods.   The
principal lignite resources occur in the Anteirabe region of the central
highlands. Recent estimates indicate proven reserves of 11 million tonnes
and possible reserves of 32 million tonnes. Lignite is not of sufficient
quality to justify mining hence there appears to be no foreseeable economic
future for the resource.   On the other hand, peat occurrences are common
and it is used widely for brick making.   Peat resources have not been
investigated though there is potential for significant discoveries.
1.13        Forests.  The contiguous natural forest cover is estimated at
12.3 million ha. Plantations add a further 265,000 ha. On the assumption
that only 20X of the natural forest is economically accessible under
environmentally sound management practices, the estimated sustained annual
yield is about 2 million toe, compared with a gross annual consumption of
about 1.7 million toe. Unfortunately, there are regional imbalances which
render meaningless the apparent surplus of 0.3 million toe.   In fact,
demand for woodfuels is concentrated in the central highlands, in the
hinterland of Antananarivo, Antsirabe and Fianarantsoa, where there is a
sbortfall between accessible sustainable production and regional demand of
about 0.6 million toe (1.9 million tonnes of wood) per annum. Production
surplus to demand in other regions cannot be economically transported to
the central highlands demand centers.
1.14      Other Biomass Resources.  Madagascar's main agricultural crop is
rice which generates annually cellulosic residues of about 4.6 million
tonnes.   Some 500,000 tonnes of these residues are rice husks which are
largely disposed of as wastes, except in the Lac Aloatra region where about
half are used for fueling boilers to provide shaft power for rice milling.
The remainder there and in the immediate hinterland of major cities could
be briquetted for household fuel production, and used as a substitute for
firewood and the low quality charcoal presently marketed.   Sugar crop
residues are another potentially economic source of industrial and
household fuel, or for the production of electricity surplus to sugar mill
needs for regional sale in public distribution systems.  Bagasse and cane
field residues offer long term potential for power and energy production of
about 90,000 toe annually.   Other crop residues are judged not to be
economically accessible in the foreseeable future.
Energy Demand
1.15        Energy Balances and Trends.   A national energy balance for
Madagascar for 1983 is provided in Annex l.1. Table 1.1 provides a summary
of this Annex with projections of demand for all fuels through 1995. Total



- 6 -
energy consumption is projected to increase by almost 50% over the 12 year
period, 1983-1995, from 1.65 million to 2.46 milllon toe, representing an
annual growth rate of 3.4%. Consumptlon is expected to Increase faster in
industry and transport, by 5.7% and 4.3%, respectively, as these sectors
recover from recent slumps and as the infrastructure expands. Electricity
and petroleum utilization increases of 6X and 4.52 respectively are
forecast in this projection, with boiler electrification being a major
factor in the increase in electricity consumption  (paras.  4.02-4.05).
However, the great bulk of energy use throughout the period is In the form
of woodfuels, being 80% of final energy in 1983 and 76% in 1995.
Table 1.1:  FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY ENERGY FORM AND SECTOR,
1983 AND 1995
Annual
Percentage         Growth
Consumption             of Total           Rate
Energy Form/Sector       1983       1995        1983       1995      1983-95
-  toe thousands -       -        percent
Woodfuels                1323.1     1854.4       80.2       75.5        2.9
Fuelwood              (1201.8)   (1642.0)    (72.8)      (66.8)      (2.6)
Charcoal               (121.3)    (212.4)      (7.4)      (8.6)      (4.8)
Petroleum Products        241.3      411.0       14.6       16.7        4.5
Electricity                78.2      158.3        4.7        6.4        6.1
Coal                        7.5       34.0        0.5        1.4       13.4
Total                    1650.1     2457.7      100.0      100.0        3.3
Households               1375.1     1935.8       83.3       79.5        2.9
Transport                 141.4      233.8        8.6        9.6        4.3
Industry and Others       133.6      2 8.1        8.1       10.9        5.7
Estimated Traded
Portion of Fuelwood      43.0       80.5
Source: Bank Estimates
Energy Supply
1.16       Electric Power.   Electricity supply is discussed in detail in
Chapter IV.  Electricity supply in Madagascar was 68% from hydropower in
1985, and by 1995 this proportion is expected to increase to 84%.
Rehabilitation of the Volob6 hydropower plant serving the Toamasina region,
the planned construction of the Ambodiroka hydropower plant to serve the
demands of the Mahajunga region, and increased utilization of the
Andekaleka hydropower plant in the interconnected zone will be responsible
for this significant expansion in the use of hydropower. Interconnection
of major power systems in the longer term should stabilize supply and
Improve utilization of hydropower capacity, substituting for petroleum-
fueled generation.



- 7 -.
1.17          Petroleum and Petroleum Products.   Madagascar is entirely
dependent on imports for Its petroleum supply, both crude and refined
products. Net petroleum Imports were 31% of total merchandise imports in
1983 and absorbed 52% of non-energy export revenues, 3/ up from 13% and
15% respectively in 1978, in spite of a decline in petroleum ilport volumes
during this period.  In 1983 crude oil cost US$82.7 million and refined
products cost US$63 million.  Preliminary indications for 1985 imports are
US$15 million  for crude and US$41 million  for refined products:    a
substantial reduction due both to reductions in the price of refined and
crude products and to reductions in absolute volumes imported and stock
reductions.   Madagascar obtains its crude oil through a Government-to-
Government arrangement with the Soviet Union and precise details of this
arrangement remain confidential. It is believed that the indicative price
was about US$22/bbl in mid 1986, considerably above world market prices,
but credit and foreign exchange requirements are softened by virtue of
special payment terms and conditions. Refined product needed to supplement
refinery production in meeting Madagascar's demand is procured on the open
market at CIF prices more than 25% above those available if foreign
exchange were not a constraint.   At present,  SOLIMA,  the State-owned
petroleum parastatal, is forced to buy late and short, because it does not
have a sufficient credit rating to permit it to engage major suppliers in
competitive bidding, based on optimal procurement and transport packages.
The proposed project includes a study to review the options to minimize the
cost of petroleum products, including procurement of crude and products.
1.18        Imported crude is refined at the port of Toamasina, at the
Government owned refinery operated by SOLIMA, the company formed by the
Government in 1976 to take over petroleum supply, refining, distribution
and marketing from local affiliates of a number of major foreign oil
companies. The refinery has a capacity of 16,800 bpd (750,000 tpy) and is
equipped with a new 350,000 tpy visbreaking unit, a 165,000 tpy gas oil
hydro-sulfurization unit and a 20,000 tpy bitumen unit. The refinery is in
a deteriorated condition as a result of a long period of operation without
adequate spare parts and a subsequent fire in the topping furnace in 1983,
after which it was temporarily shut down, and more recently, operated below
full capacity. The GOM plans a major program of refinery rehabilitation
pending the availability of required foreign exchange financing, in which
CCCE has expressed an interest to participate, though no firm arrangements
have been made. Although petroleum products are still widely available,
port handling, storage, coastal transport and inland distribution systems
are in a badly deteriorated condition due to lack of spare parts and
suboptimal storage and handling arrangements, leading to large product
losses through multiple handling and evaporation. The study of petroleum
import options included in the project would also review the future role of
the refinery and include preparation of a master plan for petroleum
distribution, expansion, and rehabilitation, and the organization and
incentive system to effectively distribute petroleum products throughout
the country.
3/ Fuel oil surplus to country requirements is re-exported from the
Toamasina refinery.



-8-
1.19        Petroleum prices remain above border prices; e-en with recent
devaluation, though the relationship between prices and economic costs is
changing rapidly due to exchange rate and global petroleum price varia-
tions. Government policy is to discriminate in pricing against high-income
users in favor of low-income and productive end-uses.   However, it is
unlikely either that families using kerosene for cooking are low-income, or
what heavy discrimination against gasoline is economically productive at
the margin.   Diesel-engined vehicles are more expensive, and the policy
currently leads to the use of kerosene in blends with gasoil and gasoline,
resulting potentially in higher engine wear and serious loss of fuel
economy.   A review would be made by the Direction of Energy and Water,
MIEM,  as  part  of  proposed  petroleum  planning  studies,  of  possible
alternative pricing policies which might avoid the worst aspects of the
present distortion while maintaining tax revenues and achieving economi-
cally sound policy objectives.
1.20      Biomass Fuels.  Declining physical accessibility of woodfuels of
acceptable quality over the past decade is strongly reflected in price
trends in the open market. Prices of firewood and charcoal in Antananarivo
appear to have increased by 50X and 30%, respectively, in real terms over
the 1973-1984 period.   Since 1984, the Bank has monitored firewood and
charcoal prices at selected retail outlets in Antananarivo and had found
that firewood prices have risen 13-15%, and charcoal about 5% per annum, in
real terms, during the past two years.  However, recent IDA time series
analyses, which applied more accurate inflation data, cast doubt that
pricet have actually been increasing significantly in real terms. Detailed
woodfuels supply-demand projections were made by the Joint UNDP/World Bank
Madagascar Energy Assessment. Without a series of possible interventions
identified by IDA, sbme of which are supported through this project, the
deficit between sustainable supply and demand in the hinterland of
Antananarivo will grow from 1.3 million to 2.2 million tonnes of wood
equivalent over the next decade.   The supply demand imbalance projected
will lead to loss of oome 1.5 million ha of natural forest cover by 1995,
some 12% of present contiguous forest cover.  It is neither a conceivable
nor a feasible option to reforest at a rate to avoid potentially serious
negative effects of anticipated deforestation, although a combination of
improved forest management, community or agroforestry, recovery of fuel
quality residues surplus from wood processing, logging and existing
industrial wood plantations, as well as growing use of modern fuels and
higher cooking efficiency, could greatly ameliorate impending problems. As
a component of this project, IDA would support the utilization of thinnings
and other residues from the Haut Mangoro pine plantation, commercial trials
of rice husk briquetting, improvements to traditional carbonization
efficiency, improved household energy planning, and interventions to
improve cooking efficiency through the use of improved stoves and the
introduction of electric rice cookers, all as private sector initiatives.
II* THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Organization
2.01        JIRAMA is the sole agency in Madagascar responsible for elec-
tricity production and supply, and is also responsible for potable water
supply.  Until 1973, responsibility for power supply was vested with two



-9-
major companies, privately owned Electricit6 et Eau de Madagascar (EEM) and
a company in which the Government had a majority share-holding:   Soci4t6
d'Energie de Madagascar (SEM), which operated supply mainly in the
respective municipalities. These two major companies also operated public
water supplies in their service areas.  In 1973 the Government took over
SEM and EEM, managing the combined entity temporarily under the Soci6t6
d'Interft National pour l'Eau et l'Electricite, and then in 1975,
established the autonomous Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation
(JIRAMA), to own and operate all electricity and water supply. Finally, on
January 1, 1977, JIRAMA took over the assets and liabilities of the former
entities, in addition to the long term debt to Government in respect to the
compensation of related foreign interests. JiRAMA was at first responsible
to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, but in the early 1980s became the
responsibility of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines. Chapter III
contains further details on the management and origin of JIRAMA and its
links with Government.
Sector Facilities
2.02        The major electric power facilities have been constructed to
international standards. However, serious lack of foreign exchange for the
procurement of spare parts has led to severe deterioration of physical
plar- and increasingly frequent and economically disruptive outages.
Sustained power supply in several major towns and cities is now seriously
jeopardized.    This  problem  has  been  further  exacerbated  by  recent
cyclones.   Cyclone Kamisy caused severe damage to central highlands and
west coast facilities, especially in the Mahajunga supply zone, in 1984,
and in March 1986 cyclone Honorina caused damage to distribution, transmis-
sion and generation facilities.  The majority of funding proposed for the
power subsector in the proposed project is for rehabilitation of diesel and
hydropower generation,  and for transmission ane distribution facilities
with the objective to improve reliability of supply and to create a sound
basis for later power system expansion (para. 5.07).
2.03        Although the public power supply system is managed by JIRAMA,
private sector captive supply is significant with 23% of total installed
capacity, a sizeable proportion of which is within the sugar industry.
Table 2.1 indicates the ownership of power plants.  In the region of the
capital of Antananarivo, supply is through a large interconnected system
presently responsible for over 63% of public electricity sales. The total
installed capacity in Madagascar is 267 .AW, if which 105.5 MW is
hydropower, about 139 MW is diesel and 22.4 MW is steam turbine driven
generators. Supply is divided into three groups as per Table 2.2 (IBRD Map
18816).
Table 2.1:  GENERATING CAPACITY BY OWNERSHIP IN 1985
Hydro,       Thermal and Diesel          Total
MW      %          MW        %          MW       %
Public Supply           105.5   51.5        99.4    48.5        204.9    76.8
Private Supply                               62.1                62.1    23.2
Total Country           105.5   51.5        161.6    60.5       267.0   100.0



- 10 -
2.04     The main electric power generating facilities are listed in Annex
2.1 and summarized in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: GENERATING CAPACITY IN MADAGASCAR, 1985
Hydro       Diesel        Thermal       Total
Units  MW    Units  MW    Units  MW    Units  MW
Interconnected Zone       16   92.4     13  34.5      -    -        29  126.9
External Zone             12   13.0    135  63.1      -    -       147   76.1
Isolated Zone              2    0.1     21   1.8      -    -        23    1.9
Public Sector           30  105.5    169  99.4                   199  204.9
Private Sector             -    -       64  39.5      6  22.4       70   62.1
Total Country             30  105.5    233 138.9      6  22.4      269  267.0
Access to Service
2.05      All urban centers are served by electricity from public supply.
The urban population is estimated to be 19% of the total of 10 million
(1986). However, less than one-third of the urban population is actually
connected to electricity, wbich represents about 6% of the total
population. Extension of supply within the ICS and other low cost supply
zones is a high priority component under the proposed IDA project.   Per
capita consumption of electricity from the public supply system was about
33 kWh/year which, given substantial private sector production, is an
underestimate of the true national average. Madagascar's consumption is of
the same order as that of Tanzania, and above that of the poorer countries
of the region, such as Ethiopia and Uganda. However, it is about one-half
and one-third of that for Malawi and Kenya, respectively, lndicating that
the relative level of electrification is very low by regional standards,
despite the availability of low-cost indigenous power resources.
Pattern of Electricity Consumption
2.06        Public electricity consumption by major system and consumer
category is shown in Table 2.3. In the ICS consumption was about 204 GWh,
or about 64% of the total in 1985.
Table 2.3: MADAGASCAR: PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION BY
CONSUMER CATEGORY, 1985
ICS        External Z.   Isolated Z.           Total
Category         GWh       %     GWh      Z    GWh       Z      GWh        X
Residential     61.1   30.0    20.3   18.0    0.8   41.5        82.2   25.8
Commercial      44.2   21.7    18.1   16.0    0.8   41.5        63.1   19.8
Industrial      98.3   48.3    74.6   66.0    0.3   17.1       173.2   54.4
Total          203.6  100.0   113.0  100.0    1.9  100.0       318.5  100.0



- 11 ~-
Power Subsector Planning
2.07      Power system development planning has been carried out by JIRAMA
without the assistance of consultants.  Any development plans prepared by
JIRAMA are presented to the Department of Energy and Water, MIEM, reviewed
there and then discussed with the DGP before being incorporated in the
Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP).   However, the company has not
routinely undertaken comprehensive power system planning as it lacks
suitably trained and experienced personnel and until recently was not
structured to facilitate systematic planning for power supply development
and management.   As a result there has never been a comprehensive least
cost expansion plan as the basis for review annually, or more frequently,
as a regular part of management review and budgeting.   Similarly, load
forecasts have been, for the most part, simple linear projections based on
historical  performance.    The  proposed project would  include technical
assistance and training to strengthen the new Direction of Economic Studies
and Planning and the Direction of Electrical Equipment, which is the
division responsible for the final feasibility study and implementation
management for major power system development. The proposed project would
also fund the first national power sector master plan and related
investment programming and tariff studies, projecting the needs for system
development beyond the year 2000, and laying the foundation for rolling
annual review and revision of plans and investment programs by JIRAMA.
2.08      In part as a result of planning weaknesses, and in part through
direct Government intervention, there has been both overinvestment in
capacity and overestimation of demand, leading to a dramatic oversupply of
generation capability in certain regional centers and little otilization of
availalle hydropower in the main ICS. This has led, in turn, to lower than
expected revenue, resulting in poor financial performance for the utility.
Perhaps the most serious problem arises from the large surplus in hydro-
power capacity contributed by the Andekaleka Hydropower plant (2x29 MW) in
the ICS feeding the Antananarivo region.  Load growth in the ICS did not
grow as anticipated during the economic evaluation of the Andekaleka
project in the late 1970s, largely because the economy has been stagnant to
declining in comparison with the moderate growth foreseen at the time. In
particular, a large number of planned industries did not materialize.  In
1985 only 180 GWh of the 500 GWh average annual availability of this hydro-
power plant was utilized.   The GOE and JIRAMA are revising commercial
policies for electricity connections to promote the use of electricity
wherever financially and economically attractive.  Such measures would be
supported by the proposed project.   Furthermore,  there  is a need for
comprehensive power system rehabilitation. However, apart from the absence
of a planning framework for system expansion, there is no economically
sound methodology being practiced by JIRAMA to establish priorities for
rehabilitation in the face of ongoing scarcity of equipment and materials.
Modern  maintenance  scheduling  and  planning  for  decision-making  on
priorities for implementation of the proposed major rehabilitation program
are addressed in detail in the proposed project. The initial review phase
leading to rationalization of diesel generation facilities would also
assist with a revaluation and computerization of the asset base and the
establishment of computerized spare parts inventory.



- 12 -
2.09        During appraisal,  agreement was reached on reasonable load
forecasts, and an indicative or "Reference Power Sector Investment Prograu"
(RIP) for the 1986-1992 period, was established in advance of more detailed
load forecasting and system expansion planning which would be undertaken as
part of the proposed project. Agreements were obtained during negotiations
that: (i) JIRAMA would not, until the completion of the project, undertake
any major change in the Government's RIP agreed with IDA unless JIRAMA
shall have furnished evidence satisfactory to IDA that such major project
or program is economically and technically justified and, (li)  the RIP,
which would cover at least five years, would be reviewed annually by March
31, or as needed, and revised as required. Major changes would be those
requiring capital expenditure which would exceed 1X of JIRAMA's gross
revalued assets in operation in any fiscal year, or two million dollars,
whichever is the lower.
Power Subsector Objectives
2.10      The main objectives of the power subsector arising from discus-
sions between JIRAMA, the Government and IDA are:   (i) to improve the
reliability of production and supply of electricity throughout the country
in accordance with agreed national economic and social objectives; (ii) to
ensure that electricity supply is provided at least cost; (ili) to increase
the use of indigenous sources of electricity wherever economically
justified; (iv) maximize the utilization of existing low cost sources ci
supply from existing production capacity.
Power Subsector Strategy
2.11       The following strategy represents the position of the GOM and
JIRAMA in attempting to fulfill the main power sector obJectives:  (i) to
develop indigenous energy resources, such as hydropower and biomass
residues, for electricity generation in place of more expensive imported
fuels; (ii) to interconnect supply zones to make more efficient use of
existing and prospective major hydropower plants and to stabilize and
minimize the cost of power supply; (iii) to increase system reliability and
reduce power losses through improving operation and maintenance and
rehabilitating existing facilities; (iv) to regulate tariffs and take other
financial measures necessary to meet financial objectives; (v) to promote
the  utilization  of  electricity  where  economically  and  financially
desirable, through increasing the number of consumers and designing
programs of interfuel substitution in industry for electrifying heat and
steam production; (vi) to undertake least-cost power system expansion
planning and to carry out detailed feasibility studies for economically
attractive major power developments.
Aid Inflow and Coordination in the Sector
2.12       Bank participation in the sector has been substantial, though
limited to one major hydropower project:   Andekaleka.   To finance this
project a substantial cofinancing effort was made leading to a financing
package which included the Abu Dhabi Fund, Banque Arabe de D6veloppement
Economique en Afriq-e (BADEA), Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE), Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), Kuwait Fund, and
the Saudi Development Fund. However, despite the number of donors involved



- 13 -
in financing Andekaleka, CCCE is the only donor which has continued to
support power subsector development consistently with several small loans,
the most recent of which being considered is for US$2 million equivalent
for the proposed Tana Sud 63 kV transmission ring. Aid flow has otherwise
been modest and JIRAMA has had to resort to short term suppliers' credits
to finance recent diesel power plant expansion, which was itself, in retro-
spect, a low priority use of foreign exchange.  Hence, foreign assistance
has been inadequate to meet subsector requirement; a limitation whicb has
been further exacerbated by natural disasters, including floods and
cyclones. Finally, weaknesses in planning and overt Government interven-
tion in investment decision making has led to an imbalanice in investment
between generation expansion and rehabilitation of existing facilities,
which continue to deteriorate rapidly.
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
3.01    The implementing agencies would be JIRAMA for the power components,
FANALAMANGA for the pine carbonization project, and the five Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) under the coordination of the PMU in the MIEM
for the energy components of the project.   Implementing agencies and the
institutional arrangements are presented in Annex 3.1.
JIRAMA
3.02      JIRAMA is an entirely state-owned corporation, created in 1975 to
own and operate all public electricity and water supply facilities.  In
that context JIRAMA may undertake all relevant activities, including the
acquisition of other water and power companies in the country, and the
creation of subsidiaries. This flexibility has enabled JIRAMA to absorb,
consolidate, and merge into one company the numerous independent utilities
in existence prior to its own creation.
3.03      Organization and Management.  JIRAMA has an eighL-member Board of
Directors, which is appointed by the Government and includes four members
from the Ministries of Energy, Interior, Labor, and Agriculture and non-
government appointees. A Director General, also appointed by the Govern-
ment, is responsible for day-to-day management. Although it is under the
formal supervision of MIEM, JIRAMA has reasonable autonomy to conduct its
day-to-day affairs without undue interference by Government.   However,
Government has directed JIRAMA to make investments in power supply for
major projects which have not materialized or which will not use power at
the planned level, leading to serious overinvestment in generation
capacity. The company is also subject to tight controls regarding foreign
exchange allocations which require the approval of MIEM, the Ministry of
Finance, and the Central Bank.   The Government further exercises strict
control over electricity tariffs, and tariff changes require cabinet
approval.    JIRAMA  has  recently  undergone  a  reorganization,  whereby
responsibilities have been more suitably regrouped by function rather than
on the previous basis of geographical areas. Also, a greater decentraliza-
tion of day-to-day management within reinforced regional administrative
entities is envisaged with respect to personnel, customer management and
inventory control.   Furthermore,  all planning activities and economic
studies, previously dispersed in seve:al departments, have been consoli-
dated within a single Department of Economic Studies and Planning, for



- 14 -
which a technical assistance program is proposed under the project (para.
5.07(e)). Managerial efficiency of the company continues to be constrained
by infrastructural and logistical shortcomings. For example, management in
Antananarivo is dispersed in 17 buildings, telecommunications equipment at
the local level is limited and obsolete, communications between the regions
and the center are difficult, and the situation of the vehicle fleet is
critical.  Programs for the modernization of the vehicle fleet and of the
telecommunications system are part of the proposed project (para.
5.07(d)).  In order to overcome present deficiencies ii the relationship
between the Government and its wholly-owned parastatal, JIRAMA, which until
recently have implied ongoing financial dependency, limited tariff
management autonomy and increasingly costly and poor quality service, it is
appropriate for the Government and tIRAMA to consider a complete review and
reform of their commercial and administrative relationship.   The GOM has
taken important steps towards such a reform package through the measures to
be adopted for financial restructuring of JIRAMA in parallel with the
processing of the proposed Credit. Building on these financial reforms, it
is appropriate for the GOM to develop and adopt a more all-embracing
compact  defining  specific  objectives,   mutual  responsibilities  and
obligations that would lead JIRAMA not only to financial autonomy, but also
to a greater degree of management autonomy based on a commitment to
Government to achieve certain minimum performance criteria consistent with
increasingly  reliable  and  high  quality  service  at  least  cost.    At
negotiations, Government and JIRAMA would agree to prepare and present for
IDA review by December 31, 1987 such a compact or "contract plan".
3.04     Planning.  Due to a shortage of suitably experienced and qualified
staff and a lack of data processing equipment and computer software, JIRAMA
has been unable to prepare appropriately detailed load forecasts and a
system expansion plan and investment program.  These deficiencies will be
alleviated under the proposed project (see paras. 2.07, 5.07 and
Annex 5.2).
3.05     Engineering and Design.  Although JIRAMA has a number of qualified
engineers on its staff, to date its design activities have been limited to
the distribution and sub-transmission level, with assistance from
consultants  on major projects.   During construction of the Andekaleka
project, JIRAMA construction crews satisfactorily completed the erection of
the 175 km, 138 kV transmission line to Antananarivo, with guidance from
consultants.   Installation of all distribution facilities was completed
without outside technical help.   However, because of the large volume of
engineering work required, JIRAMA should employ consultants to assist in
procurement and supervision in order to ensure successful project
completion, and funds have been included in the proposed project for this
purpose,
3.06    Operations and Maintenance.  The electric power facilities are not
well maintained primarily because of the lack of funds for spare parts but
also due to the lack of training in modern preventive maintenance programs.
In consequence, supply outages in the ICS and External Zone (ZE) are
increasingly frequent and disruptive of industrial and commercial activity,
and a large proportion of diesel electric generating plant is unservice-
able.   This is a particular problem with diesel engines which, without
routine maintenance, become unreliable long before their expected service



- 15 -
life.   Thus, a component of this proposed project includes not only the
provision of spare parts, but also the training of maintenance personnel
and the establishment of equipment monitoring and repair techniques.
3.07       Data Processing.  At present JIRAMA does not have any internal
data processing equipment such as micro-computers for basic statistical
analysis and management information reporting. Data processing is carried
out by SOMAGI, a public enterprise for computer services.   However, the
role of SOMAGI in the evolution of computerization of data processing in
JIRAMA is to be reviewed as part of the proposed project and in
coordination with CCCE technical assistance to JIRAMA.   SOMAGI performs
customer billing, financial accounting and analytical accounting. With the
decentralization of management on a regional basis, additional equipment of
sufficient capacity to handle (i) inventory control; (ii) maintenance
management; and (iii) regionalized computerized customer billing, is
proposed under the project (para. 5.07(d)).  The proposed equipment would
be micro-computers and communication with the center would be via
diskettes.
3.08        Billing and Collection.   Meters are read once a month.   The
readings are sent to SOMAGI, where batch programs issue the bills on the
20th of each month. Ten to fifteen percent of the customers pay directly
to the collector distributing the bill, 6.5% by automatic withdrawal from a
bank account, 13% by check, and the rest in cash at JIRAMA's registers.
Enforcement of payment for private consumers is quite strict.  Customers
that do not pay within 8 days of receipt of a special delivery reminder,
which in turn is sent 8 days after the original bill has been issued, are
disconnected. As a result, accounts receivable from private and industrial
customers are satisfactorily low.  JIRAMA on the other hand has not been
successful in collecting from Government agencies and municipalities.
Accounts receivable represent betweer 12-14 months of sales to these
consumer groups.   The proposed project requires that the totality of
arrears be settled half by June 31, 1987, and half by September 31, 1987,
(Table 6.3).
3.09      Accounting and Audit.  JIRAMA !aintains its books in accordance
with Malagasy accounting codes and regulatiou.  Many accounting functions
are computerized through SOMAGI;  notable exceptions  include asset and
inventory control, which will be addressed under the proposed project
(para. 3.09).  The auditor's report for the 1984 accounts contained several
qualifications  relating  to  and  recommending  (i)  improvement  of  the
inventory of assets and their valuation; (ii) reducing accounts receivable
in the Isolated Systems; and (iii) upgrading inventory valuation. JIRAMA
has been taking corrective actions in these areas and the audit report for
the 1985 accounts contained only a qualification regarding the upgrading of
inventory valuation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that JIRAMA
will continue to evploy qualified auditors and will send audited accounts
to IDA within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
3.10      Insurance and Taxes.  JIRAMA has satisfactory insurance coverage
of its plant and equipment against the risks of fire, theft, liability, and
accident. Breakdown of machinery Is insured in some instances. JIRAMA is
subject to a 36% tax on its net income as well as custom tariffs, import
duties, vehicle taxes, and a business tax. Prom its customers the company



- 16 -
collects for the Government an added value tax of 15% and a consumption
charge of FMG 5 per kWh (0.6 US/kWh).   JIRAMA is thus a rather highly
taxed utility. While it generates significant revenues for Goverrment, the
tax regime results in tariffs which are considerably higher than elsewhere
in the Eastern and Southern Africa Region.  Different consumer categories
pay different taxes and base tariffs for the same conFlumer groups vary
arbitrarily due co the historic tariff structure (para. 5.01(f)).  Reduc-
tion in the number of tariffs, and simplification of the application of
taxes through the billing structure, offer the potential for considerable
improvement in administrative efficiency and cost reductions.   Agreement
was reached during negotiations with JIRAMA and the Government that the
results of the tariff reform study will be jointly reviewed with IDA before
September 1988 and that the new tariff structure would be implemented not
later than January 1, 1989.
3.11      Personnel and Personnel Management.  As of mid-1986, JIRAMA had
about 4,100 employees of which about 325 or 8% were top and middle level
managers and professional staff, about 900 or 22% were lower level managers
and middle level staff, and the remaining 2,875 or 70% were lower level
employees. These numbers represent overall employment including the water
supply staff.   Considering that about half the staff are concerned with
electricity affairs, the staffing levels represent one employee per 58
customers which is a satisfactory ratio by regional standards, though
reduction to 65-70:1 should be sought and will be monitored by JIRAMA over
the next decade.   JIRAMA's salaries are reasonably competitive and the
company is generally able to attract suitable staff as necessary, although
JIRAMA is currently recruiting in a captive market. Most of the company's
professionals are graduates from the local university system and only very
few have been trained abroad.  A new evaluation system was introdaced in
August 1986 for all higher and medium level staff.   Based on performance
plans and subsequent evaluation reviews merit increases are allocated.
Individual training schedules are being established as precondition for the
next promotion step, and in the future managerial positions will be filled
from a company-wide pool of candidates. Personnel administration will be
decentralized as standardized recruitment, probation, promotion, and
related procedures are implemented.
3.12      Training.  JIRAMA's training activities are well organized.  An
orientation group chaired by the Director General deternines the annual
training objectives.   A training committee and specialized subcommittees
subsequently design specific training curricula. Most of the training is
provided through the in-house training facility; external training
represents 5%.  In 1985, 518 staff received 592 staffweeks of training,
equivalent to an average of about 0.5 staffweeks per eligible employee
(managers, professional and middle level staff).  Training a- oad has been
severely restricted due to lack of foreign exchange, and while JIRAMA's
staff is technically competent, it has to some extent been isolated from
the latest techniques. Therefore the project supports additional overseas
training based on an agreed training program.
3.13         Management Information System.   JIRAMA needs an appropriate
Management Information System which will help managers to identify problem
areas  early and  to take corrective action.   Such a system would be
developed and implemented under the proposed assistance to JIRAMA's



- 17 -
planning  department (para. 5.07(e)).   It would  establish  a number of
technical and financial performance indicators to be reviewed and agreed
with IDA in the course of the project.
3.14          Performance Indicators.   An indicative  set of performance
indicators is provided in Annex 3.2.  It will be used while the MIS is
definied and implemented.   These indicators are necessarily tentative as
they have been defined on the basis of preliminary estimates.
IV. THE MARKET
Electricity Market
4.01       Historical Market.  Electricity sales have grown sporadically
during the 1970s and 1980s.  Nationwide sales grew on average by 4.4% per
year between 1973-83, from 203 GWh to 313 GWh, though year to year growth
rates varied from 14% in 1979 to -1% in 1982 (Table 4.1).   The large
increase in 1979 was due to a 17% growth in industrial electricity consump-
tion as a result of a 13% increase in industrial output.  Similarly, the
period of virtually zero growth in 1980-82 was caused largely by a sharp
decline in industrial output. Growth in ICS sales was only about half that
of the other systems after 1983: 3.4% compared with 6.4%. Capacity demand
grew more rapidly than energy demand for the 1973-83 period, from about 30
MW to 45 MW, or 4.1% per annum.
Table 4.1: ELECirrY aIpexq, 1973-83
1973  1976  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983 1973-76 1976-79 1979-83 1973-83
-      Growth Rate (M)
ics a/
Sales, G)h      138.2 146.6 172.6 180.0 182.0 180.2 192.3   2.0   5.6   2.7   3.4
1mdmn Dend, MW 30.2  32.5  38.0  40.0  41.5  44.6  45.3   2.5   5.4   3.6   4.1
Other Areas
Sales, GWh       65.1  82.4 106.4 115.6 120.8 119.8 120.6  8.2   8.9   3.2   6.4
Total Sales, GWh  203.3 229.0 279.0 295.6 302.8 300.0 312.9  4.0   6.8   2.9   4.4
So: JER
4.02     Demand Forecast for Electricity in the Main ICS.  During prepara-
tion and appraisal of the proposed project, IDA missions undertook a
detailed review of power and energy demand for the main ICS and several
regional supply centers. Subsequently, IDA and the Government have agreed
on a load forecast for the the ICS, between 1985-1995, wherein demand is
expected to grow by 5.1% p.a. excluding the foreseen electric boiler load,
and by 7.5% per annum including boiler electriflcation (see para. 5.07).
It is acknowledged by JIRAMA that electric boiler loads made possible by
substantial surpluses of hydropower from the Andekaleka Hydropower Project
are not to form part of the justification for expansion of generation
capacity in the ICS in the longer term. Demand growth is expected to occur
as a result of the project through the provision of additional distribution
equipment and materials, and more flexible financing arrangements for
connections, to begin to meet the large backlog of consumer demand for



- 18 -
electricity supply service, as well as through a modest pilot program to
examine the market for electric rice cookers.   There is a cumulative
register of 10,000 applications for electricity supply, including 200
commercial undertakings, for whom connection has not been possible due to
shortages of distribution materials. Assumptions on which the ICS demand
forecast was based are provided in Annexes 4.1, and the detailed forecast
itself is in Annex 4.2.  The pattern of demand growth in 1980, 1985 and
projected for 1995 is presented in Table 4.2.   The composition of demand
did not change greatly between 1980 and 1985, though major changes are
expected over the next decade.  As a result of boiler electrification the
industrial share of electricity demand will grow disproportionately to 62%
of the total; household demand will also continue to grow strongly,
maintaining its share of the market, while the share of commercial demand
is expected to decline.
Table 4.2: JD0MA ICS: PATIERN OF MDMD, AC1ULAN) AM ECRED BY aOMii  CAM1'RY, 1980-9
Goth Rate             Growh Rate
FM8          mF5         FYBD-F85     FY95    FY85-FY95
Category         GWh    h    X   GWh    h    h    h       GJh   b    h
Residential       46        26   61         30   5.7    115        26    6.5
ormercil          40        22   44         22   2.2       55      12    2.2
Industral
Boilers         (0)   0  (0)  (0)   0  (0)              (97) 35 (22)
Other Industry   (94) 100  (52)  (98) 100  (48)   0.9   (177) 65 (40)   6.0
Total industry   94  100  52   98  100  48   0.9    274 100  62   10.8
Overall Tbtal Sales 180     100  204        100           w4      100
Total No. Qstomers  75,499     86,882                  129,000 (est.)
(in the ICS)
btal JInMa       119,888      138,416                  2D5,000 (est.)
4.03       Generation and Capacity Balances in the Interconnected System.
Actual and forecast peak demands in the period 1980-1995 are provided in
Annex 4.3.  Peak demand is expected to grow at the rate of about 7% per
aanum during the 1985-95 period due largely to the electric boiler program,
but also due to renewed growth.   Apart  from the backlog of domestic
connections, there are important opportunities to substitute electricity
for imported LPG in commercial cooking and for storage water heating. The
project itself, and new JIRAMA connection financing policies, will
stimulate growth in the domestic sector demand for electricity. Capacity
and energy balances for the ICS are provided in Annex 4.4. Present firm
available capacity has been confirmed from operational records for the
plant concerned.   The hydropower dominated system has experienced high
generating reliability to date, and the proposed project would provide for
spare parts and other works to maintain this record.   Hence, a reserve
margin established with the biggest unit out of service (22 MW firm) should
prove acceptable. With this reserve margin, corresponding to about 19% of
capacity reserve, capacity is sufficient up until 1995, although new
capacity would be required at the latest during 1995. Apart from slight
capacity expansions through efficiency improvements in existing hydropower,
this will require investment in new generating plant, interconnection with



- 19 -
other systems then in surplus, or both. A least cost expansion plan study
to be financed under the proposed project would form the basis of decision-
making regarding expansion of supply to the ICS. In the interim period, at
least until 1993, there is surplus capacity, and there are very substantial
energy surpluses-always in excess of 40% of demand--through 1995.   The
project seeks to promote means of utilizing these surpluses, as described
above, without catalyzing untimely and expensive new investments in
capacity.
4.04       Demand Forecast for Electricity in the External Zone.   The
External Zone (ZE) includes other major highlands centers as well as the
coastal towns. The largest are Mahajunga and Tollary on the west coast and
Toamasina on the east coast, the main port.  Between them, these centers
comprise almost 80% of demand in the ZE which, in turn, comprises about 36%
of total demand in the public supply system. Demand is expected to grow
modestly, averaging about 4% per year, in these major towns, due to the
depressed state of the small regional economies which have only moderate
prospects for industrial production and exports (Annex 4.5).
4.05       Demand Forecast for Electricity in the Isolated Zone.   The
Isolated Zone (ZI) is comprised of numerous very small do'wand centres
served by diesel plant and lies within the general supply area of the ICS.
In the longer term, as demand in these centres expands they will be
connected to the main grid, thus the ZI will always remain comparatively
small, and is presently about 0.5% of total public sector demand, growing
at about 10% per annum (Annex 4.5).
Household Fuels Market
4.06     Household energy comprised 83% of final energy consumption in 1983
and is projected to remain close to 80% of end-use through 1995 (see Table
1.1).  The estimate' composition of household energy consumption in 1979
and 1983, and that projected for 1995 is presented in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSUMPTION, ACTUAL AND PROJECTED, 1979-95
1979               1983                 1995
Energy Source          ktoe        %        ktoe      %         ktoe      %
Firewood               1074.8    87.4      1201.8   87.4       1688.8   84.6
Charcoal                99.8      8.1       121.3    8.8        212.8   10.7
Electricity              17.0     1.4        21.7    1.6         37.6    1.9
LPG                      4.2      0.3         1.7    0.1          4.0    0.2
Kerosene                34.5      2.8        28.6    2.1         51.4    2.6
Total              1230.3   100.0       1375.1  100         1994.6  100
Firewood for household cooking dominates the household portion of national
energy demand and, including charcoal, woodfuels serve 96% of national
household demand in final energy terms.   This situation is unlikely to
change over the next decade except that, with the rapid urbanization being
experienced, charcoal is projected to supply a greater proportion of final
cooking energy demand, reflecting the preference of a growing lower-middle
to middle income urban population.   Similarly, while remaining a small



- 20 -
proportion of total household energy demand, domestic use of electricity is
expected to expand as a result of recently revised commercial policies
designed to stimulate connection of consumers presently within the ICS
region, and through expanded use of electricity for cooking, both of which
are encouraged by the proposed project. Except where hydropower surpluses
exist, the use of petroleum fuels for household cooking is expected to
recover and exceed historical levels assuming more stable and efficient
operation of the refinery, or reduced petroleum product costs CIF, making
kerosene and LPG available at lower real prices during this period.
4.07     Cooking Fuel Supply and Demand: Antananarivo.  Antananarivo is by
far the largest marketplace for traded household cooking fuels and that for
which future supply portends the greatest economic burden on the country.
As noted in paragraph 1.20, sustainable supply of woodfuels to the Faritany
of Antananarivo is far less than demand, implying continued harvesting of
accessible prime forest with unknown but possibly serious environmental and
economic consequences for the sustained productivity of agricultural
ecosystems in its hinterland. Annex 4.6 provides estimates of actual and
projected supply and demand to the Faritany of Antananarivo, dominated by
the city i self, for the period 1980-1995. Woody fuels from aging fuelwood
plantations, natural forest and residues meet 96% of present demand in this
region, though with well planned utilization of other untapped and
potentially sustainable sources--such as residues from industrial pinewood
plantations, wood processing and logging operations, improved forest
management and woodfuel tonversion and end-use and expanded use of surplus
hydroelectricity-the  rate  of  deforestation  can  be  stabilized.    The
proposed project is supporting this objective through assistance for
production of charcoal from pine plantation thinnings and for expanded
electrification of cooking, and through a cooking efficiency program aimed
at designing and disseminating efficient wood and charcoal stoves.
4.08     Household Fuels Marketing.  Marketing of woodftsels is essentially
controlled by the private sector.   Similarly, despite publication and
purported regulation of official charcoal prices by the Government,
firewood and charcoal prices respond dynamically to the forces of supply
and  demand  in  the  open market.    The  only  active  interface  between
Government and private sector traders is through licensing by the
municipality concerned of urban retail outlets for charcoal and firewood.
Even so, substantial numbers of retailers appear to escape regulation,
licensing and the associated fees, which are charged per unit floor area
of the retail outlet.  The market price reflects the full cost of supply
(excluding the full economic cost of primary woodfuel production), plus any
profit taken at each stage in the supply chain. Generally, fees charged by
woodlot owners to firewood gatherers or charcoalers are well below the
replacement  cost of the resource.   A graphical representation of the
typical supply chains feeding charcoal and firewood to the urban household
market of Antananarivo is provided in Annex 4.7. The woodfuels business is
undertaken by a variety of entrepreneurs, from individuals engaged in
occasional production and marketing in the off-crop, season to medium-sized
organized charcoal production and trading compsaies.   The business is
highly competitive and evidence that the number of retail outlets for
charcoal has more than doubled in the 19809 in Antananarivo suggests that
it is expanding rapidly.   IDA missions have been monitoring prices in a
selection of retail outlets in Antananarivo over the past two years; the



- 21 '-
results show that there is marked seasonality in prices, and nominal prices
have increased sharply, though the underlying trend in real price increases
is observed by relatively poor data on inflation experienced by the
charcoal consuming group.
4.09     The project would provide for the production and marketing of at
least 5,000 tpy of charcoal from pine thinnings in the Haut Mangoro Pine
plantation and 1,500 tpy of experimental rice husk briquettes from rice
husks wastes of local milling plants. The marketing of these fuels would
either be under contracts negotiated between private sector producers or
managers of the production process and industrial consumers, such as the
cement manufacturer, CIMA, in Antsirabe, or through the regular wholesale
and retail trade described above. There are almost certainly opportunities
to reduce costs for present private sector traders and to improve the
efficiency of supply and marketing arrangements, such as through improved
access to credit for transportation and woodfuels production and conversion
equipment and materials, and through final effective deregulation of retail
marketing. Thus, the project includes a detailed and comprehensive review
of the woodfuels business in the Antananarivo region, and for Toliar and
Mahajunga, three important though quite different supply and trading
environments.   This component, which is part of a wider household energy
planning program IDA would finance (para. 5.07 (i)), modelled on a similar,
successful IDA-supported planning program in Ethiopia, would also establish
a regular network of market price monitoring for selected major centers.
Recommendations are expected to arise from this review on means to assist
the private sqctor to improve the efficiency of the business and to reduce
woodfuel costs.
V. INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT
Reference Power Subsector Investment Program (RIP)
5.01      IDA, JIRAMA and the Government held extensive discussions during
the project appraisal process to define a set of load forecasts for the ICS
and major regions and a Reference Power Sector Investment Program (RIP).
In the ICS, energy supply will exceed demand until about the year 2000.
However, capacity demand will exceed installed capacity in peak hours by
the mid-1990s.   No major investment in generation expansion is envisaged
for the ICS in the next 7 years. Hence, understanding and monitoring the
composition of peak demand, as well as peak load management techniques,
assume particular importance, and would be a critical element in planning
assistance envisaged under the proposed project.   In the ZE, the RIP
assumes that a start would be made on the Ambodiroka Hydropower Project by
1991, based on the ample economic justification for this project provided
by the prefeasibility study completed as part of preparation for the
proposed Energy I Project.   The only other major new plant envisaged in
the 1986-1992 period is a new diesel power station for the Nosy-BE region,
required in 1990-1991.   Finally, the major rehabilitation and moderate
expansion of firm capacity and energy of the Volob4 hydropower plant in the
Toamasina region might be regarded equally as a significant new development
of the long term power supply capacity of the ZE. The main issue between
IDA, the Government and JIRAMA in defining the RIP was the absolute level
and relative priority of rehabilitation works for both generation and



-22-
transmission. JIRAA preseated IDA with proposals for procurement of spare
parts far in excess of those recommended in the ESMAP Power Sector
Efficiency Audit report  (para.  5.06)  for the  1986-90 period.   After
discussion, the Government and JIRAMA agreed with IDA that limitations on
implementation   capability,   likely   subsector   donor   financing   and
uncertainties remaining over relative priorities of certain rehabilitation
works imposed a ceiling on the RIP. Accordingly, the agreed RIP was to be
regarded as a desirable minimum, and agreement would be sought during
negotiations that it would be reviewed annually by and with IDA throughout
the period of the proposed project, especially following the results of the
least  cost  expansion  planning  study  (para.  5.07(f)).    However,  if
additional subsector donor financing became available, the RIP could be
modified to include higher distribution and transmission investments.
The Program
5.02      The RIP for the period 1987-1991 is described in detail in Annex
5.1 and suumarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF REFERENCE POWER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM,
1987-1991 (FMG billions)
Total
Category                             Local    Foreign    Total        US$ mn
Generation
VolobG hydropower                   2.95       4.18       7.13        6.87
Aimbodiroka hydropower              1.00       5.00       6.00        5.78
Hydropower rehabilitation           0.81       6.08       6.89        5.98
New diesel power plant              0.36       2.20       2.56        2.22
Diesel rehabilitation               1.90      11.96      13.86       12.05
Transmission and substations         0.72       2.96       3.68        3.12
Distribution rehab./expansion        1.50      14.92      16.41       14.57
General plant and services           0.03       5.75       5.78        5.84
Institutional strengthening          0.26       1.03       1.29        1.27
Studies                              0.05       0.98       1.03        1.10
Total                             9.58      55.06     64.63        58.80
Energy I Project
Components portion                 4.99      42.71     47.38        42.27
5.03      Works in Progress.  Works in progress are as follows:
(a)   Generation:   Approximately US$1.7 million remained undisbursed
from Credit 817-MAG, 1978, for the Andekaleka hydroelectric power
project as of June 30, 1986, and funds from this Credit will be
used for additional radio communication facilities between the
station,  Antsirabe  and  Antananarivo  to  improve  operating
efficiency.  Some of thesc funds will be used to purchase other
miscellaneous material and spare parts. In addition, JIRAMA has
engaged local contractors to repair the road and power line from
the powerhouse to the dam, and to remove a small landslide near
the sub-station, all with local funds.  JIRAMA has also commenced
preliminary civil works on the Bezaha mini-hydro project, with a



- 23 -
grant of about US$105,000 equivalent from Fonds d'Assistance a Is
Cooperation (PAC), while CCCE will provide the equivalent of
about US$200,000 for mechanical and electrical equipment. In the
only other capital works project, JIRAMA is using its own funds
for the construct10n of a small dam to increase the reservoir
storage capacity of the Mandraka hydroelectric plant, at a cost
of FMG 67,243,000 (US$110,000).
(b)   Transmission and Distribution:  In 1983, CCCE loaned JIRAMA FF 64
million (US$9 million) for 15 years at an interest rate of 6X
with 5 years grace period, to be used for the purchase of spare
parts and miscellaneous repairs and equipment.   At the time of
field appraisal of the proposed project, the equivalent of
US$350,doo remained unspent.   Fonds Europeen de DEveloppement
(FED) have also contributed the equivalent of US$2 million for
material and equipment, which will be disbursed between 1986 and
1988.
(c) Studies: USAID and U.S. Trade Development Program (USTDP) have
provided US$15,000 and US$350,000 respectively for mini-hydro-
power and for the feasibility study of the Ambodiroka hydropower
plant, for which supplementary funding of US$150,000 is available
under the proposed Energy I Project, while the FED has provided
the equivalent of US$1.2 million for various mir.i-hydropower
feasibility studies throughout the country.
5.04      Future Projects.  CCCE has recently agreed to finance an urgently
needed 63 kV transmission line from the Ambohimanambola substation to the
Tana-Sud  substation  (20 km) including  the  63/35 kV  transformers and
switching at Tana-Sud, at an estimated cost of FF 19.5 million (US$2.75
million).  At present there is only one 63 kV line carrying power to the
city from the Andekaleka and Mandraka generating stations, and the proposed
line would be the first phase of a 63 kV ring around the city, which would
reinforce the 35 kV lines that feed Antananarivo.   Work is expected to
begin in 1987 with completion in 1989. The only new generating facilities
to be constructed in the immediate future would be the commissioning of
three 800 kW units in a new power station at Nosy-Be in 1990 to replace the
existing units which due to age are no longer reliable. A component of
this project would be funds to permit completion of the feasibility study
of the Ambodiroka hydroelectric generating station.   If proven feasible,
construction of this 13 MW plant would begin in 1991.
The Project
5.05       Project Objectives.  The broad objectives of the project are to
strengthen energy planning and investment programming in the Government, to
improve the soundness of financial management in the sector's parastatals,
to stimulate the efficient use of locally available and economically
accessible energy resources, and to maximize productive use of existing
sector  infrastructure  through  selective  programs  of  rehabilitation.
Specifically, the project aims to:
(a)   improve the reliability of electric power production and supply
throughout the country through carefully planned and executed
programs   of   generation,   transmission   and   distribution
rehabilitation;



- 24 -
(b)   increase the utilization of existing surplus capacity and energy
by expanding electricity distribution and by encouraging large
scale industrial end-uses of electricity wherever economically
justified;
(c)   strengthen  JIRAMA's  financial  autonomy  and  stability,  and
management systems efficiency;
(d)   develop within MIEM the capability to prepare and evaluate energy
sector policies, plans and investment programs for the sector as
a whole, and to initiate household energy subsector planning; and
(e)   strengthen  the capability of JIRAMA to evaluate and compare
competing options for power supply, to design and review
economically efficient maintenance programs, and to prepare least
cost power system expansion plans.
5.06       Project Preparation.  The present project scope and objectives
were largely formulated and agreed with the GOM during the course of the
Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment for Madagascar in late 1984
and 1985. The first phase of project preparation was undertaken under IDA
coordination by consultants financed by USAID, FAC, Swedish Agency for
International  Cooperation  (BITS),  Swiss  Government,  UNDP  and  FAO.
Analyses establishing the viability and conceptual design of the electric
boiler program were completed by Electricite de France in April. The Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program undertook a
power sector efficiency audit in Madagascar, which defined all diesel and
hydropower rehabilitation except for the Volobe hydropower plant, all
distribution   expansion,   and   most   transmission   and   distribution
rehabilitation  needs.    Terms  of  Reference  and work  scope  for  these
components will be presented to JIRAMA in December 1986, enabling
preparation for program implementation to proceed with the assistance of
consultants to JIRAMA to be financed under PPF. Subsequent to the damage
caused by Cyclone Honorinina to the Volob6 hydropower and Tamatave diesel
power stations, the design and specification of rehabilitation and
expansion of the Volobg plant was financed under the first of two PPFs, and
undertaken by Coyne et Bellier. During appraisal, IDA agreed to a second
PPF of up to US$500,000 for the provision of consultant services to
undertake Phase I of the generation rehabilitation program (see Annex 5.2,
page 1), which includes the detailed review, specification and preparation
of procurement documents for the supply of spare parts, equipment and
materials.   These will be prepared by June 1987.  The Haut Mangoro pine
charcoal feasibility study financed by USAID and UNDP was completed in July
1986, and has adequately prepared the project for implementation. Detailed
specification of the energy administration and household energy planning
technical assistance has been prepared by IDA with assistance from USAID
and FAC consultants. The Government has formally reviewed and agreed these
proposals and helped finalize project documentation,  including project
performance criteria, ready for implementation.  A feasibility study has
been completed for the rice husk briquetting project which is ready for
implementation.   Terms of reference have been agreed with the GOM for
industrial energy audits, the LAC Aloatra regional planning study, and for
hydropower feasibility studies, enabling implementation to proceed as soon
as funding is available.



- 25 -
5.07       Project Description.   The project components are described in
detail in Annex 5.2. The project consists of:
Power Components
(a)   Generation Rehabilitation and Expansion:   New generation plant
and power station for the Nosy-Be power supply zone. Repairs to
diesel plant in Mahajunga, the existing Nosy-Bg plant, and other
smaller stations, and spare parts for routine maintenance during
the period of the project in addition to critically needed
spares. Manandona, Mandraka and Antelomita hydropower generating
stations will be restored to full operational capacity and
economically justified repairs will be made to other small
hydropo,'er plant.
(b)   Transmission and ?tbstations:  Provision of lightning arrestors,
switchgear and spare parts, and expanded transformer capacity.
Completioia of the rehabilitation of the the 63 kV line between
Antsirabe and Antananarivo.
(c)   Distribution:   Distribution reinforcement and expansion in all
major centers through the provision of materials and spare
parts (see Annex 5.2, pages 3 and 6).   A pilot project is
designed to establish new design criteria to lower the cost of
distribution systems serving household and small commercial
consumers.
(d) General Plant and Services: About 100 vehicles, communications
systems, maintenance monitoring equipment for diesel plant, new
facilities for the meter laboratory, and computers and software
for maintenance management and asset inventory control and for
regionalization of computerization for consumer billing and an
asset revaluation analysis.
(e)   Power  Sector  Institution  Building:    About  51 man-months of
technical assistance for planning and manpower training and
development and up to 36 man-months of consultant services for
hydropower resource assessment and development management.
(f)   Power Sector Studies:  Least cost expansion planning studies and
tariff studies for the entire public power supply system, as well
as a hydropower project feasibility study.
Energy Components
(g)   Household  and  Industrial  Fuels:    Commercial  production  of
charcoal from pine plantation smallwood and residues and pilot
production of rice husk briquettes.
(h)   Energy Planning Support:  About 63 man-months of technical assis-
tance and consulting services, and equipment and materials would
be provided to strengthen energy planning and administration in
MIEM, and 118 man-months of technical assistance and consulting
services to support the development of household energy supply



- 26 -
and demand management strategies and interventions, and petroleum
supply and inland distribution studies and subsector investment
analyses.
(i)   Energy  Sector  Studies:  Industrial  energy  audits  and  energy
efficiency investment program preparation and a regional energy
planning study for the Lac Aloatra region would be funded.
Electric Boilers
(j)   Electric Boilers:    Installation of about  18 MW of electric
boilers  in  four  enterprises:    PAPMAD,  SOMACOU,  Savonnerie
Tropicale, and the Hilton Hotel made possible by hydropower
surpluses in the ICS. Boilers will be owned and operated by the
enterprises  concerned  (see  para.  5.13  for  implementation
arrangements).
Project Cost
5.08        Project costs are detailed in Annex  5.3 and summarized in
Table 5.2.  This table differs from Table 5.1 in that it represents that
part of the RIP for which IDA funds and cofinancing has been raised as part
of the project, as well as presenting funding for energy sector components.
Table 5.2: PROJECT COST SUMKARY
1NG billions         US$ millions
L     F     T        L     F      T
Base Cost
Civil Works, Equipment, Materials
and Installation
A. Power Project Components        3.78 37.01 40.79       3.40 33.26 36.65
B. Energy Project Components       0.10  0.63  0.73       0.10  0.66  0.76
C. Energy Institution Building    1.94  3.40  5.34        1.82  3.40  5.23
Subtotal                       5.82 41.04 46.86      5.33 37.32 42.64
Engineering and Administration      .0.77  1.80  2.57       0.77  1.71  2.48
Total Base Cost                     6.60 42.84 49.44       6.10 39.03 45.13
Contingencies
Physical                             0.40  2.67  3.07       0.37  2.60  2.97
Price                                0.43  2.75  3.18      0.35  2.33  2.69
Total Contingencies                 0.83  5.42  6.25       0.73  4.93  5.66
Duties and Taxes                      9.10 0.00  9.10        8.15  0.00  8*15
Subtotal                      16.52 48.26 64.78     14.98 43.96 58.94
Project Preparation Facility          0.00  0.71  0.71       0.00  0.87  0.87
TOTAL PROJECT COST        16.52 48.96 65.48     14.98 44.83 59.81
Nbte: Inconsistency in totals is due to computer rounding method.



- 27 -
The total cost of the proposed project,  includilg physical and price
contingencies and duties and taxes, and excluding interest during construc-
tion, is estimated to be about US$58.0 million, of which US$43.6 million
(75%) would be the foreign exchange cost. Base costs are as at January 1,
1987 price levels. Price contingencies assume local inflation of 17% for
1986-1988, and 15% for 1989-91.  Inte-.dtional inflation of 12% for 1986,
3%, 1987, 1.0%, 1988-90, and 3.5%, 1991, have been adopted. Adjustments in
project costs have been made to reflect recent devaluation and allowance
has been made for a further 20% devaluation during 1987.  The inflation
rates applied are considered appropriate for the kinds of goods and
services and works included in the project, and reflect recent experience
of JIRAMA and other Malagasy authorities for similar components.
ProJect Implementation
5.09       Procurement activities would take place under the second PPF
commencing with the employment of the consultants in March 1987. Their
preliminary assessment of the urgent needs for spare and replacement parts
would be followed by ths preparation of procurement documents. Work on all
components of the project would follow generally in accordance wvith the
detailed schedule attached as Annex 5.4.   The physical execution of the
project, including both energy and power subsector components, would start
in July 1987 and would be completed in December 1991.   There will be
project management units (PMUs) established within JIRAMA and the MIEM for
the project, although there will be close coordination between the MIEM
PMU, PIUs, and the JIRAMA PMU (para. 5.12).  The phasing of the project
described in para. 6.08 will have no disruptive effect on project
implementation. It is only the IDA credit of the Energy I Project which
would be phased, and the goods designated for release in phase II (see
Annex 6.6) are not essential to the early rehabilitation programs.
5.10     Implementation of Power Components   During project appraisal, the
GOM requested and subsequently received in August 1986 approval for a PPF
in the amount of US$500,000 to finance expenditures for the study and
design of the rehabilitation of the Volobe hydropower plant damaged during
cyclone Honorinina in March 1986.  Consultants Coyne et Bellier (France)
were subsequently retained to carry out this work, Following project field
appraisal the GOM requested in October 1986 a PPF additional to that
already approved for the engineering design of the Volobe plant in order to
ensure timely implementation of required power system rehabilitation by
preparing a list of replacement parts and spares, consumable items, tools
and vehicles, drafting related procurement documents, developing a
preventive maintenance program, assisting JIRAHA and the private sector
with the implementation of the electric boiler program, and assisting MIEM
with the establishment of the PMU.
5.11     The repair and rehabilitation of power facilities would be carried
out primarily by JIRAMA staff, aided in respect to major generating plant
rehabilitation by contractors.   Consultants would be retained for the
overall management and coordination of the generation rehabilitation
project, and they would be responsible to a Project Manager appointed from
within the JIRAMA organization (see para. 5.13). The Project Manager, with
secretarial and clerical support, would constitute the PMU for JIRAMA. It
was agreed at negotiations that the formal establishment of the PMU in



- 28 -
JIRAMA and the appointment of the Project Manager would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit. Work such as the rewinding of the
Volobe hydropower plant generators, and repair of some of the diesel
engines, would require experts from the original supplier of the equipment
to visit the project sites on an intermittent basis. JIRAMA has sufficient
skilled staff to carry out most repairs, although some structural work
would be let to small local civil contractors.   For the institutional
strengthening components of the power subsector portion of the proposed
project, a consulting company would be retained to provide a resident
advisor to the Planning and Economic Studies Division of JIRAMA, and to
assist with the coordination of back-up consulting services, and with
on-the-job training of JIRAMA staff in power systems planning.   Great
emphasis would be placed on direct participation by JIRAMA staff so that
they may receive'appropriate training during the project.
5.1,2    Implementation of Energy Components   The energy components would
be executed by various agencies under three ministries and the parastatal
agencies concerned. Final responsibility for coordination and supervision
during implementation would rest with the PMU of MIEM, the institutional
framework for which is described in detail in Annex 3.1.   Agreement was
reached during negotiations that, as a condition of effectiveness, the PMU
will have a Malagasy manager satisfactory to IDA and sufficient staff to
carry out its functions. MIEM's PMU Manager will report to the Director of
Energy and Water, and in turn to the Director General of MIEM.  The PMU
will be assisted by a steering committee of five members representing the
other divisions,  ministries,  and  agencies  involved,  including JIRAMA.
Following established practice in relations between JIRAMA and MIEM, the
MIEM PHU will review, record, and forward to IDA project implementation
documentation   and  disbursement   requests   for  the  power  subsector
components.   Each implementing agency would establish a focal point for
project implementation within their existing administrative framework,
hereafter referred to as project implementing units (PIUs). In all cases,
the PIU would consist merely of the officer responsible for the project
component in the executing agency. The PIUs to be established include:
(a)   Ministry of Livestock Production,  Water and Forests  (MPAEF):
carbonization efficiency improvement, sawmill and logging residue
assessments, woodfuel business review;
(b)   Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA): rice husk briquetting, agricul-
tural residue resource assessment;
(c)   FANALAMANGA: Haut Mangoro Pine Carbonization Project;
(d)   Division of Industry, MIEM: industrial energy audits;
(e)   Division of Energy and Water (DEE),, MIEM: energy planning support
and household energy planning program components (including
cooking efficiency).
The PMU would be the local counterpart for IDA and cofinancing agencies,
consultants, and contractors involved in the implementation of the energy
components and would handle all correspondence, progress reports, requests
for disbursement and procurement activities (Annex 3.1). During the execu-
tion of the energy components, the various ministries would be assisted by



- 29 -
experienced consultants and contractors who would work under terms of
reference  or technical  specifications  satisfactory  to  IDA.    Finally,
accounting for the energy components will be carried out by the PMU and
should be fully satisfactory to IDA. Anaual auditing would be performed by
external auditors satisfactory to IDA.  During negotiations agreement was
reached that IDA should receive accounts audited by independent auditors
within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
5.13        Implementation of Electric Boiler Program.  The electric boiler
program would be implemented by the four enterprises concerned-PAPMAD
(paper manufacturer), SOMACOU (textile manufacturer), Savonnerie Tropicale,
and the Hilton Hotel-with assistance from JIRAMA directed through the
JIRAMA PMU. Finance for the boilers will be directed through the National
Industry Bank (BNI). The foreign exchange portion will be provided by IDA,
and will be channelled through BNI, whereas BNI will provide local currency
financing from its own resources. The BNI is a major shareholder in PAPMAD
and SOMACOU.   The enterprises will bear the foreign exchange risk.  Each
enterprise has been visited by the EDF feasibility study team and by IDA
staff, and confirmation has been obtained that each is willing to install
electric  boilers  subject  only  to  satisfactory  electricity  supply
contracts. JIRAMA staff presented t1r-- enterprises with full documentation
of the technical and financial background to individual boiler proposals
six weeks after project appraisal to facilitate the negotiation o'f
electricity supply contracts. General terms and conditions of these supply
contracts are outlined in Annex 5.5 and were discussed with JIRAMA and the
enterprises.     Arrangements  and  agreements  being  sought  for  the
implementation of the boiler program and related conditionality are as
follows:
(i) JIRAMA and the enterprises will define and enter into
electricity supply agreements in stages linked to project
processing as follows:
- a draft or model contract of supply was presented to IDA at
negotiations as a condition of negotiations and,
- signed contracts of supply are to be presented to IDA as a
condition of effectiveness.
(ii) Government and BNI are to enter into an intermediary agreement to
permit foreign exchange to be channelled to the enterprises
wishing to install electric boilers on which BNI will be allowed
a 0.5% margin.   Such agreements would also provide that BNI
shall, if necessary, make a loan on its regular terms to the
enterprise, in which case the enterprise would have to carry the
foreign exchange  risk.    The  terms  and  conditions  of  loans
channelled  through  the  BNI  from  the  Central  Bank  to  the
enterprises in respect of the foreign exchange component at
negotiations are as follows: either (a) IBRD lending rates plus
10% of this rate, plus O.5% p*a. representing BNI's commission,
with the enterprises bearing full and direct foreign exchange
risk; or (b) the prevailing long term interest rate in Madagascar
plus a 3% p.a. margin to cover the foreign exchange risk.
- execution of this intermediary agreement between Government
__ &UT fITT? .tJ11  T_          ..P A -



- 30 -
(iii)  BNI and the enterprises will enter into lending agreements for
any local funds that cannot be provided from their own resources
both for the local cost components and for the foreign cost
components. In respect to local cost components, lending will be
on terms agreed with BNI and will not need to be reviewed with or
covered by any agreements with IDA.  Where loans are requested,
as opposed to the option of cash payment in local currency
equivalent for foreign exchange, the BNI will be bound under the
intermediary loan agreement (see (ii) above) to ensure that the
enterprises bear the foreign exchange costs. Loans covering the
foreign exchange component would be on terms satisfactory to IDA
as specified in the intermediary agreement.
JIRAMA has retained the service of Electricitg de Prance (EdF), the
designers of the boiler program, to help it and the enterprises formulate
rational and fair contracts. JIRAMA and its consultants would also assist
the enterprises with the preparation of technical specifications and
procurement documents for boilers and ancillary equipment, spare parts and
consumables which would preferably be procured in one package.
Consultin$ Services
5.14      The execution of the project would require consulting services,
over and above those provided in the PPFs advanced after appraisal (para.
5.10), for review of final design and preparation of bidding documents,
evaluation of offers and selected supervision during construction of the
power physical components, for the execution of the power system planning,
asset revaluation and computerization, and regionalization of computerized
billing components, for preparation and supervision of the physical and
planning components of the energy production and institutional strengthen-
ing components, and for energy and power subsector studies using procedures
satisfactory to IDA. The GOM and JIRAMA have agreed to retain consultants
in accordance with IDA guidelines; during negotiations agreement would be
reached that consultants satisfactory to IDA would continue to be employed
on the project.
Procurement
5.15      Many of the items to be purchased with funds from the IDA Credit
are proprietary in nature, and can only be supplied by the original manu-
facturer (eg. diesel engine parts). Thus, it would be necessary for JIRAMA
to purchase these parts directly from the suppliers for these items. The
total cost of items to be purchased in this manner is not expected to
exceed US$2.6 million (about 10% of the proposed credit). For other items,
specifications for materials and equipment would be assembled into groups
of similar items, and purchased either under IDA's procurement guidelines
for international competitive bidding for contracts expected to exceed
US$100,000, or for international shopping procedures for items under
US$100,000 where several suppliers would be invited to submit proposals.
Thus all contracts larger than US$100,000 would be subjected to IDA's prior
review. There would be several small civil works let to local contractors
through   competitive   bidding   advertised   locally   using   procedures
satisfactory to IDA.   A summary of procurement methods is presented in
Table 5.3.  Procurement for items of the project financed by other lending



- 31 -
Table 5.3:  P    B RKSW  MEKOD V/  (US$ millions)
NA.   Consul-   Cofitan-
Item                     ICB    LCB       Other b/    C/    tants d/  ciers    Ttal
Power Sector Com ts
Nosi-Be NwDiesel         -       -         -          0.3     -       1.9         2.2
Hydropowr Rohab.         2.9     0.5       0.6        0.2     0.2     -           4.4
(2.9)   (0.5)    (0.6)              (0.2)               (4.2)
Diesel Behab.            3.2    -          2.0        1.6     0.3     3.5        10.6
(3.2)    -       (2.0)              (0.3)               (5.5)
Transission              -       -         -          0.6     -       2.5         3.1
Electric Boilers         1.5     -         -          0.2     0.1     -           1.8
(1.5)                               (0.1)               (1.6)
Distribution             3.0     -         -          1.3     -       9.9        14.2
(3.0)                                                   (3.0)
Support Services el      0.6     -        -           -       0.5     2.0        3.1
(0.6)                               (0.5)               (1.1)
Vehicles                 1.7     -         -          -       -       -           1.7
(1.7)                                                   (1.7)
T.A. Plamning e/         0.4     -         -          0.3     0.4     -           1.1
(0.4)                               (0.4)               (0.8)
Training                 0.2     -         -          -       -       -           0.2
(0.2)                                                   (0.2)
Studies                  -       -         -          0.1     1.1     -           1.2
_                           + ' ~~~~~~~(.1)     (1.1)
Subtotal           13.5     0.5      2.6         4.6     2.6    19.8       43.6
(13.5)   (0.5)    (2.6)              (2.6)              (19.2)
Energy Sector Components
1. Energy Planning
ainistration         0.7     -        -           0.5     0.7     -           1.9
(0.7)    -        -                 (0.7)    -          (1.4)
Housebold Energy     0.6     -        -           1.6     1.0     -          3.2
(0.6)                               (1.0)               (1.6)
2. Energy Production
Charcoal e/          0.7              -           0.1     0.3     -          1.1
(0.7)                               (0.3)               (1.0)
Rice Hbsks e/        0.2     -        _           -       0.1     -          0.3
(0.2)                               (0.1)               (0.3)
3.  Energy Studies
Industrial Energy   -       -        -           -       0.6     -          0.6
-      -         -          -       (0.6)   -          (0.6)
subtotal            2.2     -        -           2.2     2.7     -          7.1
(2.2)                               (2.7)               (4.9)
PPF                                                           0.9                0.9
(0.9)              (0.9)
Overall Tbtal f/        15.7     0.5       2.6        6.8     6.2    19.8        51.6
(15.7)   (0.5)    (2.6)              (6.2)              (25.0)
a/  Aomts in parenthesis are IDA-financed.
b/ Proprietary spare parts that cmn only be purchased from manufacturers of original
equipment.
c/ Dopg and labor to be prvided by local implamnting agency.
d/ Consulting servyus tetained in icordance with IMA guidelines.
e/  Includes tralning aids   d equipment.
11 Does not Include duties and taxe



- 32 -
agencies would be purchased in accordance with those agenJies' normal
practices.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
5.16      Advance contracting would be required for urgently needed spare
parts for the two 8 MW diesel-driven generating units in the Tamatave III
diesel power station.  Until the cyclone of March 1986, these units were
rarely operated as the fertilizer plant to which they were to supply power
had not begun operation.   Now that the Volob6 generating station is
inoperative, the Tamatave III station is needed to supply power to the port
city of Toamasina.  Without additional spare parts and consumable items,
estimated to cost US$330,000, there would be restrictions in regional power
supply until VolobG can be returned to full service.   An amount not
exceeding US$500,000 would be used for retroactive financing.
Financing Plan
5.17     The total foreign exchange cost of the project is US$44.8 million,
of which IDA would finance US$25 million equivalent, and cofinanciers would
finance US$19.8 million.   Cofinanciers are the European Investment Bank
(EIB), US$14.4 million, and BADEA, US$5.4 million. However, financing has
been obtained for the entire power subsector RIP which, in addition to the
above-mentioned cofinancing, includes parallel financing by CCCE, US$13.5
million, and from the Swiss Government, US$1.5 million. 4/ Local project
costs total US$15.0 million equivalent of which JIRAMA would finance
US$10.5 million equivalent and GOM US$4.3 million equivalent.   Local
currency requirements for the power subsector components would be provided
by JIRAMA from its operations, for the Energy Planning Support and the
Household Energy Planning Program charcoal and rice husk briquetting
components by USAID through the application of PL480 funds, and by the
Government for the remainder of the energy components. Local funds for the
electric boiler component would be obtained by the firms concerned through
local commercial borrowing.  Table 5.4 summarizes the financing plan for
which further detail is provided in Annex 5.6.
5.18       During negotiations, agreement was reached (i) that Government
would onlend to JIRAIA part of the proceeds of the proposed credit at 1.1
times the IBRD interest rate at the time of board presentation and 20 years
repayment after a 5 year grace period, and (ii) that BNI would act as an
intermediary agent for the Government for private entrepreneurs entering
into commercial arrangements satisfactory to IDA with FANALAMANGA for car-
bonizing pine smallwood. BNI will negotiate terms with the entrepreneurs
satisfactory to IDA and similar to those applying to the electric boiler
component as described in 5.13 above.   The local and foreign currency
r3quirements for any FANALAMANGA pilot project undertaken without private
sector participation and approved by IDA, and for the other energy sector
components of the project, would be provided by the Government and passed
on to the various implementing agencies as a grant.
4/ The foreign exchange financing arrangements agreed between donors, the GOM and
JI4KA for the RIP and the IDA-appraised energy sector components are provided
for reference in Annex 5.6, p. 2. In addition to a small parallel financing
grant from the FED for the energy sector components, the donor financing,
including IDA funding, in place for the RIP and the IDA-appraised energy sector
_nnnnantn In TTqAlnA mill4n_n



- 33 -
Table 5.4: SUMMARY OF FINANCING PLAN
IDA                               Other
Item             F         JIRAMA       GOM      A             Total
Phase Phase   L     F    L      F   L     F     L      F  Total
I II
Power Sector
Components  9.2  10.0   4.4          -        0.2  19.8   4.6  39.0  43.7
Energy Sector
Components  4.9                     2.2                    2.2   4.9   7.1
Duties & Taxes            6.1         2.1                    8.1         8.1
PPF           0.9                                                  0.9   0.9
Total  15.0  10.0  10.5         4.3       0.2  19.8  15.0  44.8  59.8
Disbursement               1
5.19     The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years
against 100% of foreign expenditure for civil, machanical and electricial
works contracts denominated in all or part foreign currency, and 80% for
contracts  denominated  exclusively  in  local  currency.    Spare  parts,
materials and vehicles would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expendi-
ture and 80% for local expenditure of imported items procured locally.
Consulting services, technical assistance and training would be disbursed
against 100% of expenditure. Each category would be identified separately
between JIRAMA and the other agencies to allow easy replenishment of the
two  special  accounts  (para.  5.19).    All  disbursement  will  be  fully
documented except that statement of expenditure (SOB) will be used for all
proprietary parts and for local civil works.  Documentation of the SOE's
will be kept at the PMUs for verification by TDA supervision missions and
by the auditors.   The closing date for the Credit would be December 31,
1992 and any savings which may accrue due to lower contract prices, or if
all  contingency  funds  are  not  utilized,  would  be  cancelled.    The
disbursement schedule presented in Annex 5.7 conforms with the standard
profile for Bank loans and IDA Credits for power projects in the Eastern
and Southern Africa Region.  Funds for spare parts, materials, equipment
and vehicles would be disbursed in the second half of 1988, 1989, and in
1990, although some high priority items would be received in the first half
of 1988. The funds for the consultants would be required in 1987 through
1991. As indicated in para 6.08 the credit would be phased based on two
well-defined investment segments, which would become eligible for financing
as JIRAMA ach'eves specific financial performance indicators.
Spcial Accounts
5.20     In order to expedite project execution and give the implementing
agencies rapid access to funds under the credit, the Government will open
two Special Accounts at the Central Bank. Account A for the MIEM PMU will
have an initial deposit of US$300,000 and Account B for JIRAMA will have an
initial amount of US$1,000,000 corresponding to about 10% of credit
proceeds. Payments from the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for



- 34 -
eligible expenditures.  The Special Accounts will be replenished by IDA as
needed, in accordance with establishad procedures.
Environmental Aspects
5.21       The power subsector components do not involve any significant
environmental impact as, for the most part, rehabilitation of existing
plant io provided for rather than the construction of new plant.  On the
other hand, the electric boiler program which would be financed under the
project would have the positive impact of reducing the exploitation of
forests in the hinterland of Antananarivo by more than 20,000 tonnes of
wood annually over the next decade. Similarly, the energy production and
planning components place heavy emphasis on defining resources, policies,
plans and investments which would lead to more environmentally sound uee of
natural forest resources for woodfuel production. The charcoal component
envisaged would displace charcoal produced from untramelled harvesting of
the natural forest with charcoal made from thinnings and clear-fell small-
wood from the Haut Mangoro pine plantation. The pilot project that would
be funded could lead in a later phase, if fully successful, to the supply
of about one-quarter of the charcoal needs of the capital city of
Antananarivo, on a sustained basis. The rice-husk briquette pilot project
would examine the commercial prospect of producing good quality cooking
fuels from otherwise discarded cellulosic residues in substitution of
firewood and charcoal.
Project Risks
5.22     There is little physical risk associated with this project because
there would be a minimum of civil works which frequently are the cause of
delays or significant project cost increases sucb as with unforeseen sub-
surface conditions.   The main risk to the power subsector components is
really institutional in natfre, in that JIRAMA may have difficulty in
administering the project, alid Government may not promptly allow required
tariff increases.   This risk would be minimized by the employment of
competent consultants to assist in supervision of the project, and by
undertaking a regular review of JIRAMA's financial position.   The only
other risk is the financial risk of costs exceeding those estimated.
However, the nature of the project with its many components is such that if
experience indicates that costs may exceed the budget, the work and
materials to be purchased may be reduced in scope during the project, with
no detrimental effect on the completed portion. There are also risks with
the electric boiler program typical of such programs, including delays in
implementation leading to reductions in the period during which cheap
surplus hydropower energy and capacity is continuously available, and of
demands foreseen not fully materializing due to continued poor performance
of the industrial sector.   The economic rate of return on the boiler
program is so high, however, that major reductions in effective boiler life
and lower demand for steam can be tolerated.



- 35 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01       JIRAMA is responsible for all public electricity operations in
Madagascar as well as the public water supply.   In addition,  JIRAMA
operates a light bulb assembly plant and owns a subsidiary which
manufactures electrical appliances and water meters.   JIRAMA' s audited
financial statements consolidate all of these activities, but separate
accounts are kept for electricity, water supply, and appliances and meters;
for the light bulb assembly separate pro-forma statements were prepared
during project preparation. The financial analysis of JIRANA focusses on
its electricity activity plus light bulb and appliance manufacturing.
Financial Position and Past Operating Results of JIRAMA
6.02       JIRAMA's audited operating results for 1983-1986 are summarized
in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: JIRAMA - SUMMARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS (ELECTRICITY ACTIVITY)
1983      1984      1985      1986 a/
Units sold (GWh)                      312.9     315.7      330.0     331.4
Average Revenue (FMG/kWh)              44.4      48.1       59.7      61.8
FMG billion
Operating Revenue                      13.9      15.2       19.7      20.5
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                3.8       4.6        5.3       6.1
Labor                               2.2       2.5        2.5       2.9
Other                    ,          1.9       2.5        2.7       3.2
Depreciation                        3.9       3.7        4.3       4.8
Subtotal                  11.8      13.3      14.8       17.0
Operating Income                        2.1        1.9       4.9       3.5
Less: Non-Operating Expenses (Income)  0.3        0.0        0.0       2.8 b/
Interest                          5.3       5.4       5.8        5.4
Net Income (Loss)                      (3.5)     (3.5)      (0.9)     (4.8)
Return on Revalued Assets (%)           1.9        1.5       3.7       3.5
Debt Service Coverage (times)           0.8       0.7        0.5       0.7
Contribution to Investment (X)          (50)      (67)      (472)     (105)
a/ Preliminary
b/ Divestiture of light bulb, appliance and meter operations.
Rates of return on revalued assets during 1983-86 were 1.9%, 1.51, 3.7%,
and 3.5% respectively as against the 81 return stipulated under the
Andekaleka Project (CR 817-MAG) which were relaxed to 5% for 1985.  The
somewhat higher returns in 1985 and 1986 reflect the tariff increases in
February  1985 of between 101 and 152.   However, return on assets is
presently not a meaningful performance indicator because the asset base is
significantly overvalued due to overinvestment in generating plant.   A
detailed study on asset revaluation proposed under the project (para.



- 36 -
5.07(d)) will address this issue, and it would be agreed with the GOM and
JIRAMA during negotiations that the revaluation and computerization of the
asset base would be completed for IDA review by June 30, 1989. While the
company is generating cash from operations, the amount is insufficient to
cover financial charges~ and thus the annual net income is negative and
debt service cannot be covered from internal sources.  Accordingly, there
is also no internal contribution to investment, all of which is financed
from sources external to the company. Notwithstanding the weak financial
performance, JIRAMA's financial management has improved greatly in recent
years and the company has implemented the tariff adjustments that were
permitted by Government. Also, some problems are not of JIRAMA's making,
e.g. payment arrears by Government and municipalities (para. 6.05 (c)).
Tariff Structure and Policy
6.03       Operating costs are dominated by fuel which represent about 50%
of all cash operating expenditures.  Non-technical losses are negligible.
In 1985 JIRAMA paid an average of US$227/t and US$340/t equivalent for fuel
oil and diesel respectively, including an estimated tax content of 10% and
22% respectively.   In addition, fuel costs increased in local currency
terms as the FMG depreciated against the US$ by about 50% between 1983 and
1985. Fuel prices in 1986 have remained at the 1985 level as the effects
of the 17.8% devaluation of the FMG have not been passed on to JIRAMA by
SOLIMA. Electricity supply in Madagascar is further taxed in the form of
duties between 23% and 41% on imported equipment, and an added value tax as
well as consumption charges. The latter two increase the average consumer
bill by about 17% over and above the levels indicated in the summarized
income statements of Table 6.1.  As a result of high fuel, taxation and
other costs, Malagasy consuiars paid on average about 9.1 US*/kWh in 1986,
although this was still not sufficient to produce a reasonable financial
situation for JIRAMA.  Principal objectives of tariff reform are to fix
tariffs close to economic costs; to stimulate demand in regions of surplus
supply; and to greatly simplify tariff structure and administration. Short
run marginal costs in the ICS are estimated at close to zero because of the
Andekaleka related hydropower surplus. Good estimates of long run marginal
costs here and marginal costs elsewhere are presently not available,
although it is not expected that they would be significantly above present
tariff levels.  Thus the tariff policy pursued later in this chapter as
part of JIRAMA's financial rehabilitation attempts to steer a middle course
between consumers and JIRAMA's shareholder in distributing the burden
rather than one which is driven by a specific long run marginal cost
rationale.   However, economic costs of supply will be established during
the least cost expansion planning studies under the proposed project
providing a basis for the proposed tariff reform (para. 6.04). The fiscal
policy implications of required modifications in the distribution and level
of direct taxation of electricity will be examined in consultation with the
IMF.   Following revision and computerization of the asset base, it is
anticipated that from 1989 onward a return on assets criterion will be
resumed as a basis for determining overall revenue requirements.
6.04        JIRAMA's tariff structure is complex; several hundred tariffs
exist, which were retained from the independent utilities in existence
prior to JIRAMA's creation in 1975.   Large differences exist between
tariffs; tariff levels are historically based and bear virtually no



- 37 -
relationship to the cost of supply. Tariff increases in recent years were
applied uniformly across the board.   Present tariffs are cumbersome and
costly to administer.   Consumer complaints also result from the present
structure, since in the extreme, electricity tariffs on one side of the
street may be significantly higher than on the other side of the street.
Most importantly, the tariffs cannot be used by JIRAMA as a demand
management  tool.    A  first  round  of  tariff  simplification  has  been
implemented as a condition of negotiations (Table 6.3), and a tariff reform
study under the project (para. 5.07 (f)) will propose a strategy for
implementing a rational tariff structure.
6.05       JIRAMA's financial position for 1983-86 is summarized in Table
6.2.
Table 6.2: JIRAMA - SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEET (ELECTRICITY ACTIVITY)
(FMG billions)
1983     1984     1985    1986 a/
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                        0.5      0.6      0.6        1.5
Accounts Receivable
- Administrative (est.)                   6.6      5.4      8.1       11.0
(Govt. & Municipalities)
- Other                                   1.2      0.9       1.5       0.8
Inventory                                  4.6       6.6      7.8        8.2
Other                                       0.7      2.8      3.2        1.2
Subtotal                       13.6     16.3      21.2       22.7
Net Fixed Assets                           112.8    126.7    142.3      167.4
Work in Progress                             5.9      6.1       3.2       2.6
Investments in Subsidiaries                  2.1      2.3      2.8        -
Other                                        0.1      0.1      0.1        0.1
Total Assets                  134.5    151.5    169.6      192.8
=== 8..
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Overdraft                                   2.7      2.7       1.7       -
Payables                                    6.7      7.1      5.9        6.4
Other                                       2.7      3.1       5.2       6.3
Accrued Interest                            8.6     11.6      3.2        0.8
Current Portion of Long Term Debt           6.0     11.3      6.3        4.2
Subtotal                       26.7     35.8      22.3      17.7
Long Term Debt (net)                        65.9     82.3     78.4       90.6
Other                                        0.4      0.4      0.5        0.5
Equity and Retained Earnings                41.5     33.0      68.4      84.0
Total Liabilities and Equity 134.5    151.5    169.6       192.8
m
Current Ratio                                0.5      0.5       1.0       1.4
Debt:Debt and Equity (X)                    63       74        55        53
Accounts Receivable (days)                 224      161       197       230
a/ Preliminary



- 38 -
JIRAMA, which has been chronically short of liquidity, has a number of
structural financial weaknesses:
(a) Accounts receivable are very high, as Government and municipality
arrears represent 12-14 months of sales to these customers
whereas other arrears are around 1.5 months; the most recent
relief occurred in 1984 when public arrears of FMG 3.2 billion
were settled.
(b) Payables, most of which represent obligations towards SOLIMA for
fuel deliveries, are also very high; as of end-1986 JIRAMA
arrears vis-a-vis SOLIMA represented about 12.6 months of fuel
consumption equivalent.
(c) A significant portion of other current assets and liabilities
relates to various tax, duty, surcharge payables/receivables
between JIRAMA and the Government as well as JIRAMA and the
municipalities, and these items are being held back or cannot be
collected until a trilateral clearance of accounts takes place.
(d) The investments in subsidiaries which include light bulb,
electrical appliances and water meter manufacturing are highly
unprofitable; investment increases between 1983 and 1985 are
largely due to operating subsidies provided by JIRAMA.
(e) To compensate for operating cash shortfalls the company has had
to rely significantly on an overdraft facility with BNI that
carries an interest rate of 21X.
(f) Due to the lack of funds, JIRAMA has failed to comply witb its
debt service obligations on virtually all its loans onlent by the
Government. This situation was partially corrected in 1985 and
1986, when the Government made compensating equity contributions
of about FMG 22.3 billion and 9.1 billion respectively.   The
underlying  structural  deficiency  is  that  the  Andekaleka
bydropower asset for which most of the debt was incurred
(including the IDA Credit 817-MAG), is currently performing at
only 35-40% of capacity due to lack of demand in the ICS
(para. 4.02). The onlending of the IDA credit and other sources
of funds with JIRAMA carrying the foreign exchange risk and
substantial FMG devaluation have exacerbated this situation.
Financial Restructuring of JIRAMA
6.06      To restore JIRAMA's short and medium-term financial viability, a
set of reform measures  is proposed under the project.    Since  their
implementation is a prerequisite for achieving project objectives,
conditionality has been attached to them as indicated in more detail for
each measure below.   The specific objectives of the reform package are:
(i) a positive contribution to investments by 1988, and of about 30% after
1989; (ii) a return on revalued net fixed assets of not less than 82 by
1990 following the detailed study on asset revaluation proposed under the
project, (iii) a minimum current ratio of 1.1 and a minimum debt service
coverage ratio of 1.2 by 1988 and 1.4 by 1990; and (iv) the reduction of



- 39,-
accounts receivable and payable to 90 days of electricity sales and non-
payroll cash operating e*penditures respectively by 1988.   The program's
components and the conditionalities on which agreement has been reached
with JIRAMA and the Government are given in Table 6.3 and are further
described in Annex 6.1.
Table 6.3: FDtNNIAL RZS1VRl1EOF JDAMA
Massue                             Statw of Iupl ictatin
1. capital inese of FMG 7.42 bIUkn in In       apetd
1986
2.  -odolideinn of dsht term debt                emented
3. RBPc A8&z1itg  of  princpl   "8y3t    ImiateMd
(JIRM to Gmenwt) on AxIdm and
Nrnm=a lowns in lite wth capity
utilzatim of ases
4. PedutIi  of 1986   estt pro     by           p      d
PMG I bilUixn
5. Pbdwtiw of imhor of tarffs by 5(1           plieiated
6. 17 tarff incnese for 1987                 l4leumted
7. Divetiture  of  light  bilb,  electic   GQwermnt will bear finai     losmes  nouWed
appliane and watr eter peratios           after March 3, 1987. Icnmmic viability and cam-
eswdal fute  of thme eterpries will be
stu d and disonse  with IDA In the cmtsxt of
tie lukstriAl Sect  Adjustmnt Credit (1541 M19)
by Mach 31, 1988.
8. Capital incwrse of DM 4 billkn in 1987    Qmditkn of effectivais
9. Tariff inrease for 1988 of not les than    Ravish ev "mc  of decison by effecti       s
Z and a abnation of caital increase    ilqmant decison by Jamay 1, 1988
and imort duty enqion of r1ehbilta-
ton spares and 1te1al to esure that
(i) dur'ng FM JIR  ill gumae frm
intral soures not less thu  1% of its
Investmut pra  for FM8B; and (ii)
JIW     will bae at  its dispositio
adequiate fumKI to ewver tde local
eiqieoiflzre   requiremusis   Sof  ascih
Invwest pn
10. Settleunt of arreas betwam  JRD4, OCM    51 o& aflggfte anr"s setled by credit efect-
and umc ies.                              ivwess, rmindaer 'etled by Se"temir 30, 1987
11.   imtotimi of ne  pant uodaitias    CcAition of effectivemuess
for eletriity bLUs
12. evaluati  of asset                       By J    3D, 1989
Ii      u _. _ _ _ _                           .   -   ---             -   -   -



- 40 -
Future Financial Position and Operations of JIRAMA
6.07        The projected financial statements of JIRAMA for 1987 through
1992 together with notes and assumptions used in these stetements are
presented in Annexes 6.2 through 6.5.   Selected indicators are shown in
Table 6.4. The cash contribution to investment, which in the past has been
negative, will become positive by 1988 and increase to between 30% and 40%
by 1990. The projected rate of return based on an estimated adjusted asset
base would be around 10% in 1987, but generally around 5% pending the
results of the asset revaluation study.   The debt/debt plus equity ratio
will be between 57% and 69%, which is acceptable.  The projected current
ratio at not less than 1.3 and debt service coverages increasing from 0.7
in 1986 to 1.5 by 1990 are satisfactory. To achieve financial viability in
the face of devaluations and significant local inflation (Annex 6.5),
JIRAMA will require regular annual tariff increases after 1987 of between
9% and 24% plus a series of capital increases expected to total FMG 18
billion during 1987-1990, including FMG 4 billion in 1987 (Table 6.3). The
large capital increases to be made by Government for JIRAMA are an integral
part of the debt relief component of the JIRAMA financial reform package.
They do not imply cash transfers from Government to JIRAMA but rather
offsetting arrangements against JIRAMA's debt service owed to Government in
respective years.   Since the Government's own debt service obligation in
respect of this debt is minimal during this period and JIRAMA was in any
case unable to service its debt to Government,  there is no issue of
Government affordability in the face of its present situation of tight
monetary constraint. As a result of measures proposed under the project
JIRAMA will in the future be able to service its debt oblig4tions vis-a-vis
the Government and would continue to make substantial contributions to
fiscal revenues through taxes levied on electricity sales (para. 3.10).
Table 6.4: JIRAMA FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - SELECTED INDICATORS
(FMG billions)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Electricity Sales                18.7   23.4  27.6  36.5  44.1  52.2  66.3
Internal Contribution
to Investment                  (6.1)  (0.4)  0.6   2.7   5.2   6.5   9.4
Investment Program
Contribution to Investment (%)
-annual (M)                       (89)      5     3    15    33    60    34
3-year weighted average (%)       (79)      3     4    15    35    36    40
Debt Service Coverage (times)    0.7    1.6   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.5
Current Ratio                     1.4    1.7   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.3
Debt/Debt & Equity (%)             53      57    61    65    67    68    69
Projected Average Tariff Increases (X)
- Nominal                       -        17     9    24    12    12    22
- Real                         (17)     0      (8)    9    (3)   (3)    7
Rate of Return (%)                3.5   10.8   4.6   4.8   4.9   5.1   8.4
Capital Increases                 9.1    4.0   7.6   4.6   2.3   2.0   2.0
Domestic Inflation               17.0   17.0  17.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
Note:  Proposed nominal tariff increases during  1986-1992  imply a  14%
reduction in real termbs.



- 41 -
Project Phasing and Financial Covenants
6.08        JIRAMA's actual financial performance will be monitored during
project implementation and an annual review process will be undertaken
jointly by JIRAMA, GOM, and IDA to ensure that the company maintains a
sound financial position.  Agreement on the review process and associated
criteria has been reached with JIRAMA and GOM during negotiations and is
reflected in six formal measures being either financial covenants or condi-
tions of effectiveness and disbursement.   The first measure establishes
that the investments to be financed by the credit will be phased in two
well-defined phases) with the first phase, comprising US$15 million of
investments, to be undertaken upon credit effectiveness, and the second
phase of US$10 million to become eligible for financing subject to meeting
other specified financial performance criteria. The financial performance
criteria targeted for effectiveness are:  (i) that internal funds genera-
tion is sufficient to make a positive contribution to the investment
program of 1988 and that capital increases in 1988 cover the local cost of
that year's investment program, and that (ii) JIRAMA's debt service
coverage ratio for that year is not less than 1.2.  This is expected to
require a capital increase of 4 billion in 1987, and for 1988 a combination
of import duty exemption on rehabilitation spares and capital increases
yielding about 7.6 billion FMG, plus a tariff increase of not less than 9%
as of January 1st of that year. The second phase of investment will becoma
eligible for financing if revenue increases and other measures are adopted
which will lead to (i) a generation of funds from internal sources suffi-
cient to contribute not less than 15% to the 1989 investment program; and
(i) a debt service coverage ratio for that year of not less than 1.2; and
(iii) as agreed during negotiations, the outstanding issue between the
Municipality of Antananarivo and JIRAMA of disputed ownership of all water
And electricity networks and installations should have been resolved in a
definite matter. The goods to be included in the proposed second phase are
listed in Annex 6.6.   These include distribution materials,  vehicles,
diesel plant spare parts and computers and related services which can be
easily prepared as discrete packages for procurement and implementation.
Urgently required spare parts and distribution materials are provided by
cofinanciers, or through parallel donor financing, during the period of the
first phase of the proposed credit. The magnitude and required timeliness
of the financial measures to be adopted to ensure the short to medium term
financial viability of JIRAMA is deemed to warrant phasing of the project.
The proposed phasing is In synchrony with the annual in-depth IDA reviews
of JIRAMA's financial performance, which will lead to a determination of
the precise measures to be adopted to meet the performance criteria
required for undertaking the second phase of investment.
6.09      The second measure, a financial covenant, stipulates that JIRAMA
during each year after 1989 (i) maintain a rate of return of not less than
8% on net fixed revalued assets as indicated by the asset revaluation study
whose results would be available by June 30, 1989, (it) generate funds from
internal sources of not less than 30% of the average of that year's invest-
ment program; and (iii) maintain a debt service coverage of not less than
1.4.  The third measure is a covenant, stipulating that prior to September
30 of each year, GOM will review with IDA whether JIRAMA would meet the
covenant requirement set out as the second measure above for the ongoing as
well as upcoming phase of investment. If the review were to show that the
requirement would not be met, JIRAMA and CON would need to promptly take
all necessary measures, including tariff adjustment, in order to meet such



- 42 -
requirements. The foveth measure is a covenant confirming that JIRAMA vill
seek IDA approval foe changes in the agreed investment program of any given
year if such changes represent more than the lesser of either 1% of
JIRAMA's net fixed assets or US$2 million.    The fifth measure is a
financial covenant, whereby JIRAMA agrees that it will not incur any debt
without IDA's agreement unless reasonable financial projections indicate
that the debt service coverage, including the new debt, will not be less
than 1.4 times in any given year of the projection period.   The sixth
measure is a financial covenant, whereby JIRAMA agrees that it will reduce
its accounts receivable by 1988 and maintain it thereafter to no more than
90 days of sales and its account payable to no more than 90 days of non-
payroll cash operating expenditures.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Power Subsector Economic Analysis
Average Incremental Cost Analysis
7.01            As there is no current least cost expansion plan it is not
possible to determine a long run marginal cost (LRMC) of supply. Moreover,
with large surpluses of power and energy in the largest supply zones, an
average incremental cost (AIC) calculation is not a particularly useful
tool for financial management and planning. For reference, however, an AIC
calculation has been performed for the entire JIRAMA system and for the ICS
alone, and the results are presented in Annex 7.1.
Average Incremental Cost
$12X discount rate)
US cents/kWh      PMG/kWh
Overall Power System               5.7            36.0
Interconnected System              3.8            23.8
Return on Power Subsector Investment
7.02           The calculation of an economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project was based on the overall power subsector investment approved and
appraised by IDA, known as the reference investment program (RIP), for the
period from 1987 through 1992. Two ERRs were calculated: one for the power
system as a whole and one for the ICS.
7.03            The measure of benefits applied was projected revenues in
constant terms, based on projected tariffs.  This measure underestimates
the economic benefits of electricity supply as it does not include any
consumer surplus.   RIP investment costs are in constant January 1987
costs, with a conservative estimate of the shadow rate of exchange of 1.3
applied to foreign costs. Operating and maintenance, customer-related and
administration costs, and fuel and oil costs are applied in constant prices
at their estimated economic value.
7.04           The ERR for the entire JIRAMA system is 33Z and for the ICS
alone, 461. These ERRs are high because of the distortion in financial
prices for key Inputs, such as fuel and oil, and the sunk cost effect of



- 43 -
substantial hydroelectric and diesel electric generating plant which will
be used to meet much of the incremental demand for energy and capacity
foreseen during the 1987-1992 period. A detailed analysis and discussion
of assumptions applied is provided in Annex 7.1.
Economic AnalZsis of Volobi Hydropower Plant Rehabilitation
7.05          The Volobd hydropower plant sustained severe damage during a
cyclone-caused flood in March 1986.   After an initial screening, it was
agreed with JIRANA that the only options that reasonably apply in the short
term to meet demand in the Toamasina region are either complete
rehabilitation of the Volob6 plant, with additional civil works to avoid
future flood damage, or diesel generation using the existing 16 MW of heavy
duty diesel electric generating plant presently installed in the Tamatave
III power station. A discussion of the options and details of the economic
analysis are provided in Annex 7.2.  The results summarized below indicate
that rehabilitation of the Volobe hydropower is the least cost solution for
supply of power to the Toamasina region.
Present Value of Total Costs
(121 discount rate, US$ millions)
Economic Analysis Financial Analysis
Volob6 Rehabilitation                  3.45              4.29
All Diesel Generation                  6.32             10.46
Equalizing Discount Rate              22.9%             35.1%
Ele"tric Boiler Program
7.06              The electric boiler program will utilize a substantial
proportion of the surplus hydropower capacity and energy in the ICS. The
installation of five boilers with a combined capacity of 21 MW will
Increase ICS sales by 50% (96 GWh), generate US$1 million per year
additional net revenue for JIRAMA, and reduce foreign exchange requirements
for imported oil by about US$750,000/year at low 1986 prices.  Electric
boiler installations would also be profitable ventures for their private
sector owners and operators, replacing imported fuel oil or diesel fuel,
fuelwood, and providing savings through avoided costs for new oil-fired
boilers and ancillary equipment.  In addition, boiler electrification will
significantly reduce regional deforestation by displacing fuelwood demand
of about 20,000 tpy. The economic analyses made to determine the viability
of an electric boiler program are discussed, and the results are presented
in detail in Annex 7.3.   The results of these analyses are summarized
below.
Overall Electric Boiler Program - Rate of Return
Economic     Financial (Return to Enterprises)
Case A: No Industrial Recovery  49%             61%
Case B: Forecast Recovery        63%           107%
These analyses, plus switching value analyses performed on key cost
variables for each sub-project, Indicate clearly the economic viability of
this program.



- 44 -
Economic Analysis of Antananarivo-Antsirabe Transmission Line
7.07             Antsirabe is connected with the ICS at Antananarivo by a
63 kV line now 13 years old, and capable of carrying about 12 MW firm
power.   Peak demand in Antsirabe is about to exceed this amount, though
demand is growing slowly.   In addition to making minor repairs to the
present transmission line, upgrading its capacity slightly, and extending
its life a further 20 years, future demand can be met either by the
addition of a 138 kV line or by incremental diesel generation.   The
economic analysis made to determine which of these is presently the least
cost solution for incremental power and energy supply is discussed in
detail in Annex 7.4. The results are as follows:
Present Value of Costs
(12% discount rate, US$ millions)
Economic Analysis Financial Analysis
Additional 138 kV line                12.5                  6.51
Supplemental diesel power              9.8                  6.46
The results indicate that at present a 138 kV line is not economically
justified to secure power supply to Antsirabe and that diesel generation
during peak hours plus expansion of the diesel power station at Antsirabe
is the least cost solution.
Economic Viability of New Household Power Supply Connections
7.08      As part of a program to utilize substantial hydropower surplus in
the ICS, JIRAMA proposes to mount an aggressive program to connect
household consumets. Due to,past shortages of materials and equipment, the
demand for household electricity connections has exceeded the annual level
of supply of about 2,500 by more than 5,000. An ERR has been made for new
connections using JIRAMA's experience of the average and present short run
marginal capital cost of distribution connections-US$650 and US$400,
respectively-including all cost from the distribution transformer to
internal wiring, and allowing for the recovery of about 13,000 meters from
now redundant double metered installations. In these analyses the average
consumption rate of new connections is taken as 40 kWh/month, compared to
the average for Antananarivo of 89 kWh/month, and the SRMC of surplus
hydropower is taken as zero. The average household tariff in Antananarivo
will be 18 US/kWh before taxes and after IDA proposed tariff increases.
The *ERRs range from 15-30% given these assumptions, and with consumer
contributions to connection charges, the FR*s are higher still, indicating
that a program to meet the backlog of registered consumer demand for
electricity supply is financially and economically robust.
Economic Viability of Rehabilitation Programs
7.09       Due to long term shortages of foreign exchange for spare parts
and routine expansion for' generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, diesel plant failure and system outages have reached critical
proportions. Regular power supply to several major diesel power-supplied
zones can no longer be guaranteed. Important losses of export production
due to sustained outages have been reported  in  1986.    The  economic



- 45 -
justification of the generation rehabilitation program has been provided in
the report of the Joint UNDP/World Bank ESMAP Power Sector Efficiency Audit
for Madagascar.  5/   ERR estimates of between 20% and 602 have been
established for al major discrete rehabilitation programs where power
stations are to be renewed and the quality of service upgraded.   These
analyses typically demonstrate economic viability based on fuel savings
through improvements in specific fuel consumption, reduction in maintenance
costs following completion of maintenance backlog and required repairs, and
additional revenue through greater plant availability and reduced outages.
The ESMAP report, which has been submitted to regional files and will be
discussed with the GOM and JIRAMA before negotiations, contains these
analyses. The program is very complex, however, including a large number
of minor as well as major works, and needs close scrutiny and constant
economic as well as engineering evaluation to verify assumptions on cost
and bene,lts  as  implementation  proceeds.    Moreover,  due  to resource
constraints, the rehabilitation program that would be supported under the
proposed project is limited and is based on the need to sustain power
supply at existing levels and to maintain essential safety standards by the
supplv  of  urgently  needed  spare  parts.    The  proposed  power  system
reh4bilitation components would be undertaken in two phases, with the first
phase including a detailed assessment by JIRAMA and consultants of the
least cost approach to stabilizing supply in power systems  currently
experiencing outages.   This phase would include the implementation of a
system of maintenance scheduling based on economic ranking criteria, and
would  also  prepare  an  economically  prioritized  set  of  works  for
implementation in the second phase of the rehabilitation program.
B. Household and Industrial Energy Production Pilot Pro ects
Charcoal
7.10      The pine charcoal project arises directly from the GOM's proposal
to thin commercially viable stands within the 80,000 ha Government-owned
Haut Mangoro pine plantation about 120 km from Antananarivo. In the first
five years of a thinning program, which is planned to commence in 1987, a
minimum of 250,000 m3/year of smallwood would be available, representing
about 25,000 tonnes of charcoal, or over 25% of the Antananarivo market
demand.  Quantities may reach 500,000 m3 per year in the medium term.  If
the proposed thinning program proves not to be economically viable,
carbonization of blocks of poorer stands in the plantation could be an
envisaged alternative, and would represent an administratively simpler
arrangement for a charcoal project.   The proposed project is designed to
establish the commercial viability of utilizing thinnings and other
smallwood waste from this source to substitute for imported coal in cement
production and for househola cooking. Utilization of this resource would
greatly reduce regional deforestation if household acceptance of the
product at present market prices were to be demonstrated.   The project
represents an opportunity to involve the private sector in the commercial
exploitation of Government-owned timber resources.   During negotiations
agreement was reached with the GON on an action plan to solicit proposals
from the private sector for full-scale comercial exploitation of this
5/  Madagascar:   Power System Efficiency Study, World Bank, Green Cover,
December 1986.



- 46 -
resource. If however, after the implementation of this action plan, and by
the end of 1987, full-scale private sector involvement is not achieved, for
reasons acceptable to the Association, a commercial scale pilot project
involving both FANALAMANGA and private sector smallholders is envisaged.
The pilot project would achieve a minimum production of 5,000 tpy by the
end of four years.  Feasibility study economic analyses indicate that the
project would achieve ERRs exceeding 50% under a wide range of sensitivity
analyses for major parameters, including varying scale of production, and
would yield FRRs of 20-30% if market acceptance is achieved in accordance
with the results of thorough consumer trials. Full details of the economic
analysis are provided in the feasibility study which has been discussed
with the GOM.
Rice Husk Briquettes
7.11       A small pilot project of 1,500 tpy is proposed to examine the
economic viability of producing firewood, charcoal and fuelwood substitutes
from rice husks presently discarded in the region of Antananarivo.
Comparative economic analyses provided in Annex 7.5 show that the economic
cost of production is about 85% that of firewood and charcoal although the
financial cost is 22-36% higher depending on the range of size and
operating hours of the plant concerned.   With prices of firewood and
charcoal escalating at greater than 5% per year in real terms, a small
commercial scale pilot project is justified in order to fully evaluate the
estimated high economic value of this option economically justified.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
8.01     During negotiations agreements were reached by IDA, the Government
and JIRAMA that:
SAR           Legal
Agreement                        para.        Document
(a)  GOM will onlend to JIRA*A US$17.9 million  5.18            CA 3.01 (C)
equivalent under terms and conditions which have
been agreed by the Association, including a
final maturity of 25 years, five years of grace,
an interest rate of 10% above the IBRD rate of
lending at the date of the Board presentation
and with the foreign exchange risk to be borne
by JIRAMA.
(b)  GOM shall send to IDA not later than six  5.19,            CA 4.01
months  after  the  end  of  each  year  audited  5.20,         (b)  i,  ii,
accounts of the execution of the project and of  5.12           (c) ii, iv
the special accounts.
(c)   JIRAMA will continue to employ qualified  3.09            PA  4.01  (b)
auditors and will send audited accounts to IDA                  i, it
within six months after the end of the fiscal
year.



- 47 -
(d)   JIRAMA will not incur any debt without  6.09               PA 4.06
IDA's agreement unless reasonable financial
projections indicate that the debt service
coverage including the new debt to be incurred
will not be less than 1.4 in any given year of
the projection period.
(e)   JIRAMA will reduce by 1988 and maintain  6.09              PA 4.06
thereafter its accounts receivable and payable
to 90 days of electricity sales and non-payroll
cash operating expenses respectively.
(f)   JIRAMA will undertake and present to IDA  Table 6.3   PA 4.04
for review a complete revaluation and computeri-
zation of its asset base by June 30, 1989.
(g)    The  remaining  50X  of  arrears  between  Table 6.3   CA 6.01 (f)
JIRAMA, Government, and municipalities will be
settled by September 30, 1987.
(h)   Power subsector expansion should be in  6.09               PA 4.05
accordance   with   the   Reference   Investment
Program (RIP); the RIP should be reviewed
annually by September 30, or as needed, and
revised if required; and that JIRAMA shall seek
IDA's approval for any changes in the RIP
greater than US$2 million equivalent, or 12 of
the assets, whichever is the smaller.
(i)   By September  30th,  1988,  JIRAMA shall  3.10             PA 2.06 (a),
complete, and furnish for review and comment by                  (b)
the Association, a tariff study, and by January
1, 1989, shall commence the implementation of a
tariff structure reform wbich is judged to be
satisfactory   by   the   Borrower   and   the
Association.
(j)  From 1990 onwards, JIRAMA sbould (i) earn a  6.09           PA 4.03 (a),
return on net fixed revalued assets of not less                  CA 3.01 (f)
than 8x; (ii) generate funds from internal
sources of not less than 30% of the average of
that year's investment program, and (iii)
maintain a debt service coverage of not less
than 1.4. Prior to September 30 of each year,
JIRAMA and Government will review with IDA
whether JIRAMA will meet the requirements for
that year and the next year and take appropriate
measures, including adjustment of tariffs.
(k) GOM will furnish IDA for comment a draft  3.03               CA 3.04 (a),
contract plan to be entered into between the                     (b)
borrower and JIRUAM, establishing performance
criteria for JIRAMA for the next five years, in
the context of the Government's overall objec-
tives regarding electricity and specifying the



- 48 -
mutual obligations to achieve JIRAMA's financial
autonomy and a high standard of JIRAMA's
services at least cost.
Conditions of Effectiveness
9
8.02      The following conditions of effective-
ness were agreed:
(a)  The Subsidiary loan agreement on behalf of  5.18           CA 6.01 (a)
the Government and JIRAMA has been executed.
(b)   The MIEM and JIRAMA Project Management  5.11,             Ca 6.01 (a),
Units shall has been established and staffed and  5.12           (c)
respective PMU managers have been appointed.
(c)    50%  of  the  aggregate  arrears  between  Table 6.3   CA 6.01 (f)
JIRAMA, GOM and municipalities will have been
settled.
(d)  JIRAMA's capital will have been increased  Table 6.3   CA 6.01 (f)
by FMG 4 billion.
(e)   Government has taken and communicated to  Table 6.3   CA            3.05
JIRAMA a decision to make, effective January 1,                 Supplemental
1988, a tariff increase of not less than 9% and                 Letter
a combination of capital increase and import
duty exemption on rehabilitation spares and
materials to ensure that during 1988 JIRAMA will
(i) generate from internal sources not less than
1% of its investment program for FY88; and (ii)
have at its disposal adequate funds to cover the
local expenditure requirements of this invest-
ment program.
(f)  Contracts between JIRAMA and boiler users  5.13,           CA 6.01 (b)
have been signed.                                   5.18        PA 2.01 (b)
(g)    New payment modalities  for electricity  Table 6.3   CA 6.01 (f)
bills for Government and Municipalities will
have been implemented.
Conditions of Disbursement
8.03      The following cotditions of disburse-
ment were agreed:
(a)  In order to have Phase II of the investment  6.08,         PA 4.02 (b)
program become eligible for financing, JIRAMA  6.08             CA 3.01 (f)
and the Government will have taken the necessary                CA   Schedule
tariff, capital increase and other measures so                  1, 3(b) i, ti
that for 1989, based on reasonable financial
projections acceptable to IDA, internal sources
contribute not less than 15% to its 1989 invest-



- 49 -
ment program; and (ii) maintain a debt service
coverage of not less than 1.2. In addition, the
issue of ownership of all water and electricity
networks and installations operated :by JIRAMAL
shall  have  been  resolved  in  a  definitive
manner.
(b) Intermediary agreements satisfactory to IDA  5.13,          CA   Schedule
are  required  to  have  been  executed  by  the  5.18          1, 3(c)
Government and BNI in order that the electric                   Supplemental
boiler    component    becomes   eligible    for                Letter
financing.
(c)  Government  is  to  agree  to  commercial  7.10            CA   Schedule
arrangements, for the exploitation for charcoal                 1, 3(d)
production of FANALAMANGA's pine smallwood
satisfactory to IDA, including where applicable
the execution of intermediary agreements between
the Government and BNI, in order for charcoal
production activities in the FANALAMANGA pine
plantation to become eligible for financing.
Recommendation
8.04        With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 19.8 million, equivalent to US$25 million, to be lent to
Madagascar for a term of 50 years including a period of 10 years grace.



EN119 I PDW
NATIAO   lT BAUM, 1983                    4
-R     El .no Futrola  fotuets
Juelood  qpmase So t.g %dro         crde                                           -       t  Gcs Fue          Lins
VI    Wtiad      cm,oa  OLI   Oaromal Elnetricty LPG Aias Caomi. Kerosee Fuel 011 Oil  Total Totals
Grin
1675.8   2.9    0.1   62.0                                                                                     1740.8
l8Iqiots                                               7.5 210.2                       0.6  1*5    6.2    5.0  18.4  12.5          44.2  261.9
8toea  @0m                                                                             0.7          9.1    2.9         68.0        80.7   80.7
TotalA bailable            1675.8   2*9    0.1   62.0   7.5 210.2                        1.3  1.5   15.3    7.9  18.4  805           124.9 2083.4
eis    bafia.                                              (201.1)                     1.3         44.6   22.7         55.5  77.0 201.1    0.0
Cb rcasi Ytoductloo j/   (121.3)                                    121.3                                                                   0.0
u*tit looar Ginration
O--ubLie                                       (62.0)                          90.1                                   (15.7) (12.4)         0.0
(2.9)                                        11.9                                    (9.0)                0.0
l4noso ose"           (352.7)                            (9.1)             (11.9)                                                     (373.7)
losse @1                                                                     (6.2)                                                       (8.2)       o
uag Sector Ub                                                                  (3.7)                                                       (3.7)
Ret SITply aniable         1201.8          0.1           7.5          121.3      78.2    2.6  1.5   59.9   30.6  18.4 111.3  64.6 288.9 1697.8
secssdary Eports                                                                                               (18.4)              (18.4) (18.4)
bdicr  Sales                                                                                                                (29.2) (29.2) (29.2)
met oetse Osus.tics        120K.8          0.1           7.5          121.3      78.2    2.6  1.S   S9.9   30.6         111.3  35.4 241.3 1650.2
*  Otber                                0.1          7.5                     56.5    0.6                             47.9  17.2  65.7  129.8
lTurwaut                                                                                     1.5   58.3                63.4  18.2 141.4  141.4
Ebssadmds                1201.8                                     121.3      21.7    1.7                28.6                      30.3 137S.1
uaalog Btsors                                                                        0.3          1.6    2.0                       3.9    3.9
8
e( 1bluood to cooverted at 3,200 hcal at 25S *cliture cooteat.
y  10 dota.
w svertdo than Oarmi r aoint bas* (1 Gb - 250 to.).
rcsal to comened at 7,082 eal/kg.
3/ frN.eein   wd               law" m  pt.bsbly id   tha these reported.



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR INFORMATON FLOW AND DEC0SN-MAING PROCESS
IPRESDENT
PUIMATURE
kduoft Ener Dwmd Dcat aid E        Resoumce date pfes CotS. etc.
DG PLAN                         7E.WAIW&WM                                                OMAN6
,l  on
I  |I crop            Daa
I I|   ddk         m ourczandwoodhe
DIECTIONL   .    | *EI  O F-
t _   . .1     DIRECION OF  ____ __U_al            RIAL 0
'I~~~~Dt Do  h*xndsk   (FUURE ENERGY
iRAVMA   I                _______               PLANNG)
L  -   - -                                        _ -  -                                                r
09
Dft a nd kdfnaflo
0.
--- -To be uieniheed
Nob: 3 mdn Drofln concned In WARA. Inarotrt RUs (DIR
NWdU~M    oak~lcimA)
Wodd SoWk*-423



- 52 -
ANE 1.2
Page 2 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ENRY  I PRWOECr
ADIMISTRATION OF HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PLAING PROGM
ForeigM Staff:             L1o    Staff:
-  Resident program        - Head of Unit (F)
Advisor (F)             -  Secretarial/Clerical
-  Data Managnt               Assistants (2-F)
Consultamt (P)          - Data Management Officer (F)
- Drivers (3-F)
urm"                  BudRenes sd a
Ooe- am-t             mrzat lSurey            OWtAM
Local Staff              Local Staff          Local Staff           Local Staff
-  Project Field         -  Professional      -  Senior Forester    - Survey Field
Director (F)             Assistants           (P)                   Director (F)
-  Professional             (2-P)             -  Senior Agronomist - Stove tecleiOian
Assistant (F)         -  Forester (P)         Consultant (P)        (F)
.- Computer               -  Agroeconomist     - Energy Planner      - Computer
Programmers (3-P)        (P)                  (P) (from MmIE        programmars (3-P)
-  Statisticians         -  Computer             staff)              - Statisticians
(2-P)                    programmr (P)    - Professional            (2-P)
-  Enumerators (30-P)   -  Enumerator (P)        assistant (P)       - Enumerators (30-P)
-  Computer           - Professional
progranmPr (P)       Assistant (F)
Foreign Staff            Foreign Staff        Forei8 Staff          Foreign Staff
-  Social Survey         -  Household         -  Energ/Forest        - Stove Design
Specialist (P)           Energy               Economist            Consultant (P)
Specialist           Consultant (P)    - Marketing
Consultant (P)    - Agro-Industrial       Consultant (P)
-  Forester (P)         Wastes             - Production
-  Social survey        Consultant (P)       Engineer
Kay:                        specialist (P)    -  Social survey         Consultant (P)
(F) = Full time                                  Specialist (P)     - Social Survey
(P) - Part time                                                        Specialist (P)
(Number) - number of
staff
required



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PIROJECT
INSTALLED GENERATION CAPACITY
No. of        Unit      Commissioning    Installed        Firm       Average       Firm
Plant                    Type     Units       Capacity        Date          Capacity       Capacity   Generation   Generation
kW             kW        Gwh p.a.    CGo p.a.
I.  Hydropower plants
A.  Interconnected System
Antolnmtta             Francis   6          6xl,360        4930-58          8,160        8,160         50           28
I         Ix640                            640          640
Nandraka               Pelton     4         4x6,000        I - 04/56       24,000       24,000         el           45
2 - 04/56
3- 11/66
4 - os0li
Manandona              Francis    2         2x480          1- 1932            960          960         12          9.5
2 - 1932
I         Ix640         3- 06/60           640          640
---------------
Andeklaeke             Francis    2         2x29,000       I - 06/82       58,000       58,000        So0          500
I- 06/82
B. Isolated Centers
Ankazobe               Francis    I         Ix50           1959                50            -       0.05            -
Awbohimidana           Francis    I         56            -                    56            -       0.07            -
C. External Zones
Toamasina              Francis    4         3xl,520        1931             6,760        4.560        7.5          4.0
1x2,200       1971
Vatomandry             Francis    3         Ix90           1953               170           40        0.3          0.3
2x40          1953
Namorona               Francis    2         2x2,600        1980             5,600        2,800        8.5          2.5
Fianarantsoa           Francis    3         2xl40          1932               450          170        1.5           1.5
Manandray                                   Ixl70          1963



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 2
,,,,!s         _"^  _,s, 0  4%  -p.s _,4w  v
-,                                     a - a  U 'X 5 X   RSR  2a
3           888  88  8   88  8888        l  
8        -e4U' -N  U'|    -C4Uq *c
; i.|3i    0Ei1.
(7       A ~~~~~~~~~~~4    *    '0~~~~~~~~4



- 55 -
ANNEK 3.1
Page 1 of 3
NADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PRJECT
2rganixation and Functions of the PMU
The main functions of the PMU would Include the following:
(i) to be the counterpart for IDA, cofinancing agencies, consultants
and contractors;
(iL)  to coordinate and supervise draw down of the IDA funds and other
funds allocated for the execution of the energy components, and
to keep the accounts for the handling of such funds;
(Wi)  to supervise the execution by the PIUs of the energy components
and to manage the monitoring and execution of pilot-project
contract;
(iv) to submit the requests for disbursements to IDA and the various
cofinancing *gencles;
(v) to be a party, jointly with the representative of each Ministry
and Agency Involved, to contracts to be entered into with respect
to the execution of the respective energy components;
(vi)  to keep appropriate files for all energy components;
(vii) to coordinate the preparation by the PI1 of their respective
progress reports for the energy components for IDA and the
various cofinancing agencies;
(viii) to carry out the same activities as in (vii) but with respect to
the preparation of a project Completion report once disbursements
for the enorgy components have been completed; and
(ix) to handle official correspondence in respect of the energy
components   with   IDA,  cofianciang   agencies,   consultants,
contractors and government agencies.



INEGY I PRWOC?
PROECr MWAGEKW
(Non-Power Components)
IJSMRY I, lRY ARD MINE
SECRETARY-60NEtAL
-     ~DIREC1TO-GEOW.AL
IR 
DIRECO  OF MEM=G (AND WATER)
PRDJECr MANAGEMENT UNIT
DIPECrON OF          DIRElOIN OF          IMPAA           .DFU
LSTRY, mIm          EN;Y AND WATER                         MPAI;F.
pmi                 PnJ                PI             Y                                   n 
P C    Industrial         - Eerg Planning        Briquetting  -Yorestry          Carbonization        Power
R 0   Energy                Support              Lac Aloatra    Besoirce         of Pinewood          Components
0 M   onservation           Household EgY        Study         -Assessmect       (Haut !kngoro)
J P   Program               Planning Prog.       Agricultural   (HEPP)
0                         (through its HEPU    Residues      -Woodfu els
C N                          to be established)   Resource       Market                         Final approval    
T E                       - Energy Studies       Assessent       Prices              and submission to IDA of            0 A
N                                              (HEPP)         Surveys              disburse"ent requests only.
T PIU1 - Project Imlmnaion Unit                               (MEP)              *JIRAMA wil bave its own PMU.
S PHU - Project Management Unit
HEPP - Housebold Energy Planning Program
HKFU - Hbusehold Energy Planning Unit (see Annex 1.2, p. 2)



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
JIRAMA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
DE TECTOR GE A             INTANRNAL AUDIT
ASST* 'DIR. GKN*                 ST   I.GN   AE
ADKIN. FIN.
INVISTNENTS
EQUIPMENT__
ELECTRICITY 1                                  ANTSERANANA
GENERATION__
WATEt EQUTPMENT"                            _AUTBIRABE
IAD WORWS
LTAIM~~~~~~~~
WATER PRODUCTION                               FIAYARANTSOA
HUMa  RESOURCES
ADM(INISTRATIONTOMSN
SFINTCE
q  ~~STlS & PLANNING                             MEI|-SCA
CENTER



MADAGASCAR
INERGY I PROJECT
JIRANA - Selected Performance Indicators
Actual                            Proposed Tar;ets
Description                                  1984       MY       1986      1987      1988     1989       1990      1991
Technical a/
Installed Dependable Capacity (KW)          109.1    109.1    109.1    109.1    109.1    113.1          113.1    109.1
Peak Deaand (KW) b/                          50.8      51.4      53.4      58.5     75.7      78.9       83.7      86.8
Capacity Surplus ci (NW)                     28.8      28.2      26.2      21.1      18.8     19.5       14.5       7.4
Available Generatioan (GWh)    -            582.5    582.5    582.5    582.5    582.5    582.5          582.5    582.5
Surplus (GVh) c/                            367.1    355.1    344.4    331.7.    317.8    309.4         287.1    265.1
System Losses (GVb) b/                       15.5      23.7      24.7      25.8      33.0     27.6       29.7      31.4
System Losses (Z of generation) bJ            7.2      10.4      10.4      10.3       9.6      7.6        7.6       7.5
Sales (GWh) a/b/                            199.9    203.5    213.4    224.9    311.1    334.3          359.9    385.4
Total JIRAMA Ssles d/                       318.2 e/ 326.8    342.3    354.9    449.1    485.3          518.2    549.7
Institutional
No.of Consumers                            117000   120000   123000   127000   133000   140500    147000   154000
Total Population f/                          9.85    10.12    10.39    10.67    10.96    11.25          11.56    11.87
Per Capita Consumption (kWh)                 32.3      32.3      33.0      33.3      41.0     43.1       44.8      46.3
Sales/Consumer per year (kWh)                2720      2724      2783      2795      3376     3454       3525      3570
No. of Consumer per employee                    53       55        56        S8        60        63        65        67
No. of Employees (power-related)             2200      2200      2200      2200      2222     2244       2267      2289
Financial
Vorking Ratio                                   89       80        91        79        80        83         79       79
Internal Contribution to Investment (Z)    (67)    (472)          (89)      (33)        0        14        27        35
Debt Service Coverage                          0.7      0.5       0.6       1.0       1.2       1.2        1.4       1.4
Accounts Receivable (days)                     168      208       125        90        90        90        90        90
Rate of Return (Z)                             1.5      3.7       2.5       9.1       7.9       6.2       7.4       6.8
a/ JIRJAA :^  ouly, unless otherwise stated
i includes boiler loads
c/ excluding boiler loads
d/ includes all JIRAXA zones
1984 data suspect
f/ based on population growth of 2.7Z pa.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Methodology'and Assumptions for Load Forecasts
Load forecasting was performed on a microsectoral basis building
up demand on the basis of known or anticipated demands from present
consumption patterns for the major power supply zones. Demand forecasting
models were built on Lotus 123 and checked through with JIRAMA staff in the
field to verify present and foreseen major demands and trends.   This
approach is outlined below for the ICS.
Assumptions: ICS Demand Forecast
(i) Industry:   The disaggregated demand models utilized separate
major  new  industrial  demands  for  each  new  demand  center,
codmissioning them in accordance with acceptable timetables for
implementation of  industrial  plant.    Industries not thought
viable by IDA were excluded. In summary:
- energy and capacity demand of existing major industry was
reviewed and registered in the model on a case by case basis;
and
- small-scale industrial demand is projected to grow at about
3% p.a. in line with recent trends.
(ii) Commercial (including hotels, hospitals, retail and wholesale
trade, restaurants)
- recent demand trends were reviewed as well as the backlog of
demand from commercial undertakings for electricity supply,
leading to an estimate of 3.5% p.a for future demand growth.
(iii) Domestic:   Three factors were considered in estimating future
demand for electricity:
- demand backlog; which exceeds 10,000 consumers. Thus assump-
tion was made to resume previously achieved connection rate of
6,500 per year at an average consumption of 500 k W/yr/consumer
stimulated by JIRAMA financing of connection fees;
- electric rice-cooking; intiated by the project on a pilot basis
and extending by 1995 to 10,000 consumers;
- price elasticity of demand;
- is not expected to be significant as tariffs will decline in
real terms, and only about half the domestic consumers would
experience tariff increases in 1987/1988 due to existing
inequalities in domestic tariffs; and



- 60-                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 2
- as result of these considerations, background demand was
projected at 3.3% through 1988, and at 5.5% thereafter, with
additional cooking demand growing with stove units in use,
leading to an average projected demand growth of 5.9% p.a. over
the period.
(iv) Electric Boilers: Consumption data were included in the model in
accordance with the proposed installation schedule and low growth
demand build-up assumptions for each boiler installation.
(v) Government,  Public  Lighting  and  water  Pmpi:    Demand  by
Government, including public lighting, is anticipated to slow
down  due  to  payment  enforcement  and  overall  budgetary
restrictions.   Water pumping demand is extrapolated at present
levels.   Thus  annual  demand  projections  adopted  are  public
lighting, 0.5X.; administration, 1.51 declining to 1.0% in 1989;
water pumping, 3.01.



END= I PJk(rT
JIRhKA ICS SALES AND G0M3A  l, ACTUAL AiD PIIEC!ED, P!-95
(GWhb)
Growth*
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1965-95
Bae Cae - Jrama ICS                                                                                                                    K
Dtoestic Use             46.3  50.7  52.8  54*8  61.4  61.1  63.2  65.4  67.7  71.4  75*4  79.5  83.9  88.5  93.4  98.5   4.9
Electtic CabidOLg         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0,0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.8   3.2  12*8  13.4  14.1  14.8  15.6  16*3
ubtotyal             -     *46.3  50.7  52.8  54.8  61.4  61.1  63.2  65.6  68.5  74.6  88.2  92.9  98.0  103.3 108.9  114.8   6.5
CWMEOMMA t             11.2  13.1  11.6  13.6  14.2  15.4  15.6  15.8  16.0  16.2  16.3  16*5  16.6  16*8  17.0  17.1   1.1
Internal Conensu tioo    14.5- 15.3  15.5  16.7  16.5  16.4  16.9  17.0  17.6  18.1  18.6  19.2  19.8  20.4  21.0  21.6
Public  IghtinLg          5.2   4.9   3.3   3.1   2.9   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3*4   3.4   0.5
Hative, ItNr, Ion voltage  8.9   9.2   8. 3   8.7   8.9   9.2   9.5   9.9  10.2  10.6  11.0  11.3  11.7  12.1  12.6  13.0   M.
Subtotal                 39.8  42.5  38.8  42,1  42.5  44.2  45.3  46.0  47.0  48.1  49.2        3  51.4  52.6  5.9  55.6     1   2.2
IndustriaJl
smlI Indshtry            93.9  88.9  88.6  95.4  96.0  98.3 103.2 108.4 113.8 119.5 125.4  131.7  138.3 145.2 152.5  160.1   5.0
Now targe Industry        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.7   5*0   8.3   8.3   8.3  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6
Boilers                   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  73.8  83.8  88.8  93.8  97.0  97.0  97.0  97.0
Subtt. New Ind/Boilers  0*0   0.0   0*0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.7   5.0  82.1  92.1  97.1 110.4 113.6 113*6 113*6 113*6
Subtotail               '93.9  88.9  88.6  95.4  96.0  98.3  104.9  113.3 l195.9 211.6 222.6 242.1 251.8 258.8 266.0 273.6  10.8
hItercoumecter-bternal Zone  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Tot. ICS v/oat Boilers
Sales                   180.0 182.0 180.2 192.3 199.' 203*b' 213.4 224.9 237.6 250.5 271.1 291.5 304*3 317.8 3J4i  346.6   5.5
louses: Substations       1.7   1*7   1*7   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.6   4.7   4.8   4.9   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3  -5.4   5.5   2*0
TS  Ines          8.9   9.2  11.3  10.6  11*0  19.2  20.1  21.1  22.;  17.7  19*3  20*7  21.7  22*6  23*7  24.7   2.6
Subtotal             10.6  11*0  13.0  15.2  15.5  23.8  24.7  25.9  27.1  22.6  24.4  25*8  26.9  28.0  29.1  30.3   2*4
Tot. taqiUnre  Gmratiou  190.6 193.0 193.2 207.5 215.4 227.4 238.1  250.8 264.7 273.1 295.4  317.4 331.2 345.7 360.9 376.9   5.2
peak Ebnmd               43.9  45.3  45.3  47.9  50.8  51.4  53.4  58.5  60.8  64.1  69.1  72.2  75.6  79.1  82.8  86*6   5.4
Total ICS idth Bolers
Sales                   180*0 182.0 180.2 192.3 199.9 203.6 213.4 224*9 311*4 334.3 359.9 385.4 401.3 414.7 428.8 443.6   8.1
losses: Substations       1.7   1.7   1.7   4.5   4.5   4*5   4.6   4.7   4.8   4.9   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5   2.0
S tlnes           8.9   9.2  11.3  10.6  11*0  19.2  20.1  21.1  28.2  22.7  24.7  26.3  27.5  28.4  29.5  30.6   4.7
Subtotal             10.6  11.0  13.0  15.2  15.5  23.8  24.7  25.9  33.0  27.6  29.7  31.5  32.7  33.8  34.9  36.1   4.3                  2
bto.   qirptded  rswtion  190.6 193.0  193.2 207.5 215.4 227.4 238.1 250.8 344.4 361.9 389.6 416.8 434.0 448.5 463.7 479.7   7.8
Peak DDmed               43.9  45.3  45.3  47*9  50.8  51*4  53.4  58.5  75.7  78.9  83.7  86.8  90.1  93.6  97.3 101.2   7.0                  *>
loses* a & Proportio                                         10.53  10.4K  10.3Z  9.6K  7.6K  7.62  7.5K  7.5K  7.5K  7.5K  7.5K                  N
Of GeMeratine



END9BT I PFf1iWY
JlRAWA ICS, PEM  DiWD, ACTUAL AND FROECIEDs, 118O-95 (MW)
Grwh,
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  l987  1988  L189  1990  "991  1992  1993  1994  1995 1985-95
Jfrm slO IC
Residential
General stic Use       18.7  20.4  21.3  22.1  24.7  24.6  25.5  26.4  27.3  28.8  30.4  32.0  33.8  35.7  37.6  39.7    4.9
Electric COdking        0.0   0.0-  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   .0   0.2   0.7   2.9   3.1   3.2   3.4   3.6   3.7
Subtotal                18.7  20.4  21.3  22.1  24.7  24.6  25.5  26.4  27.5  29.5  33.3  35.1  37.0  39.0  41.2  43.4    5.8
Govermzsent             2.1   2.5   2.2   2.6   2.7   2.9   3.0   3.0   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.3    1.1
Internal Comost4tie     2.9   3.1   3.1   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.4   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8   3.9   4.1   4.2   4.3    2.8
PubliIc Lighting         1.3   1.3   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9    0.5
ottive Power, low voltage  2.3   2.3   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3    3.5
Subtotal                8.6   9.2   8.3   9.0   9.0   9.4   9.6   9.8  10.0  10.2  10.5  10.7  11.0  11.2  11.   11.8   2.3
Industrial
SiaU Industry           16.6  15.8  15.7  16.9  17.0  17.4  18.3  19.2  20.2  21.2  22.2  23.3  24.5  25.7  27.0  28.4    5.0
M Large Industry        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1
Boilers                 0.0   0*0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0*0   0.0  13.4  13.4  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1
S-T: laqge TInustry    16.6  15.8  15.7  16.9  17.0  17.4  18.3  22.3  23.3  24.3  25.4  26.4  27.6  28.8  30.1  31.4   6.1
S-V: Boilers/UNs Ind's   16.6  15.8  15.7  16.9  17.0  17.4  18.3  22.3  36.7  37.7  38.5  39.5  40.7  41.9  43.2  44.5    9.8
Subtotarl               16.6  15.8  15.7  16.9  17.0  17.4  18.3  22.3  36.7  37.7  38.5  39.5  40.7  41.9  43.2  44.5    9.8
Intercmmect-zter_nl zne    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total ICS W/out Biles     43.9  45.3  45.3  47.9  50.8  51.4  53.4  58.5  60.8  64.1  69.1  72.2  75.6  79.1  82.8  86.6    5.4
Total ICS ith bilers      43.9  45.3  45.3  47.9  50.8  51.4  53.4  58.5  74.2  77.4  82.2  15.3  88.7  92.2  95.9  99.7    6.8



- 63 -
ANNEY 4.4
ENERGY I PROJECT
JIRANA ICS ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCES, FY86-5
(NW)
1986   1987   1938   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Firm Energy Supply
Plant
Andoekleka Stage I      500.0  50.   500.0  500.0  500.0  300.0  500.0 50 500500.0  S00.0
Andekaleka Stage It
Andekaloka Stage III (Ankohotre)
Antelomita               28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0
eanendona                 9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5
Mandrake                 45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   4S.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0
Ambohioanambola
Plelotick 1972
Pieletick 1913
Pielatick 1981
Antsiraeb  (1)NO                                                      .VF
MOO   1)                                   NOT 8ST1HTED AS NM RELEVANT
MOO 1960                                      FOR PBRIOD CONCERNED.
AN 1964
mAN 1967
MAN 1968
Piolatick 1982
Nandrosesa
Sulzer 1949
Worthington 1951
SCXM 1955
Anual Tot. Firm Energy   S82.5  582.5  582.5  582.5  582.5  582.5  582.5  582.5  562.5  582.5
Energy req. with Boilers  238.1  250.8  344.4  361.9  389.6  416.8  434.0  448.5  463.7  479.7
Surplus/Deflcit         344.4  331.7  238.1  220.6  192.9  165.7  148.5  134.0  118.6  102*8
Energy req. w/out Boilers 238.1  250.8  264.7  273.1  295.4  317.4  331.2  345.7  360.9  376.9
Surplus/Deficit         344.4  331.7  317.8  309.4  287.1  265.1  251.3  236.8  221.6  205.6
uependable Capacity
Plant
Andeksleka Stage I       44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0
Andeksleka Stage II       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Andekaleka Stage III      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0*0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Antelonita                8.0    8.0    8.0    6.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    6.0    8.0    8.0
Manandona                 1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6
Mandraka                 20.0   20.0   20.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
Ambohimanambola
Pielstick 1972          6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Pieletick 1973          6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Pieletick 1981          6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Antairabe
KOO 1958             retire
MGO 1960             retire
IIAN 1964               101    l.l    l.l    1.1    l.l    III    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
MMN 1967 (2)            1.1    1.1    1.l    1.1    lot    lot    1.1    1.1    III    .1*
MAN 1968 (2)            1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8         1.8    1.6    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8
Pielstick 1982          7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
Sulzer 1984 (moved freo Toaasina)               8       8      8      8       8      a       8
Mandrosese
Sulner 1949          retire
Worthington 1951    retire
S9CC  1955           retire
An. Dependable Capacity   103.1  103.1  111.1  115.1  115.9  115.9  11S.9  11S.9  115.9  115.9
Required Syst. Ree. (3)    22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0
Syst.Peak v. Bollers        53.4   58.5   74.2   77.4   82.2   85.3   88.7   92.2   95.9   99.7
Cap.Surplus/Def0tt MK    27.7   22.6   14.9   1S.7   11.7    8.6    5.2    1.7   -2.0   -5.8
x     26.9   21.9   13.5   13.6   10.1    7.4    4.5    1.5   -1.7   -5.0
Syst.Peak w/out Rollers    53.4   58.5   60.8   64.1   69.1   72.2   75.6   79.1   82.8   86.6
Required System Resrve    29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5   29.5
Csp.Surplus/Def'ts IS    27*.   22.6   28.3   29.0   24.8   21.7   18.3   14.8   11.1    7.3
2     26.9   21.9   25.5   25.2   21.4   18.7   15.8   12.8    9.6    6.3
Notess (1) PFrm dlesel energy supply in not competed Wer as hydroelectric *nergy *vallability is In
excess of demand wall beyond 1995, and dlesl plant  o mainstained for peeking purpowe  only.
(2) Diesel pleat not atilised due to ltydropowar U  thu lfe extended as  ueb as to 1995.
(3)  serve  capacity blggest hydropower and dle*el unit out of service.



ENERGY I PROJECT
ISOLATED AND XTZERRAL ZONE CENTERS SALES FORECAST
(Glh)
Isolated Zon  Centers Sales 'drecast
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995 Growth Rate
85-95 (Z)
Low Voltage                           1.59   1.76   1.96   2.16   2.37   2.61   2.87   3.16   3.47   3.82   4.20  10.222
Nedium Voltage                        0.33   0.36   0.39   0.42   0.45   0.49   0.53   0.57   0.62   0.67   0.72   8.11Z
Internal Coosumptlon                  0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01
2.00O
TOTAL SALES                           1.92   2.13   2.36   2.58   2.83   3.11   3.41   3.74   4.10   4.50   4.94   9.882
Losses
-     Line                       7.50Z  0.16   0.17   0.19   0.21   0.23   0.25   0.28   0.30   0.33   0.36   0.40
Powr Station              3.502  0.08   0.08   0.09   0.10   0.11   0.12   0.13   0.15   0.16   0.18   0.19
REQUIRED GENERATION                   2.16   2.39   2.64   2.90   3.18   3.48   3.82   4.19   4.60   5.04   5.53   9.882
P1hZ DEKAND      Load factor 55.002  0.4S   0.50   0.55   0.60   0.66   0.72   0.79   0.87   0.95   1.05   1.15
xternal Zone Ceoters Ssles Forecast
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1"2   1993   1994   1995 Growth Iate
85-95 (Z)
Low Voltage                           41.6   43.4   45.3   47.3   49.4   52.0   54.6   57.5   60.5   63.8   67.2   4.91S
Mediu  Voltage                        73.8   77.3   76.2   81.5   92.5   96.8   99.8  102.8  105.1  107.6  110.3   4.102
Icternal Consumption                   6.0    6.0    6.1    6.2    6.2    6.4    6.5    6.7    6.8    7.0    7.2
2.002
OTAL SALES                           121.4  126.8  127.6  135.0  148.2  155*2  160.9  167*0  172*5  178*3  164.7   4.28Z
Losses
LIne                      7*502  9.84  10.28  10.35  10.95  12.01  12.58  13.05  13.54  13.98  14.46  14.97
Power Station             3.502  4.76   4.97   5*00   5*29   5.81   6.08   6.31   6.55   6.76   6.99   7.24
REQUIRED GENERATION                 136.02 142.03 142.97 151.28 165.98 173.82 180.30 187.05 193.20 199.7q 206.86   4.282
PEAK DuIAND      Load factor 55.OOZ 28.23  29.48  29.67  31.40  34.45  36*08  37.42  38.82  40.10  41.47  42.94



- 65 -
4M 4.6
EN=  Ino
PIVD StIX-DWI  ULMW  FR IUID m0E, AIrN    FM?MW
(th l  IUus of u       qd e#vat)
1983   1984    1985   1986      187   1988      1989   1990    199    1992      1993   1994    1 "
Urbsn populAtsn  ('000)           691.5   726.0   762.3   .4      60.5   885   926.6   972.9 1021.6  1072.7  1126.3  1182.6 1241.7
Rural patpaim ('000)            2184.5  2243.5  234.1  2366.3  2430.2  2495.8  2563.2  2634 203.4  2776.4  2851.4  29284 3007.4
lbtal populatdon ('000)          2876.0  2969.5  3066.4 3166.7  3270.6  3378.3  3489.8  3605.3 3725.0  3849.1  3977.7  4111.0 4249.2
t*lA  iv diaid ('OOOt)           2111.4  2189.4  2270.4 244.3  2420.6  249.5  2581.1  2665.4 2752.6  2842.8  2936.0  32.3  3132.0
0.01 elasLitdy frsa 1985 omrds
Sustainable awly
&tesaulwo farttaW
Fras(      O planai   (000 two)  329.92  323.59  317.38 311.29  305.33  299.48  293.76  28B.14 282.6A  277.25  271.97  266.79 261.72
Fhr  forests ('00O two)         45.82   45.82   45.82  45.82   45.82   45.82   45.82   45.82  45.82   45.82   45.82   45.82  45.82
Tounim faritamty
Fra plastai  (OCOtw)         129.60  129.60  129.60 129.60  129.60  129.60  129.60  129.60 129.60  129.60  129.60  129.60  129.6
ftm forests ('OOOtwe)          281.51  281.51  281.51 281.51  281.51  281.51  281.31  281.51 281.51  281.51  281.51  281.51 281.51
TOW  Sstainble                    786.9   780.5   774.3  768.2   762.3   756.4   750.7   745.1  739.6   734.2   728.9   723.7  718.7
SWly ('000tm)
EXti  modem RF1s
Electricity ('OOtm)             9.1      9.6    10.0   10.5    11.1    11.6    12.2    12*8   13.4    14.1    14.8    1S.6   16.3
LE ('000t.)                     62.4    65.5    68   72.3    75.9    79.7    83.7    87.8   92.2    96.8   101.7   106.8  112.1
?er ( 00IlOt)                    9.7    10.2    10.7   11.3    11.8    12.4    13.0    U.97   14.4       l. 15*1 IM       166   17.5
-ToaW  (COOOtwe)                 81.2    S5.3    89.6   94.1    98.8   103.7   108.9   114.3  1.0   126.0   132.3   139.0  14S.9
Urban Tr   aid                    63.3    65.7    68.1   70.3    72.6    75.0    77.4    80.0   82.6    85.3    88.1    91.0   94.0
0  1#Reid  ('OtlOm)
Deftcit Wthol                    1180.0  1257.9  1338.4 1411.7  148)i.0  1564.4  1644.1  1726.1  1810.4  1897.3  1986.6  2078.7 2173.5
Intenvntimn ('0000>)
Deficit In iHcta
equivalest ('eOM   plA&AM)        98.3   104.8   111.5  117.6   123.9   130.4   137.0   143.8  150.9   1S8.1   165.6   173.2  181.1
A) NM So
"ut Rro  Pis                     0.0      0.0     0.0   18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7   18.1    18.7    187    18.7   18.7
LoStil zims                      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    32.3    43.0    57.3    76.5  102.0   136.0   181.3   241A   32S
Samuill at                       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     2.1      2.7     3.7     4.9    6.5      8.7    11.5    15.4 2D,S
tac AloM   aIicol Briquettes     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     2.3    3.9      66    11.2    19.0   22.8
Ibtal dcoel                        0.0      0.0     0.0   18.7    53.0    64.5    79.7   102.4  131.1   170.0   222.8   2950  384.6
Agrdiotu l tiAaus
Rim bsk  1mcttes                 0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      3.5     4.7     6.3     8.3   IL1      14.8    19.8    26.4   35.2
9 btal                           0.0      0.0     0.0   18.7    56.6    69.2    86.0   110.7  142.2   184.8   242.6   321.4  419.7
B)>Uphldd PrAtcti
Tra1ltmal O1   I                 0.0      0.0     0.0   10.8    21.7    32.5    43.3    54.2   6S.0    73.8    86.6    97.5  M3.3
o3p _ta                           0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      3.2     4.3     5.8     7.7   10.2    13.7    18.2    24.3   32.4
Su94bta1                           0.0      0.0     0.0   10.8    24.9    36.8    49.1    61.8   75.2    89.5   10.9   121.8  140,7
C) Hiqle       m bi    FRol  pply
Ibrosn                           0.0      ).0     0.0    0.0      8.9    11.9    1S.8    21.1   28.1    37.5    500    66.7   89.0
Slsetrk:ity                      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0             11.0    15.5    21.7   30.3    42.4    59.4    83.2  110.5
&APbAIala                         0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     8.9    22.9    31.3    42.8   58.       80.0   109.5   149.9  199.5
WA 817                           931.4   931.5   932.0  962.  1024.0  1064.0 1 103.4  1154.7  1 .1  1299.8  14O62  1546.7 17184
Dit                              1180.0  1257.9  13384 1382.1  1396.6  1433.5 1 477.7  1510.8 1534.5  1543.0  129.7  14856 1413.5



>'~~~~' '' llj'
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.    ,    I G
..... ~      99



SNERG! I PROJECT
Reference Power Subsector Investment Plea (tIP) - Su ary. 1987-1992
(Final version sgreed at negotietions, Wabslngton, February 1987)
1987            1988               1989               199O               1991             Total
L     F     S T                            F      S F T                    L F T  L               F T  I  I  T   I  T
A. Investest Cowuonent
1. Portloe Depreclated over 40 years
Nosy-se eiesel                   0     0     0   116   140   255   260   732   992   196   729   925        0     0     0   571  1601  2172
Volobs  ydropower              821  135'  2178  2650  4985  7636   465  2117  2582       0      0     0     0     0     0  3936  8460 12396
Diesel RebabdlUtation           27    20    47   146   378   524   177   531   708   153   451   604    86   177   226   589  1557  2146
9ydropewer Rexebilitation      207   407   614   267   822  1089    86   284   370   400  1194  1593   208   691   899  1167  3398  4565
Trae-eision sad Substations  191   205   396   176   406   S81   108    74   181   212   579   791   213   583   798   900  1648  2748
Distrlbutlon  elanforeeenst    546  1528  2076   663  2067  2730   755  2289  3044   666  2304  2970   598  1981  2579  3230 10168 13398
LoV Cost Pilot Poject            8    33    41    25   181   206      0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0    33   214   247
Rlectrlc Boler Prigta           26    40    67    50   260   310       0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0    76   300   376
il. Portion Depreciated over 5 years
VebicleA for Jirau              34     0    34   150   680   830   234  1070  1304       0     0      0     0     0      0   418  1750  2167
Technical Services             146   72   918   456  2136  2592   263  1147  1409        0      0     0     0     0      0   865  4055  4920
Sub-Total                     2008  4362  6369  4698 12054 16752  2346  8244 10590  1627  5257  6884  1105  3434  4539 11784 33351 45134
S. Deaum    RcBtln   baitoence
-and 8tWidea Cavse
(not treated  s assts the eare ay as Investenwt Component)
1. Portion depreciated over 2 years as capital spares
Iosy-Be Desel                    0     0     0    20    25    45    46  129  175    35  129  163            0     0      0  101  283   383
Diesel Rebabilitation          150   113   264   826  2142  2968  1005  3008  4013   867  2556  3423   487  1005  1280  3335  8824 12160
1lydropower Relbl itation      112   219   331   144   443   587    46   153   199   215   643   858   112   372   484   628  1830  2458
Trenenlisoa and Substations   64    68   132    59   135   194    36    25    60    71   193   264    71   195   266   300   616   916
Distribution Reinforcement    137   382   519   166   517   682   189   572   761   167   576   743   150   495   645   808  2542  3349
il. Portion depreciated over S years
PlarnigA Aistanee               61   247   308    66   330   395    58   299   357    80   149   229        0     0     0   265  1025  1289
Small Hydropoer Plaming          0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0
Espnasioa Plannn Studies         0     0     0    54 897 951          0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0    54 897   951
Feasibiiity 8tudies              0  150   IS0       0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0 1S0   150
Sub-total                      524  1180  1703  1334  4488  5821  1380 4186  5566  1434  4245  5679   819  206   2887  5490 16166 21656
Total                         2531  5541  8072  6032 16542 22574  3726 12430 16156  3061  9502 12563  1924  5502  7426 17274 49517 66791
C. Other Components to be flnaced subject to feasibility studles
hmbodtroka Hydropower            0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0                100   500   600   100   500   600
(early construction costs)
Total JIhAr(  nvestment       2531 S541  8072  6032 16542 22574  3726 12430 16156  3061  9502 12563  2024  6002  8026 17374 50017 67391
(including Duties nd t zes)
In B}h  by Year at prevalling rate        6567              21485              17831              15945              11714             73542
Addltional Investments Agreed Outslde of RIP which do not add to JIRAKA debt service obligations                                                       2
Over INe 19-0 verlodx
Operatitg Spare Parts and           3280
Consonables                         1275-
Ulectric Poilers
(by eanterprise concerned)
TOTAL                             4555



- 68 -                       ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 5
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Project Description
The proposed project would aim at (a) rehabilitating the power
sector's generation, transmission and distribution system; (b) improving
the financial viability of the energy sector parastatals, most importantly
that of Jirama through increasing the use of existing hydroelectricity
surplus by domestic, small commercial and industrial consumers; (c)
strengthening the capability of Jirama to develop least-cost expansion
plans and investment programs; (d) strengthening the Government's energy
planning capacity; (e) initiating an integrated household energy planning
program; and (f) developing new biomass fuel sources for household and
industrial fuel supply. The proposed project includes the development of a
least-cost power subsector expansion program for the period 1988-2007, with
particular emphasis on needs for power subsector Investment for the
1988-1997 period.
Components
Most of the proposed power subsector rehabilitation items are
envisaged in two phases.   In all cases,  the first phase would cover
provision of the most urgently required spare parts and consultant services
that would define precisely the rehabilitation needs in the diesel and
hydrogeneration areas, ranking them according to economic priority, and
preparing specifications for procurement, bidding documents, implementation
schedules and a system for ongoing evaluation, monitoring and economic
prioritization  of  required  future works.    This phase will  last  6-12
months. The second phase generally includes procurement and installation
of spare parts, new plant, and management systems required to restore the
power system to stable and efficient levels of operation and ensure system
reliability over the medium term (2-5 years).
I. Power Components
(a) Generation:
(i)  Nosi-B6  Diesel:    A  new  diesel  power  etation  would  be
commissionned by 1990 with three 800 kW units, which would complement the
800 kW unit added as part of the first phase of emergency upgrading and
repairs to the existing old power station (see Diesel rehabilitation
below).
(b) Diesel Generatlig Stations Rehabilitation
(i) Mahajunga:   One new oil storage tank, one settling tank,
including all fuel handling and treatment facilities, as well as augmenting
the supply of spare parts and engine repair as part of the first phase of
rehabilitation.   The second phase would include a second storage and
settling tank and related oil handling facilities, Including an incinerator
for spent oil, and workshop.



-69-
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 5
(ii) Nosi-B6: An urgent repair and capacity augmentation program
is envisaged in order to stablize supply before the commissionning of a new
diesel  power  plant  in  1990.    This, first  phase  would  include  the
installation of a new 800 kW unit in the old power station, further
transfer of additional capacity from Toliary powerhouse, and the supply of
spare parts and consumables.
(iil) Other Stations: A detailed review of other diesel power
generating stations would be completed so as to determine which units
should be abandoned and the preclse nature of the required repair and
rehabilitation  program  in  accordance  with  economic  and  strategic
priorities.
(iv)  Spare  Parts:    The  project  would  provide  economically
justified spare parts and consumable items as determined by an assessment
of each of the generating stations made as Phase I of the project.
(v) Mobile Maintenance: Four wheel drive trucks and trailers
equipped with one 200 kW generating unit, complete sets of hand and power
tools (lathe, drill, grinder, etc) and commonly used spare parts and
consumables.
(c) Hydroelectric CGerating Stations Behabilitation
(i) Vatomandry: Repair of electrical system to allow units to
operate in synchronism,  and repairs to the turbine governors.   Other
repairs would be made only if economically justified and could include
replacement of the penstock and miscellaneous repairs to dam, spillway, and
transmission line, as well as the supply of spare parts.
(iL) Manandray: General overhaul of the plant would be carried
out initially with emphasis on the electrical equipment and the control
system so as to ensure continued stable operation. This would be followed,
if economic and strategically sound, by the replacement of one turbine
runner, which would also augment plant energy and capacity, minor repairs
to the dam, and the supply of a stock of spare parts.
(iii) Manandona: General overhaul of the plant would be under-
taken with emphasis on electrical controls, switchgear, and transformers.
The turbines and generators would be overhauled and repairs to the dam
completed, in order to restore operational reliability and augment the firm
plant energy and capacity output.
(iv) Mandraka: Enlargement of the supply canal to the intake so
as to improve the hydraulic capacity and permit the generation of an
additional 4 MW during peak demand periods. Other options for reconfigura-
tion of its peaking capacity would be examined before finalizing invest-
ment.
(d) Transmission and Substatioos: As for the generation expendi-
tures, an urgent first phase would be included to prevent prolongued
outages, followed by a second phase of orderly repair to enable longer term
stable operation at anticipated demand levels.



- 70 -
ANNEX 5.2
(i) Transmission: Provision of new poles and lightning protection
and by the addition of a ground wire for the completion of the ongoing
rehabilitation of the 63 kV line between Antananarivo and Antsirabe plus
various maintenance and repair tasks on other transmission lines.
(ii) Substations: Spare parts for switchgear would be provided as
a matter of urgency, new transformers and related switchgear would be
provided to cover system expansion and to fully rehabilitate Toamasina
substations in Phase II.
(e) Distribution: This component would comprise, firstly, rehabili-
tation of existing netowrks, followed by major expansion, and new design
trials.
(i) Pilot Project: To establish revised design criteria to reduce
casts of providing electric service to domestic and small commercial
consumers and in and around existing urban supply centers.
(ii) Distribution Reinforcement:
(a)   Rehabilitation Material: Provision of the necessary
conductor, pole hardware and distribution transformers for already
programmed works, as well as additional similar material to establish a
required stock of spare parts and materials.
(b)   New Connections:   Distribution material needed to
provide service progressively up to the level of about 6,500 consumers per
year, Including poles, conductors, transformers, service drops, meters and
associated equipment would be provided towards meeting a backlog presently
estimated in 1986 at more than 10,000 customers.
(f) General Plant:
(M) Vehicles for Jirama: About $250,000 worth of spare parts and
about 100 new vehicles (utility trucks, cable carriers, pole carriers, 4WD
transport vehicles, and personel carriers) would be provided.
(ii) Technical Services:
(a) Communications:    The  provision  of  spare  parts  for
existing radio facilities and the provision of new fixed and mobile radios
for the ICS and radio and telecommunications equipment for communication
between JIRAMA headquarters and other major supply zones.
(b) Meter Laboratory: The provision of a new test bench,
rotating standards, and miscellaneous testing equipment.
(c) Monitoring Equipment:   The provision of specialized
Instruments and tools and techniques, and the training of personnel in
modern diesel power plant operation and maintenance.
(d) Computers  and  Software:    Equipment  compatible with
existing computer facilities would be procured for both computerization of
consumer billing and accounts in the Zone Exteriore supply centres, and for



- 71 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 4 of 5
computerization of the asset base, including a complete asset revaluation.
Computer maintenance training and a complete review of JIRAMA computeriza-
tion policy and planning are also included.
(g) Power Sector Institution Buildiug:
(i) Planning Assistance:   Provision of  24 man-months for a
resident power system planner, plus 27 man-months of back-up consulting
services for specialized advice and training in Madagascar within the
Direction of Economic Studies and Planning (DEEP), Jirama, and $210,000 for
overseas training for long and short duration courses, and study tours,
shared by DEEP and the Direction of Electrical Equipment. The component
would include computer software, hardware, specialized office equipment and
library support.
(5) P?smr Sector Studies:
(1) Least Cost Expansion Planning and Tariffs: Funds would be
provided to cover the cost of consultants for the preparation of a power
sector master plan for Madagascar with emphasis on transfer of models and
skills so as to enable dynamic updating of plans and investment programs as
part of regular utility planning, budgeting and management.   It would
include the development of strategy to achieve a rational tariff structure
within an acceptable period.
(ii)  Hydropower Feasibility Studies:   Supplemental funding to
ensure the completion of a full feasibility study for the scaled-down
version of the Ambodiroka hydropower plant.
(1) Electric UJiler Prograu:  Foreign exchange financing of about
18 MW of electric boller capacity, serving an annual energy demand of about
96 GWh, to be installed at PAPMAD (paper-mill), Savonnerie Tropicale
(soap), SOMACO (textiles), and the Rilton Hotel.
II. Energy Components
(a) Dousebold and Idustrlal Fuels:
(i) Charcoal Production and Training:   Provision for commercial
production with private sector participation, or commercial-scale pilot
production under FANALAMANGA's management, of charcoal from pine thinnings
and othar fuel quality residues at the Haut Mangoro pine plantation. The
project would Include technical assietance for the training of the
traditional private sector charcoal makers in more efficlent methods of
charcoal production, plus consultant services for commercial-scale charcoal
production in the FANALAMANGA pine plantation and for the development of
the charcoal market in the industrial sector.
(ii) Rice Husk Briguettes: Provision of screw-press briquetting
equipment and consultants services to commission and monitor the production
of a pilot project for the production of 1500 tonnes per year of rice husk
briquettes, in Antananarivo.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 5 of 5
(b) Umergy Planulg Support:
(1)   Energy Planning  Administration:    This  component would
strengthen energy planning administration in the GOM. it would include the
provision of 2.5 man-years of a resident consultant advisor to the Director
of Energy and Water in MIEM, and of 33 man-months of back-up consulting
services for specific training and specialist inputs for energy policy,
planning and investment program review. In addition, provision is made for
a study to review the options to minimize the cost of petroleum products
supply, including procurement of crude and products and the development of
a least cost expansion plan and investment program for the sector
encompassing storage and distribution facilities and crude refining.  The
energy planning component would also include computer facilities, vehicles,
office equipment and about five man-years of overseas training.
(ii) Household Energy Planning Program:    This component would
enable the establishment of least cost supply and dewand management plans,
investment programs and policies for the reduction of the economic cost and
environmental impact of household cooking fuel supply to major urban
centres, including Antananarivo, Mahajunga and, logistics and funding
permitting, Toliary. The program would include household energy surveys,
reviews of woodfuels supply and marketing business, biomass resource
assessment and cooking efficiency components. The project would include 3
man-years for a resident program manager, 82 man-months of specialist
services, vehicles, computer facilitles, and office and scientific
equipment and services.
(c) Roergy Sector Studles:
(i)  Industrial Energy Audits:   Detailed ranklng of industrial
energy conservation needs and preparation of investment programs and
detailed specification and costing of the economically most important
measures, following a preliminary review by others.
(ii) Lac Aloatra Region Study: Detailed review of energy supply
and demand and development of a least cost master plan for regional energy
development in the Lac Aloatra rice growing region.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5.03
Page I of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS WITH CONTINGENCIES INCLUDED IN EACK ITEM
FMG btllions        US$ millions
L     F     T       L      F     T
A. Power Subsector Components
1.Generation
Nosy-Be Diesel                    0.36  2.20  2.56    0.33  1.88  2.22
Diesel Rehabllitation             1.82 10.74 12.56    1.56  9.08 10.64
Hydropower 1ehablltatlon          0.20  4.82  5.02    0.21  4.23  4.44
Subtotal                2.38 17.75 20.13    2.10 15.19 17.30
2.Transdisslon & Sub-Stations         0.72  2.96  3.68    0.66  2.46  3.12
3.Distribution
Distrlbution Relnforcement         1.47 14.44 15.91    1.32 12.71 14.03
Low Cost Pilot Project             0.00  0.20  0.20    0.00  0.21  0.22
Subtotal                1.48 14.64 16.12    1.32 12.92 14.25
4.General Plant
Vehicles for Jirama                0.03  1.83  1.86    0.03  1.75  1.78
Technical Services                 0.00  2.94  2.94    0.00  3.05  3.05
Subtotal                0.03  4.77  4.80    0.03  4.80  4.84
5.Power Sector Institution Building
Planning Assistance                0.26  1.03  1.29    0.25  1.02  1.27
6.Power Sector Studies
Expansion Planalng 6 Tariffs       0.05  0.85  0.90    0.05  0.90  0.95
Hydropower Feasibility Studies    0.06  0.12  0.18    0.07  0.15  0.22
Subtotal                 0.11  0.98  1.08    0.12  1.05  1.17
7.Electrtc Boiler Program             0.18  1.49  1.67    0.19  1.58  1.77
Subtotal Power Components          5.15 43.62 48.77    4.68 39.03 43.71
B. Energy Production Components
8.Household and Industrial Fuels
Charcoal                          0.09  1.03  1.11    0.09  1.00  1.09
Rice Husk Briquettes              0.04  0.25  0.29    0.04  0.25  0.29
Subtotal                0.13  1.28  1.40    0.13  1.25  1.38
C. Energy Sector Institution Building
9.Energy Planning Support
Energy Planning Administration   0.50  1.43  1.93    0.48  1.41  1.89
Household Energy Planning         1.66  1.69  3.34    1.54  1.67  3.21
Subtotal                2.16  3.11  5.27    2.02  3.07  5.09
10lJergy Sector Studies
Industrial Energy Audits          0.00  0.29  0.29    0.00  0.30  0.30
Lac Aloatra Region Study          0.00  0.29  0.29    0.00  0.30  0.30
Subtotal               0.00  0.57  0.57    0.00  0.60  0.60
Subtotal Energy Sector Components  2.29  4.96  7.25    2.15  4.93  7.07
Project Preparation a/              0.00  0.71  0.71    0.00  0.87  0.87
Total Project Cost gxcl. D&T          7.44 49.29 56.73    6.83 44.83 51.66
Duties and Taxes                     9.10  0.00  9.10    8.15  0.00  8.15
Total (mdcl. Duties/Tax)              16.54 49.29 65.83   14.98 44.83 59.81
a   Fuinanced wlth funds advanced under PPFs in October and Dscember, 1986.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5.3
Pra o 2 Ef 3
EADA4ASCAR
mNmRGY K PROJECT
SUIHARY OF COSTS WITV CONTINGENCIES SHOWN SEPARATELY
FHG billions        US$ millions
L     F     T       L      F     T
A. Power Subs ctor Comonents
l.Gnerstion
Now Diesel Plant                  0.31  1.86  2.17    0.29  1.60  1.89
Diesel Rehabilitation             1.61  $.49 11.10    1.39  8.06  9.45
Hydropower Rehabilitation         0.19  4.33  4.52    O.d9  3.82  4.01
,Subtotal                2.11 15.68 17.78    1.87 13.48 15.35
2.Transiession                        0.64  2.59  3.23    0.59  2.17  2.76
3. Distribution
Distribution Relnforcemsnt         1.26 12.24 13.50    1.14 10.87 12.00
Low Cost Pilot Project              .00  0.18  0.18      .00  0.19  0.19
Subtotal                1.26 12.42 13.68    1.14 11.06 12.19
4.Gsneral Plant
Vehieles for Jirave                0.02  1.60  1.63    0.03  1.54  1.57
Technical Services                 0*00  2.73  2.73    0.00  2.84  2.84
Subtotal               0.02  4.33  4.3S    0.03  4.37  4.40
S.Power Sector Institution Building
Plananig Assistance                0.23  0.95  1.18    0.22  0.94  1.16
6.Power sector Studies
Expanston Planning & Tariffs      0.05  0.79  0.84    0.05  0.83  0.88
Hydropower Feaslblity Studies   0.06  0.12  0.18    0.07  0.15  0.22
Subtotal                0.10  0.91  1,02    0.12  0.98  1.10
7.Electric Boller Program             0.17  1.38  1.55    0.18  1.46  1.64
Subtotal Power Components          4.54 38.25 42.79    4.16 34.45 38.61
B. Energy Production Components
B,ousehold and Industrial Fuels
Charcoal                          0.08  0.98  1.06    0.09  0.96  1.04
Rice Husk Briquettes              0.03  0.21  0.24    0.03  0.21  0.25
Subtotal               0.12  1.19  1.31    0.12  1.17  1.29
c. Energy Sector Institution BuildingL
9.Energy Planning Support
Energy Planning Administtration   0.46  1.30  1.76    0.44  1.29  1.73
Household Energy Planning         1.49  1.54  3.03    1.39  1.53  2.92
Subtotal                1.94  2.85  4.79    1.82  2.82  4.65
10.Energy Sector Studies
Industrlal Energy Audits          0.00  0.28  0.28    0.00  0.29  0.29
Lae  Aloatra Region Study         0.00  0.28  0.28    0.00  0.29  0.29
Subtotal               0.00  0.55  0.55    0.00  0.58  0.58
Subtotal Energy Sector              2.06  4.59  6.65    1.94  4.57  6.52
Project Preparation a/              0.00  0.71  0.71    0.00  0.87  0.87
Total Bas. Cost                        6.60 43.55 50.14   6*.10 39.90 46.00
Contingencies
Phystel                             0*40  2.67  3.07    0*37  2.60  2.97
Price                                0*43  2.75  3.18    0.35  2.33  2.69
Total (excl. Duties/Taxes)             7.43 48.96 56.39    6.83 44.83 51.66
Duties and Taxes                     9.10  0.00  9.10    8.1S  0.00  8.1S
Total (tact. Duties/Taxes)            16.52 4R.96 65.49   14.98 44.83 59.81
(  tinanced with funds advanced undra me in October and Decomber, 1986.



- 75            ~            ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY SHOWING INDIVIDUAL COST CATEGORIES
(Contingencles not included tn each sub-project)
IWG billions        US$ millions
L     F     T        L     F     T
Base Cost
Civil Worge, Equipment, Materials & Installation
A. Power Subsector Components
1.Generation
Nosy-Be D0esel Plant              0.1)  1.62  1.79    0.16  1.37  1.53
Diesel Rehabilitation             1.40  9.38 10.78    1.19  7.95  9.14
Hydropower Rehabilitation         0.12  3.99  4.11    0.12  3.52  3.64
S Subtotal               1.69 14*99 16.67    1.47 12.85 14.31
2.Transmission & Substations          0.58  2.59  3.17    0.54  2.17  2.71
3.Distribution
Distributlon Reinforcement         1.03 12.24 13.27    0.90 10.87 11*77
Low Cost Pilot Project             0.00  0.12  0.12    0.00  0.13  0.13
Subtotal                1.03 12.36 13.39    0.90 11.00 11.90
4.General Plant
Vehicles for Jirsam                0.00  1.60  1.60    0.00  1.54  1.54
Technical Services                 0.00  2.30  2.30    0.00  2.41  2.41
Subtotal                0.00  3.90  3.90    0.00  3.95  3.95
5.Power Sector Institutlon Building
Planning Assistance                0.23  0.95  1.18    0.22  0.94  1.16
6.Power Sector Studies
Expaosion Planning & Tariffs      0.05  0.79  0.84    0.05  0.83  0.88
Hydropower Feasibility Studies   0.06  0.12  0.18    0.07  0.15  0.22
Subtotal                0.10  0.91  1.02    0.12  0.98  1.10
7.Electric Boller Program             0.14  1.31  1.46    0.15  1.38  1.53
Subtotal Power Components          3.78 37.01 40.79    3.40 33.26 36.65
S. Energy Production Coomonents
8.Rousehold and Industrial Fuels
Charcoal                          0.07  0.48  0.55    0.08  0.51  0.58
Rice Husk Briquettes              0.03  0.15  0.18    0.03  0.15  0.18
Subtotal               0.10  0.63  0.73    0.10  0.66  0.76
C. Energy Institution Building
9.3nergy Planning Support
Energy Planning Administration   0.46  1.30  1.76    0,44  1.29  1.73
Household Energy Planning         1.49  1.54  3.03    1.39  1.53  2.92
Subtotal                1.94  2.85  4.79    1.82  2.82  4.65
10.Energy Sector Studles
Industrial Energy Audits          0.00  0.28  0.28    0.00  0.29  0.29
Lat  Alostra Region Study         0.00  0.28  0.28    0.00  0.29  0.29
Subtotal               0.00  0.55  0.55    0.00  0.58  0.58
New Diesel Plant                  0.31  1.86  2.17    0.29  1.60  1.89
Subtotal Egy Sector Institutions    1.94  3.40  5.34    1.82  3.40  5.23
Engineering and Administratlon        0.77  1.80  2.57    0.77  1.71  2.48
Total Base Cost                6.60 42.84 49.44    6.10 39.03 45.13
Contingencies
Physical                              0.40  2.67  3.07    0.37  2.60  2.97
Price                                 0.43  2.75  3.18    0.35  2.33  2.69
Total Contingencies                  0.83  5.42  6.25    0.73  4.93  5.66
Duties and Taxes                       9.10  0.00  9.10    8.15  0.00  8.15
Subtotal                     16.52 48.26 64.78   14.98 43.96 58.94
Project Preparation al          0.00  0.71  0.71    0.00  0.87  0.87
Total Project Cost                 16.52 48.96 65.48   14.98 44.83 59.81
Y Financed with funds advanced under PPFs io October ad December, 1986.



- 76-
AMNEX 5.4
HADAGSAR
ENERGY I PRDJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPURENTION SCI DUIZ
Bid
Documents    Bid    Contract      Implemntatlon
Compoent                            or TOR    Opening   Award   Begining   Completion
Nosi-b6 New Diesel                   11/88       2/89      4/89      6/89         12/90
Hydropowar Rehabilitation
Consultants                           2/87       5/87      7/87      8/87         12/89
Repairs Phase I                       8/87       11/87     1/88      3/88         12/89
Repairs Phase II                      6/89       10/89    12/89      1/90         12/91
Diesel Rehabilitation
Consultants                           2/87       5/87      7(87      8/87         12/90
Repairs Phase I                       1/88       3/88      5/88      7/88         12/89
Repairs Phase II                      6/89      10/89    12/89       1/90         12/91
Transmission                         12/87       4/88      6/88      7/88         12/89
Electric Boilers                      6/87       10/87    12/87      1/88         12/88
Distribution                          8/87      12/87      2/88      4/88         12/88
SUPDort S ervices
Cominications and
Meter Laboratory                   12/87       2/88      4/88      6/88         12/88
Computer Services Phase I             2/88       5/88      7/88      9/88          6/90
Phase II           2/89        5/89     7/89      9/89          6/91
Vehicles  Phase I                     8/87      12/87      2/88      4/88          6/88
Phase II                   12/88       3/89     5/89       7/89        12/90
Institution Building
JIgRm   Technical Assistance          6/87      10/87    12/87       3/88          6/91
Eoergy Planning Administration        3/87       6/87      9/87     12/87         12/90
Household Energy Planning             9/87      12/87      3/88      6/88         6/91
Power Studies
Ambodiroka                           10/86      12/86      2/87      3/87         12/87
Expansion Plan/Tariffs                6/87      10/87    12/87       1/88         12/89
Energy Production
Charcoal T.A.                       9/87      11/87      1/88      3/88         3/91
Charcoal Production                 6/87       9/87    12/87       2/88         2/91
Rice Bask Briquettes           9/87-3/88 12/87-6/88      9/88     10/88         12/91
Energy Studies
Industrial Energy                  12/87       3/88      6/88      7/88         12/89
Lae Aloatra                         6/87       9/87    11/87       1/88          6/89



- 77 -
AMNEN 5,5
NADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Electric Boiler Project - General Contract Terms and Conditions
1.        General conditions  Ef the proposed contracts were discussed with
the enterprises and with JIRAMA during appraisal. They are that:
a) The enterprises would own and operate electric boilers they would
procure for their needs;
b) JIRAMA would reinforce the network sufficient to supply
installations at the maximum possible boilkr demand;
c) JIRAMA would supply non-interruptable power at negotiated
concessional rates for a guaranteed period (possibly through
1992/93); thereafter with interruption clauses applying,. when
power at weekday, daytime peaks nay be limited but energy would
not be a constraint (possibly through 1996/97), and then for
major interruptions, daily or seasonally when hydro-energy may be
limited, though boiler operation could be guaranteed on
concessional rates during weekends and at night and non-peak
periods in daytime (possibly through year 2000).
d) Prices would be formula-based, taking into account inflation,
price variation for substitute fuel and other factors which may
prove relevant. Reviews of pricing formulae and other terms and
conditions would take place after the first period of
unrestricted supply.
e) Enterprises would be required to maintain in satisfactory working
condition their present fuel oil or woodfuel boilers.



- 78 -                             AME 5.6
!Wige1 f 4
MADGASCAR
ENRGY I PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(Us$ millions)
Other
Item                       DA    JIRAM         GOM        Ancles       Total
F     L     F     L     F     L     F     L     F   Total
Power Sector Camponents
1. Nsy Be                        0.3                           1.9   0.3   1*9   2.2
2. Hydropower Rehab         4.2  0.2                                  0.2   4*2   4.4
3. Diesel Rebab             5.5  1.6                            3.5   1.6   9.0  10.6
4. Tran 8mission            -    0.6                            2.5   0.6   2.5   3.1
5.  Elc. Boilers            1.6                          0.2          0.2   1.6   1.8
6.  Distribution            3.0  1.3                            9.9   1.3  12.9  14.2
7.  Supprt Services         1.1                                 2.0         3.1   3.1
8.  Vehicles                1.7                                             1.7   1.7
9. Institutional
Strengthening         1.0 0.3                                   0.3   1.0   1.3
10. Studies                 1.1 0.1                                  0.1   1.1   1.2
Subtotal                19.2  4.4                     0.2  19.6  4.6  39.0  43,6
nergy Sector Comoats
1. Energy Planning
Administration        1.4              0.5                      0.5   1.4   1.9
Hbusehold Energy      1.6              1.6                      1.6   1.6   3.2
2. Energy Production
Charcoal              1.0              0.1                      0.1   1.0   1.1
Rice RHsks            0.3                                             0.3  0.3
3.  Sector Studies          0.6                                            0.6  0.6
Subkotal                 4.9              2.2         0.2          2.2   4.9   7.1
PPP                         0.9                                             0.9   0.9
Duties and Taxes                 6.1         2.1                      8.2         8.2
Overall Ibtal              25.0 10.5         4.3         0.2  19.8  15.0  44.8  59.8



- 79 -
14~ 
IN= I PrJC?
FilwactDg Pla for P r Ssector bferwees rnvst  Pt agrn (RIP) and Imrp SEt or
(US$ tmEsl: forei  adug  reidmts cely)
RIP-- DI --                 z   NB  BAfA SM
Foe  I   tsw   IL
A. Pam sasm8aR omaW1S
1. Volobe                          8460       0              8060                            0
2. New )esel Plat (Nosyi)          1884       0                       1884                   0
3. 1fdropcmr Sehabitatimi
8L -
Yuxtrka bsbmlltatLon           2806    2BD6         0                                     0
Mtekmuita     l0itat1n          835        0                                      8s     0
Nau.um  Rd11AtatJ(              440      440                                        0    0
Spre Pats - General.            347      18                                       16     0
3i)totl                      1.4428    3428      0                          0  I=      0
If ficlaIy Taproeuts              800       0      800                          0          0
TO                        s228    34         80        0        0        0100        0
4. Diesel Rbtatio
Pebabilitatiii & Spam          818       30D    300D    1300    3M                       0
MM  M t o                      2200        0    2200                 0                    0
Toa                        10382      300    5200    1300    358           0    0    0
5. Tasdoc
w=lICUtation                    327        0                       327                   0
213        0                       2137                   0
IbTal                       2464       0        0              2464                   0
6. Mctric Boilers                   300     300        0                                     0
& coaultants)
7. Dl18triaition
Pilot Project                   214      214                                             0
~bsbllltst4a   ter1al          3137      109     L3OD                      1728          0
NW C cti                       9572       0      1400             4500    3672           0
Ttal                       I292       323    270         0    4500    54        0    0
Garal Plat & &          t  ervices
A. Spp=  Serdvi
c aumd    2m 00                         0                      200                    0
Nie Lowa                      IsD      I 
?~1nts_su           t        1000        0             1000                            0
C8& Sen11 s       9Q5      Ws605    300                                     0
Subtotal                  4055      755      300    100      2000        0    0    0
B. Veidw                        1750      750    1000                                     0
Ts                   5805    1505    1300    1OO0    200                        0



- 80 -                                     AM      5.6
Big 3 1 4
Pinancing Plan for Pr w    ecta Referamom Testment Prog   (RUP) an!d bur  Sectr kzwbW
(US$ thmmbxs: foreiP ex amap re#Lruets my)
MP  - m InkB   M1Ig   SSS Wm   ax!ed
Pho  I Phase r
9. Pow  Sector In.tstaic  Midi
Tecical bat. Plamir4          1025    1025                                             0
10. Suies
Wdropum Feaibility Sud         150      150                0       0                   0
least Cost EMnsim Plm          w        897                                            0
ibtal                           1047    1047        0        0       0.       0    0    0
P        SIDSDM  SUBM1TL         49518    7928   10000   10760   14430    S400 140         0
hAbodivoka                         5O
(uhdic cma be regarded
as incl4in  uallocated)
Pam  S DSE      WML              50018    7928   10000   10760   14430    5400 100D    0
FEMTnG SPARES                     3280                      2780                    500a/
Mectric Boilers                   1275    1275
(eawprpda iuvesums powimi
-         IAilielUS Do ,ll_
1io FPnaz Proposed for RUP:             Eclwqe   Firm Pinuzing Actual A11o.atiu
Cai   Centrale              84 mi Frmh PFrs    6.20             13.55         13.54
Eropeam  1wst. Bank       13.5 m   mi              0.91         14.85         14.43
mdms  tvelopot Coop.       2.2 m   Wmdss FrancS    1.47          1.50           1.5
BAJA                       5.4 m  US Dolz          1.00          5.40           5.4
Toa                                                                   34.87
a/      - Sds   mlkopnt Cberaon fulirg cm be apsplid to the prcs of Wias  te sae
pat for Volobe pWroided this to ooitemt idth the rebb iptatien oim firlly selected.
Volobe spare par  would be financed by reallocatig Sds fuufDng for geral spae p pas ad
-wtb spare.



- 81 -                                       AM   5.6
Peg 4 of 4
Tincirg Plm for Pow    sector 1eferos Investnt Ptpngm (tIP) and Eb y Sector   euwsft
(US$ thu bs: forelip exibup reqursa  only)
B: ENRG  S 8CeU  , M               Tal.
Rdre
&urw                      -rps  nuc    Plm
Setor                         (Us$   )muos)
Irwestunmts  DIM     1ED      FAC    Other    Othe        Unfrm
1. Duvpab 94wr
%erg  Pig.    r a            1406    1406                                                0
Ixb held E&w  Plamng         1969    1669      300                                      0
Thtal                       3375    3075       300                0        0           0
2. B-IM  Probuction C'q9mits
Chrcoal                       1000    1000                                               0
Rkce Hlsk Briquettes           252      252                                               0
tal                         1252    1252        0        0        0        0    0      0
3. FRg  Sector St%Jiss
TnUtial Meg l     Adit II      600      300     300                                      0
Lac Aloatra Regioa Stp*        300      300                                              0
btal                         900      600     300        0        0        0    0      0
FAL ENM o afawas                  5527    4927      600                 0        0           0
C: Mk Project Prej. FacUlty        870      870                                              0
FDMAU  of IT ESDW  PLAS   Investmnt ID  0            EB E3 BAWA         S WMS       FA: Ufuiad
CmdAbed Energ & POW             Prgra
TLIBetZRmt Pfgpus
(areot US$)                    56415   23725  10760  14430  5400    1000  600    0   500
OERAL FIIDG
(nxlixtg aperating sper          60      25000  13540 14430  5400    LW0   600    0    SOD
and electric boilers)



- 82 -
ANNEX 5.7
MDAGACAR
RGY I PROJECT
ESTIMATED sCHEDULE or DISSURSEHENTS a/
(US$ Minions)
TrA Fiscal           Semester           Semester       Cumulative        X of
fear Semester        Ending          Disbursements   Disbursements       Total
88-1                 12/31/87             0.25             0.25             1
88-2                 6/30/88              0.75             1.00             4
89-1                 12/31/88             1.25             2.25             8
89-2                 6/30/89              2.75             5.00            20
90-1                 12131/89             3.50             8.50            34
90-2                 6/30,'90             4.00            12.50            50
91-1                 12/31/90             3.75            16.25            65
91-2                 6/30/91              3.25            19.50            78
92-1                 12/31/91             2.50            22.00            88
92-2                 6/30/92              3.00            25.00           100
a/ The disbursement sebedule confirms with the standard profile for Bank
loans and IDA credits for power projects in the Eastern and Soutbern
Africa Region.



-83 -                        ANNEX 6.1
page I of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
JIRAMA Reform Measures
Financial Measures
1.        Capital Increase.  The 1986 increase has been calculated at about
FMG 7.42 billion and to designed to balance JIRAMA's 1986 cash flow.  To
effect the equity contribution the GOM may make payment to JIRAMA; an
offsetting arrangement against JIRAMA's 1986 debt service owed to GOM is
another possibility.   Further capital increases in 1987-1990 totalling
about FMG 18 billion are necessary to strengthen JIRAMA's weak equity
base.  Annual amounts are estimated FMG 4, 7.6, 4.6 and 2.3 billion for
1987 to 1990 respectively.
2.        Consolidation of Short-term Debt.  FMG 1.73 billion of overdraft
with BNI will be converted into a medium-term loan of 5 years, at 15.5S
interest, in line with current domestic interest rates for this type of
financial instrument.
3.            Rescheduling of Andekaleka and Namorona Loans.   Both power
generation assets are performing at only a fraction of capacity as demand
growth has not kept pace with the rates projected at the time the
investment decisions for these projects were made.   Sales revenues are
therefore insufficient to cover the debt service and in recent years JIRAMA
has had trouble meeting its debt service obligations vis-a-vis the COM,
which had onlent to JIRAMA funds from IDA, Opec Fund, BADEA, CIDA, CCCE,
OECI, Kuwait Fund, and Saudi Fund. Under the rescheduling, the level of
principal repayment to GOM will be tied to the rate of utilization of the
power plant that the loans financed. Similarly, only interest equivalent
to the rate of utilization will be payable; for the rest Government will
make matching capital contributions.  The implied change In onlending terms
may require the approval by some of the donors; however, such approval is
not expected to be withheld. IDA has offered to explain if necessary the
rationale for rescheduling to other donors.   Based on present demand
forecast, full principal repayment would commence by about 1996.   The
portion of principal payable in 1987-1992 would be 36X, 55%, 602, 701, 761
and 791 respectively.
4.         Divestiture of Subsidiary and Associated Operations.  JIRAMA's
light bulb, water meter, and electrical appliances activities are incurring
continuous losses requiring cash injections that JIRAMA cannot afford.
These operations will either be sold, transferred to the portfolio of the
PNI, or liquidated, and preceded if necessary by a period of mothballing.
For the financial rehabilitation program it is assumed that the divestiture
would not yield any positive cashflow.   The benefit would be to avoid
future losses and cash drains and to enable JIRAMA to concentrate its
efforts on its mainstream business of electricity and water supply.
5.         Reduction of 1986 Investment Program.  During appraisal it was
agreed with JIRAMA to adjust the program downward by FMG 1 billion
reflecting actual 1986 investments to date and realistic implementation
exoectations during the rest of the year.



- 84 -                        ANNEX 6.1
page Z or 3
6.         Settlement of Arrears.  Based on end 1985 figures the arrears to
be settled in line with the schedule of Table 6.3 would be as follows:
(PMG billion)
1986     1987
(a) Arrears to be settled by
JIRAMA vis-a-vis
(i)   General Budget                 2.5      1.3
(11)  Autonomous and
Annexed Budgets                 -        -
(iii) INI                             -        -
(iv)  Municipalities                 0.0      1.5
Subtotal              2.5       2.8
(b) Arrears to be settled
vis-a-vis JIRAMA by
gi)   General Budget                 2.4      1.2
(ii)  Autonomous and
Annexed Budgets                0.7      0.4
(iii) FNI                            0.0 a/   0.0 b/
(iv)  Others                         0.1      0.0
(v)   Municipalities                  -       1.9
Subtotal              3.2       3.5
(c) Surplus for JIRAMA                   0.7      0.7
a/  1MG 15 million
b/ FMG 7 million
ci rMG 37 million
The figures above are indicative as additional arrears incurred during 1986
would be part of the settlement package.
(d) To help avoid recurrence of arrears, JIRAMA will introduce new rules
regarding the delivery and payment of its services by the administrative
sector.   These rules are expected  to be similar to those governing
households and commercial customers where the disconnection penalty is
quickly applied and outstanding receivables are accordingly quite low.
Cost Reduction
7.         Simplification of Tariffs. Whereas the necessary general reform
of JIRAMA's tariffs can only be designed and implevented once the results
of the tariff study (para. 5.07(f)) are available, the number of tariffs
can be reduced now without much study as many tariffs differ only slightly
from each other.  JIRAMA's 100 or so tariffs can easily be consolidated
into 50 or less, making tariff administration and billing simpler and less
costly.   As part of the simplification effort, JIRAMA will reduce the
number of power meters per consumer from two to one, which will not only
have an Impact on billing and meter reading but also reduce connection
costs for new customers.



-85-                 ~~~~~ANNEX 6.1
- 85 -page 3 of 3
Revenue Increases
8.         Tariff Increases.  Tariff increases are expected to be necessary
in each of the years covered by the forecastitig period.   Together with
capital increases and other measures these are necessary to compensate for
local inflation (about 15-17X p.a.) as well as to rebuild some measure of
financial strength within JIRAMA. Annual percentage increases will be 17%
and 91 for 1987 and 1988, and are projected at 24X, 12%, 12% and 221 for
1989-1992 respectively. However, apart from the 1987 increase which has
been implemented and the 1988 increase which has been agreed upon, actual
annual tariff increases will be based on the results of the proposed annual
reviews (para. 6.09).
l
9.        Boiler Program.  Incremental revenues for JIRAMA are projected at
FMG 0.4 billion in 1988 and FMG 0.8 billion p.a. thereafter until about
1997.



- 86 -
A Ior a os  c A I
ANNEX 6.2
JON  IKIE  11935 Oit            )                                                 .
1  llllawrmnt tow
*                   I~~~ctual         Pra                   Tor,cast
1913    1911    1i6      1916     1 1  IN          is       19      1991    1992
iectv   Sles             12,68   14,265  17,70   1B,711  23,102  27,s611   ,1        ",122    2,23   66,3
bter lmls                    527?    t7       762   1,00    1,170   1,36    1,57       1,610   2,02    236
lotw                    13,212  14,192  16,5,2  19,711   24,52   2,D  3,634   %,92   54,3114   6,732
6mmtl
Law                      M        17      247      269      336     36       455      23      60 
other                    2        169      20      234      2       30       36so     4       4        V
S*btotal                 406      375     "4       5        612     716      623     917   1,09    1,22
!flw
Lake                     43       36       343     401      470     s        632     m        61       %1
r-el                   3,765   4,627   5,251   6,092   6,819   9,31  1,532  11,0    13,2    16,06?
Ote                      911      919   1,1431 ,3 3            1,,61       2,15    2,42     2,       3J2
ubta                    5,102    6,0     6,710   7,630   6,53  11,M    13,269  14,10   16,912  20,219
rulosdw ad Mt*hIkU .
Lawr                       732      690     19   1,16    1,2"    1,156   1,674   1,92    2,211   2,56
Othe                       191      733     659      m        962   1,5    1,214   1,396   1,65    1,0
Subto                    23   1,623   1,s6   1,35   2,146   2,511    2,3            3,1   3,81  1 ,392
haubffce
LAr                        616   I,OI       97S   1,141    1,335   1,562   1,716 2,66    2,37          2,731
Otew                       61?      634     74       870   1,016   1,192   1,370   1,S76   ,1612   2,064
Sutotal                1,133   1,633   1,719   2,011    2,355   2,753   3,166   3,641    4,107   4,615
0 maqtim                   3,671    3,714   4,261    4,619   4,72   8,073   12,832  1?,016   19,606  19,661
otald Euu             11,7?   13,346  11,755  17,018  18,756  25,625  32,179  39,116   45,613  56,346
I0t Ipwati1o Ik_             679      173   1,131      m        93    1,05    1,21?   1,10    1,610   1,651
O natiq in.                2,145   1,119   4,916   3,466   6,721   4,181    6,M         6,225  10,311   20,25
Im-o tqzwpena                267       34       0   2,773        0        0        0       0        0       0
intrst                     5,318   5,356   5,m77      ,45   6,030   7,139   9,341   11,178  12,966  15,16?
IktI T                    (3,40) (3,571)   (657) (4,752)    691  (3,2) (3,066)  2,952) (2,65)  S,0
mm         _       _        _       _       _       _        _       __m    m   m   m



xmg  osm   mm in41MMIsw   mmine goo"". osm   1"n0mm
swNt Awmf oWN lS'sz Win itAl mal 0lWU sWul 5WN   W PM l4^ 1i
viZtI avul am     snei       s  a        rm  are  wein 6U f  't&              Iw
seI  wi'   t'tl  gwti  wit   111 Wi     US'S 668   3asw'                       A
(65!'&l) (W6'61) (ZS9I) (OWII') ( O (WSV 't(61'S  (6'f) (WI)   6 
aWLS  Sm'SS  bi'IS  Iwo   w'%        tW  W    Ir t!w  'f    61!         pionIT RN^
IO  MSI  w'   siv   Si'S  ise tU'   h' w  m%'!             own "s          on
Si9   59    019   55  5               i      Of a6     6 ESf                    A35
S'SEZ t6    US'U 31    l S5  S'If WWl   WS'S  WSu  OW    L8                  I
Oz'S1 st'   SU'le  WI'S  SW'L  WS  ur* 9rs             'tit  r's     ua  PM  on
itW'i 31'1  SU'AI W6'III 5't rli WS'i6  Sff'S   IfI   Ni  M
tw'u  mu6'  U6w9i swi'  sai  uv'S6 LL urn,sw    iw'!  new                   I'IWs
0W61 iOI'I SL'OI 21'$  SIU'S  e's         i      g'I    rnt  'S      U     1 PA
OI'Z  9't   9'1  aWI  Di'l  0          b6 VA   i'! 69'  I1  NIS          "IPR"
     0      5     0      0      0       'SI    Ue    Il'l   L't               A%5
951S Ui 5    L'i tN'  Uwt    't   I'9    WS   WI             '             "TS
O     5      0                                w1l  S  !' I W Art           1P"
4tlt"  P 01TW
= _ ==
_m  mm_    _s  saw" OWN"               asatt*
WVS WsIE i'ESh   E'US U'IE W in     ' sl As1          swis  Wuui S  1PI
!      111    25'1   W;1   Ii'I  ML    56    8   52l   51          
61'S  tIt'I  WIso St             St 
o'   g       go     Siz      S'e    a 1'2  l Sl'l                          r
6I'W   til 1'i Ut'  W9  SWr   SW'u  o't    S    WS                 I     h
69`99 65 6   W1  S'i       5 I     '5 'litl 90 1    51Il   il
'   L16'MS U        ZS' 2I 516 1   W'  N515'  N              SI t 'W S    3    450
Ms'19 0'61  LU'tS 6WM   W09  `61 S5'0I 619    651  0w6
%6WDI WOI 96'6  OW6   90`6  SlS'l  IWO  IL   gw   Wz                       f t  . t
Mr'9l 61611 64'01 06'1   W9111S  UL'llW    '11   WI                  R"1801 I        tt
Sl3)SSU
5161   1661  0661   161   St1  561  9861    61   bI1   561
}|@@|jeJ    (ull IUS   Jlf5IUgi
(tM 4411P SU)
MUM6 01611Ws Q
t'9  XatSNV                                                   I AI
5132 $101014



- 88 -
1A0a6ASCaR                                                         ANNEX 6.4
ENERN I PIWEtI
JIW   - SOMICES 0 USES O RMS 19841992 (BMW     31)
(flU6 mllIoncuret trn)
A ctual              frog                 forecast
1983    1981    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    199            1     1992
Opertng In                            1,819   1,918   3,466    6,721   1,189   6,M       8,226  10,311   20,235
precIation                            3,714   1,281    4,019   1,792   8,073  12,832  17,l08  15,666   19,669
C    frg OprtIons                   5,533   9,199   8,286  11,513  12,257   19,105  25,274  29,917  39,SW
Deduction
Int                                 5,356   5,775   5,445   6,030   7,439   9,341   11,178   12,906  15,167
t/qAity Cowrion                         0       0        0  (3,150) (2,578) (2,550) (2,24) (2,021) (1,953)
mPncipl                             2,481   11,183   7,079   4,226   5,711    7,115   9,106  10,725  14,103
1mev  in  orhing CapItdl             (992) 12,41?   1,281    4,O      1,097   2,203   2,109   1,761    3,193
Otw  Dectio                            (8)    (79)    (26)    (25)    (26)    (28)    (29)    (31)    (32)
6,837  29,297   13,77   11,161   11,633  16,381   20,071   23,420  30,478
oribution to Imn      tn             (1,301) (20,098) (5,493)   S3       624   2,723   S,204    6,49?   S,426
Inutnet Pramy                         1,950   4,2      5,209   6,569  21,4%   17,133  15,948  10,89   27,6%
innts in Sridues                        216      156       0       0        0        0       0        a       0
riming 6"p                            3,470  24,0    10,702   6,218  20,872  15,110  10,744   4,342  18,270
Fimoce   y
Long Ta  wrovrwrp                   2,755   2,349   2,934   3,866  14,990   12,966  11,3M0    7,278  18,635
werdraft                               41    (967) (1,?30)        0     174    (170        0        0        0
Equity Contribution                         22,259   9,090      850   5,000   2,0          0        0        0
Ce_r Contv.Cdclmne Si dy              769   1,206   1,346       70Q     700      700      700    0?0       700
Total                             3,564  24,94?  11,6t0   5,416  20,864   15,492  12,008   7,978   19,335
Cah Incream                              94      40      936    (802)      (8)    382   1,264    3,636   1,065
Ye  ed Cauh                    480      574     613   1,551       748     741   1,123   2,386   6,023   7,007



-89-                        ANNEX 6.5
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Assumptions Used for Financial Analysis
1.        Inflation and Exchange Rates.  The following rates were used:
1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Domestic Inflation(%)      17      17     17     1S      15     1S    15
Intern. Inflation(M),     12      3.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    3,5   3.5
Devaluation of FMG(1)   17.8       17     17     15      15     15    15
2.             Sales and Revenues.   Sales for the 'eriod 1986-1992 are
calculated on the basis of the demand forecast agreed -.ith JIRAMA (Annexes
4.1 through 4.3). Revenues are based on the following average tariff
increases, to become effecetive on January 1 of each year.
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992
Average Tariff Increase(%)   17      9    24    12    12    22
The tariff for the electric boilers has been assumed at FMG 8/kWh
and  has  been  kept  constant  during  the  projection  period.  This
assumption will be reviewed at the time JIRAMA presents the draft
contracts with the potential boiler users (Table 6.3).
3.         Operating Costs.  Constant operating costs have been estimated
based on generating and maintenance requirements. Personnel has been kept
at existing levels. Domestic inflation as indicated above have been applied
to personnel and other expenditures except fuel. Unit fuel costs have been
inflated in line with the devaluation of the FMG.
4.           Assets and Depreciation.   Pending the results of the asset
revaluation study (para. 5.07 (d)), the projections assume two adjustments
of the asset base, both taking effect from 1987.  The first one is a 20%
across the board reduction, reflecting current estimates of obsolete,
non-productive assets. The second adjustment concerns JIRAMA's investments
in the Andekaleka and Namorona hydro projects both of which are currently
only partially performing assets with low capacity utilixation.   These
assets are temporarily adjusted downward in line with their ratio of
capacity utilixation, and then increased annually in line with projected
utilization.     The  two  asset  adjustments  are  accounted  for  as
"Non-Performing Assets' in' JIRAMA's balance sheet.    Fixed assets are



- 9o -
-~ 90Annex 6.5
Page 2 of 2
revalued in line with domestic inflation and depreciated over 40 years
(2.5%) except for vehicles and capital spares which are depreciated ever 5
years (20%) and 2 years (50%) respectively.  The average gestation period
for fixed assets has been assumed at 1.25 years; accordingly, 75X of new
investments go directly into the fixeu asset base and 25% into work in
progress from where they exit into the asset base one year later. Studies
are  entered under  deferred  assets.    They  are not  revalued  and are
depreciated over 5 years (20%).
5.         Cash, Accounts Receivable and Payable.  Operating cash require-
ments have been estimated at 15 days of cash operating expenses. Annual
cash positions above that level are deemed to be surplus cash and counted
against necessary tariff increases. Accounts receivable, after the restruc-
turing, are assumed to represent 90 days of electricity sales.  Accounts
payable are similarly reduced to 105 days in 1987 and thereafter to 90 days
equivalent of non-payroll cash operating expenditures.
6.         Debt Service.  Service on existing debt is calculated on a loan
by loan basis, with JIRAMA carrying the foreign exchange risk , and certain
Andekaleka and Namorona loans being repaid in line with the utilization
rate of those assets. Capital contributions matching the interest on the
non-utilized portion of Andekaleka and Namorona are shown in the funds flow
statement, further reducing JIRAMA's effective debt service. New loans to
finance the portion of projected investments not funded by JIRAMA's
internal cash generation are assumed to be' available as needed at 8%
interest and 20 years maturity including 5 years grace. The consolidation
of the bank overdraft is assumed at 15.5% interest over a five year
period.
7.          Investment Program. Projected investment levels are identical
with the agreed reference program (RIP) presented in Annex 5.1.   It is
assumed that the required funds will be made available from donors during
the period even if IDA and other cofinancing falls short of this target
through the Energy I Project.
8.         Divestiture of Subsidiaries and Associated Operations.  JIRAMA
values these activities at FMG 2.773 billion in its balance sheet. What
sales price they might fetch is unclear, also what remuneration JIRAMA
might receive if an asset transfer to FNI took place. For the projections
it has been assumed that the sales price would be zero and that the
transaction would be recorded as an non-operational loss.



- 91-                         ANNEX 6.6
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Phasing of IDA Credit
In order to assure timely determination and implementation of
crucial financial measures required to maintain JIRAMA's financial
viability, it is proposed to have the project implemented in two phases.
The first phase is, by definition, all those goods and services not
included  in Phase, II.   Phase II components include only goods;  all
consultant services are included in the first phase. Disbursement in the
first phase can take place at any time after credit effectiveness.   The
procurement of goods included in Phase II of the project will be subject to
meeting the specified conditions of disbursement (para. 8.07).  Phase II
Investments will have a total val.ue of US$10 million. The phasing of the
project is defined in the following tables.   All costs are the foreign
exchange requirements for the components concerned, including contingencies
but excluding duties and taxes.



- 92 -
ANNEX 6.6
Page 2 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Phasing of IDA Madagascar Energy I Project
(US$ tbousands:   foreign exchange requirements only)
RIP                       IDA
Allocation          Phase I    Phase II
A: POWER SUBSECTOR COMPONENTS
1. Hydropower Rehabilitation
Essential Repairs
Mandraka Rehabilitation            2806               2806              0
Ma-.',Iana Rehabilitation           440                440
Sp:-- Parts - General               347                182
Efficiency Improvemeats              800                  0            800
Total                            4393               3428            800
2. Diesel Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation & Spares            8182                300           3000
Mobile Maintenance                 2200                  0           2200
Total                           10382                300           5200
3. Electric Boilers                     30G                300              0
(transmission/distribution
& consultants)
4. Distribution
Pilot Project                       214                214              0
Rehabilitation Material            3137                109           1300
New Connections                    9572                  0           1400
Total                          12923                323           2700
5. Support Services
Comuunications                     2000                  0              0
Meter Laboratory                    150                150              0
Computers & Services                905                605            300
Total                           3055                755            300
6. Vehicles                            1750                750           1000
7. Power Sector Institution Building
Technical Asst. Planning           1025               1025
8. Studies
Hydropower Feasibility Study        150                150
Least Cost Expansion Plan           897                897
Total                         1047               1047             0
POWER SUBSECTOR SUBTOTAL                                  7928          10000
IDA Financing of RIP                                                    17928



93             ~             ANNEX 6.6
Page 3 of 3
Total              IDA
Required           Energy Sector
Energy             Financing
Sector             (Funding to only
Investments        in Phase I)
B: ENERGY SECTOR COMPONENTS
1. Energy Planning Support
Energy Planning Administration     1406               1406
Household Energy Planning          1969               1669
Total                            3375               3075
2. Energy Production Components
Charcoal                          1000               1000
Rice Husk Briquettes               252                252
Total                         1252               1252
3. Energy Sector Studies
Industrial Energy Audit It         600               300
Lac Aloatra Region Study           300                300
Total                          900               600
TOTAL ENERGY COMPONENTS               5527               4927
C: IDA Project Prepn. Facility         870               870
Additional Phase I Funding
Electeic Boilers
(by private enterprises)                                 1275
Summary                             Phase I            Phase II
Power Subsector                       7928              10000
Energy Sector                         4927
Electric Boilers                      1275
Project Preparation Facility           870
Total Financing by Phase           15000              10000
OVERALL IDA FINANCING                                   25000



- 94 -                       ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Economic Cost of Electricity and Economic Rate of Return
on Power Sector Investment Program
A. ECONOMIC COST OF ELECTRICITY
1.          Electricity tariffs should be set at levels which adequately
reflect the long run marginal cost (LRMC) of supply to consumers. In or'.r
to calculate the LRMC for the JIRAMA power system, a least cost expansion
plan (LCEP) would have to have been completed. As a LCEP is not available,
the average incremental cost (AIC) of supply has been computed as an
approximation of the LRMC.   The AIC calculation is based on the agreed
reference expansion plan (RIP) and the respective incremental operating
costs and projected sales enabled by these investments over a period of 25
years. A separate AIC has been estimated for the ICS as well as for the
overall power system. However, in this case even the AIC is not a valuable
indication of marginal costs for tariff construction and system planning,
due to huge surpluses of energy and capacity. More valuable LRMC estimates
will result from the least cost expansion planning studies supported by the
project.
Definitions and Methodology
2.         The AIC for the entire JIRAMA system represents an average value
of the AICs for all the sub-systems comprising public power supply.  The
JIRAMA power system is dominated by the ICS which has almost entirely
hydropower generation, while the smaller external zones are eupplied for
the most part by diesel generation utilizing heavy fuel oil, and the small
isolated supply zones utilize diesel-fueled diesel generators. Costs vary
considerably between these systems, hence the estimated overall AIC does
not approximate the AIC of any particular sub-system.
3.           The AIC is essentially the levelized annual cost of supply
computed as the ratio of.the present value incremental costs to the present
value of incremental sales.  The cost stream includes capital, operating,
fuel and lubricating oil, and customer charges and administration costs,
all in economic terms.
Data and Assumptions
4.          The main data and detailed assumptions on economic prices and
other parameters are provided in Table 7.1.1.  Key underlying assumptions
are as follows:
i)    The  shadow  value  of  foreign  exchange  which  is  used  as  a
multiplier for all foreign components or estimated foreign
content is 1.3.
ii)   Prices are those as of January 1987.



- 95 -                      ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 3
iii) The base case discount rate is 12%.
iv)   Demand forecasts used are those provided in Annexes 4.2 and 4.3.
v)    Rate of exchange applied is 630 FMG/US$.
Results
5.            The AICs estimated by the above methodology are as follows:
US cents/kWh        FMG/kWh
(122 discount rate)
Overall Power System              5.7               36.0
Interconnected System             3.8               23.8
6.            The lower cost of supply in the ICS compared with the overall
system is due largely to the availability of hydropower cocsiderably in
excess of demand. Furthermore, sales in the ICS are anticipated to increase
by about 40X as of the year 1988 with the commissioning of five electric
boilers to use this surplus hydroelectric energy and capacity which will be
available perha.s through 2000 (with some suppleuental diesel generation at
peak hours after 1996).
B. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF POWER SECTOR EXPANSION PLAN
Definition and Methodolo
7.            The calculation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is based
on the IDA-appraised reference investment program (RIP) for the period
1987-1992, inclusive. The proposed IDA project would finance the RIP with
the exception oa the 138 kV ring for Antananarivo already committed and
financed, and the proposed 13-15 MW Aibodiroka hydropower plant. It is not
useful therefore to calculate a separate ERR for the proposed project and
the RIP. Instead the ERR calculated is for the RIP without Ambodiroka for
which only the first year of construction is envisaged in 1992. A second
ERR calculation has been made for the ICS only separating out, in the same
manner as for the AIC calculations, ICS-related costs and benefits.
8.               'The tariff revenues projected are taken as a proxy for
economic benefits, although this is conservative assumption given that i)
this provides no estimation of the upper limit of the consumer's willing-
ness to pay and, ii) the economic benefits to flow from the electric boiler
program will almost certainly exceed those implied by tariff revenue (see
Annex 7.3).
9.        Details of the parameters chosen for the analysis are provided in
Table 7.1.2, and some of the key assumptions are listed in para. 4. above.
In addition, tariff revenue was based on projected tariffs deflated by 10X,
the estimated average annual rate of inflation.



-96 -                       ANNE  7.1
Page 3 of 3
Results
10.           The ERRs estimated in accordance with this methodology are as
follows:
Overall Power System:              33%
Interconnected  System:            46%
The results show that with tariff increases projected there is an unwsually
high economlc rate of return on investment in all or parts of the JIRANA
power system. This difference from the financial rate of return for the
power company as a whole is largely the result of the very high taxes,
duties and SOLIMA's own margins for tuel, lubricating oil and consumables,
as well as the duties and taxes on imported equipment and materials. The
economic opportunity cost for fuel oil is also very low compared to the
tinancial price without duties and taxes as the FOB price for re-export is
only about US$50/tonne. Fuel oil is a major component of JIRAMA's cost of
production.



MADAGASCAR
ENFRGY I PROJECT
Table 7.1.1: OVERALL JIRAMA POWER SYSTEM AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST AND PROJECT RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
PROJECTED REVENUE ('000 USD)                  Total
Overall      Operating 6    Customer &       Fuel      Total     Incremental  General   Electric  Tot. Rev.                   Revenue
Year          Investment    Maintenance   Administration      &        Costs       sales       Revenue     Boller   Colstant     NET CASE    Current
No.   Year   Program !      Expenditure       Costs          011   '000 dollars     MWh                   Revenue     Terms        FLOW        Terms
1    1987    15448.0        3613.8           149.3      -451.9    18759.2       23522       8400.0                           -10359.2       8400.0
2    1988     7361.7        6694.8           277.8        -27.3    14307.0    117632        13500.0      938.1    11932.3    -2374.7        14438.1
3    1989     8581.7        5284.1           444.4        546.6    14836.8     153862       15900.0     1065.1    12746.1    -2110.6        16965.1
4    1990     7160.0        7883.4           621.4        951.9   16616.7    186742         24230.0     1128.6   17320.2        703.6       25358.6
5    1991     4125.7        8291.4           790.0       1290.3    14497.4     221422       30475.0    1231.7    19687.4       5190.0       31706.7
6    1992                   1995.8           911.6       1644.4    4551.7    240572         37103.0    1231.7    21639.0    17087.2         38334.7
7    193      1235.0        1995.8           91146       1644.4     5786.7     240572       37103.0     1231.7    19671.8     13885.1       38334.7
8    1994        0.0        1"5.8        -  911.6        1644.4     4551.7     240572       37103.0     1231.7   17883.4    13331.7         38334.7
9    1995     1868.5        1995.8           911.6       1644.4    6420.2    240572         37103.0    1231.7    16257.7       9837.4       38,34.7
10    1996     1969.9        1995.8          911.6        1644.4    6521.6    240572        37103.0    1231.7    14779.7        8258.1      38334.7
11    1997                   1995.8           911.6       1644.4     4551.7     240572       37103.0     1231.7    13436.1      8884.4      38334.7
12    1998                   1995.8          911.6        1644.4    4551.7    240572         37103.0    1231.7    12214.6       7662.9       38334.7
13    199                    1995.8          911.6        1644.4     4551.7     240572      37103.0      1231.7    11104.2      6552.5      38334.7
14    2000     1235.0         " 1995.8       911.6        1644.4    5786.7    240572         37103.0    1231.7   10094.7        4308.0       38334.7
15    2001        0.0        1995.8          911.9        1644.4     4552.1     143622       37316.0                8933.1      4381.1      37316.0
16    2002     1868.5        1995.8          944.3        1644.4    6452.9      148721       37530.2                8167.7      1714.7       37530.2
17    2003     1969.9        1995.8           977.8       1644.4     6587.8     154000      37745.6                 7467.8       679.9       37745.6
18    2004                   1"5.8           1012.5       1644.4     4652.7     159467      37962.2                 6827.8      2175.2      37962.2
19    2005                   1995.8          1048.4       1644.4     4688.6     165128      38180.2                 6242.8      1554.2      38180.2
20    2006                   1995.8          1085.7       1644.4    4725.8    170"0          38399.3                5707.8       982.0       38399.3
21    2007     1235.0        1995.8          1124.2       1644.4     5999.4     177060       38619.7                5218.7      -780.7       38619.7
22    2008        0.0        1995.8          1164.1       1644.4    4804.3    183346         38841.4                4171.5       -32.8       38841.4
23    2009     1868.5        1995.8          1205.4       1644.4     6714.1     189855       39064.3                4362.6    -2351.5        39064.3
24    2010     1969.9       m1.8             1248.2       1644.4     6858.3    196595        39288.6                3988.8    -2869.5        39288.6
25    2011    -4875.6        1995.8          1292.5       1644.4     - 57.1    203574        39514.1                3647.0      3589.9       39514.1
Present Value of Costs                                 79783.0  1396995.3        Economic Rate of Return          32.962
Average Incremental Cost of Electricity                             $0.057/kwh
or       36.0 P111'kWh
a/ Progtas is the Reference Investment Program (RIP) (see parse. 5.01-5.02).
bl As vehicle Investment life is shorter than analysis time frame, equivalent investment is every 7 years.
Residual values are calculated for plant still In operation at the end of period of analysis.
ASSUMPTIONS
Discount Rate              12.0X a2
Marginal Customer & Administration Cost is two-thirds of 1985      3.5 FMG/kWb average                                                                  x
xchange .Rate             630.0 FIIG/USO
NOTES:                                                                                                                                                  _
1.  In the ICS. It is assumed that at end of electric boiler life, sales drop accordingly and then recover gradually to utilize the energy
previously applied to the boilers. Revenue from these ales Is low, reflecting the off-peak nature of the energy consumptton lplied.
2. Operatioa and Maintenance charges in the first five years include the special catch-up program of part replacement and equipment repair
that would be funded by the proposed project.
3. The customer administration charges of the boiler program are assumed to be negligible as they represent only five customers.



MADAGASCAR
ENeRGY I PROJECT
Table 7.1.2:  JXRAM INTERCONNECTED POWER SYSTEM AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS
PROJECTED REVENUE ('OuO USD)                       Total
Investment       Operat 1g R   Customer R        Fuel       Total       Incremental  Geaeral    Electrfc   Tot. Rev.                    Revenue
Year                 in           Maintenance  Administration    &           Costs          sales       Sales       Boiler    Constant      NEI CASH    Current
No.   Year    JIRAMA ICS !/    Expenditures         Costs          Oil   '000 dollars        MWh       Revenue    Revenue       Terms         FLOW        Terms
1   1987        589,.6             1709.8          111.7      222.6         7937.6         17590      5320.0                   4836.4      -3101.2       5320.0
2   1988        6712.9             3369.1          191.7      222.6        10496.2        104070      7279.4      938.1        6791.3      -3705.0       8217.5
3   1989        5663.5             2738.9          273.4        55.6        6731.5        126940      9733.3     1065.1        8113.0       -618.5      10798.4
4   1990        4404.6             4138.7          404.2       74.1         9021.6        152540    14703.0       1128.6      10813.2       1791.6      15831.6
5   1991        2600.9             4388.8          534.2       74.1         7596.0        181140    18850.0       1231.7      12469.2       4671.2      20081.7
6   1992                           1241.0          615.4       74.1         1930.5        193930    23041.3       1231.7      13701.5      11771.0      24273.0
7   1993         814.4             1241.0          615.4       74.1         2744.9        193930    23041.3      1231.7       12455.9       9711.0      24273.0
8   1994           0.0             1241.0          615.4        74.1        1930.5        193930    23041.3       1231.7      11323.6       9393.1      24273.0
9   199S        1232.3             1241.0          615.4        74.1        3162.8        193930    23041.3       1231.7      10294.1       7131.4      24273.0
10   1996        1853.7             1241.0          615.4       74.1         3784.2        193930    23041.3       1231.7       9358.3       5574.1      24273.0
11   1997                           1241.0          615.4       74.1         1930.5        193930    23041.3      1231.7        8507.6       6577.1      24273.*4
12   1998                           1241.0          615.4       74.1         1930.5        193930    23041.3       1231.7       7734.1       5803.7      24273.0
13   1999                           1241.0          615.4        74.1        1930.5        193930    23041.3       1231.7       7031.0       5100.6      24273.0
14   2000         814.4  /          1241.0          615.4       74.1         2744.9        193930    23041.3       1231.7       6391.9       3647.0      24273.0
15   2001           0.0             1241.0          615.7        74.1        1930.8         96980    23041.3                    5515.9       3585.1      23041.3
16   2002        1232.3             1241.0          646.5       74.1         3193.9        101829    23271.7                    5014.5       1870.7      23271.7
17   2003        1853.7             1241.0          678.9       74.1         3847.6        106920    23504.4                    4558.6        802.6      23504.4
18   2004                           1241.0          712.8       74.1         2027.9        112266    23739.5                    4144.2       2241.9      23739.5
19   2005                           1241.0          748.4        74.1        2063.5        117880    23976.9                    3767.4       18S6.9      23976.9
20   2006                           1241.0          785.9        74.1        2100.9        123774    24216.6                    3424.9       1498.7      24216.6
21   2007         814.4             1241.0          825.2        74.1        2954.6        129962    24458.8                    3113.6        350.5      24458.8
22   2008           0.0             1241.0          866.4        74.1        2181.5        136461    24703.4                    2830.5        853.2      24703.4
23   2009        1232.3             1241.0          919.7       74.1         3457.1        143284    24950.4                    2573.2       -670.7      24950.4
24   2010        1853.7             1241.0          955.2        74.1        4124.0        150448    2519".9                    2339.3      -1565.5      25199.9
25   2011       -2431.0             1241.0         1003.0        74.1        -113.0        157970    25451.9                    2126.6       2462.1      25451.9
Present Value of Costa       42256.2    1119175.9              Economlc RAte of Return       46.21S
Avorage lncresotatl Cost of Ulectricity                $0.038/k1h
or         23.8 MIWkhI
Pcogram  to the Referene Investment Program (RIP) (see parse. 5.01-5.02).
Because vehicle life 1s atorter tban tlme frme of analysis eequivalent rdeivestment
is ade every 7 years. Resldual valoes are calculated for plant still In operation.
Dscount ate                  12.0S
Marginal Custoer 4 Admnlistration Cost Is two-thirds of 1985                 4.0 PM/kVh average
_achwe lkate assumed is 630.0 116/116
mom
1.  ln the ICS, It Is assued that at end of electric boiler life, sales drop accordingly and then recover gradually -o utilize the energy
pteviously applled to the boilers. Revenue from these sales Is low, reflecting the off-peak nature :f the energy conswption  implied.
2.  Opratilon and Maintenance charges in the first five years include the special catch-up program of part replacement w'd equlpment repair
that would be funded by the proposed project.
3. The customer adainistration charges of the boiler program ere assumed to be negligible as they represent only five customers.



ANNEX 7.2
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Volob6 Hydropower Generating Plant
Methodology
1.             The economic viability of rehabilitation of the cyclone- and
flood-damaged Volobe bydropower plant and related infrastructure rests on
the comparative economy of meeting the Toamasina regional demand from,
essentially, one of two options:  Volobe rehabilitated, or diesel genera-
tion using plant already available in the Tamatave II and III power
stations, both supplemented with new diesel plant as required in the longer
term.   Another technically feasible option of interconnection by 138 kV
transmission line with the ICS can be ruled out readily by its cost ( US$12
million), time of construction (about 3 years), and the need for
substantial diesel generation during peak hours from early to mid-1990s .o
meet peak demand in the ICS if Toamasina wee interconnected. Finally, the
need for about US$10 million in foreign exchange financing, compared with
US$4 million for Volobe rehabilitation, represents a major constraint in
its own right.   The precise details of the least cost approach to the
rehabilitation of the Volob6 hydropower plant are still being studied so
this analysis assumes that the plant will operate in the future at the
maximum of its previous installed capacity and electricity production
potential.   Estimates of the cost of rehabilitation have been made by
consultants and JIRAMA during project appraisal. The analysis compares the
present value of costs of these two options and computes the crossover
discount rate, i.e. the rate at which the present value of costs of both
options would be equal.
Data and Assumptions
2.                The detailed assumptions for the analysis are listed as
footnotes to Table 7.2.1. The load forecast for Toamasina is based on IDA
projections made during project appraisal which result in estimated growth
in energy and capacity demand of 2.6% and 2.5% average per annum, respec-
tively, during the period 1987-2015 - the period adopted for the economic
and financial analysis.   The detailed load forecast is available from
project files.   The base case presented in Table 7.2.1 is the economic
analysis made with the follhwing key underlying assumptions:
the shadow value of foreign exchange is 1.3 and is applied to all
imported equipment, materials and services, as well as to the
foreign content of locally procured goods and services.
ii)   the residual value of the Sulzer 8 MW diesel that would be
released  frow  service  with  the  rehabilitation  of  Volobe
hydropower station is US$3 million.
iii)  the value of fuel oil used in the Tamatave III power station is
the FOB value of fuel oil exported from Toamasina under the
present refinery operation mode, plus the internal transportation



- 100 -                     ANNEX 7.2
Page 2 of 2
and handling charges to deliver the product to the diesel
generating station.
iv)   the exchange rate applied is 630 FMG/US$.
Results
3.        The results of the comparative economic analysis are as follows:
NPV of Costs
(millon US$)
Economic Analysis    Financial Analysis
Volob6 Rehabilitation              3.45                 4.29
All diesel generation              6.32                10.46
Crossover Discount Rate           22.9%                35.1%
Rehabilitation of the Volobe hydropower plant is clearly warranted despite
the low economic opportunity cost of fuel oil locally produced and the sunk
cost of major diesel generating plant already in place and operational.



QER I PAW
M1. 7.2.1: 9D8 11N             _mAU     MrI RA8l!TQI iO41. *88SI
R)*o Not Diinel <1ty uscty Cvty  Pmt  Dima   .1  V.1d.  b'lo                        V*oIo i                      weed o1*1   SWld   21a   A1 0a  Dif 
Yew   _ WAnd             &wly         d  Ptet.arR hIlVen   M4   CAF*tY          ea        cita10ts   t-            0(bts D ). (36 Obt   atd 011 com   Vahm    Mac*   masi  in  nto of
G    NW           Gab   Gb          uf   w    Nm                                                          Wm    *   O U             *   M    MG   MG   mc  A1tteAt
1917   24.91    5.35       O.OD    24.91   20.80    0.00    0.00   20D.    O.0O    0.00    3.60    2.72    o.0O    0.00    0.15    0 2    0.52    0.43             3.26    0.54   -2.72
18   21.83    5.74        15.OD    11.83   2D.80    8.0    0.00  1L2.O    0.00   0O.O    2.40    1.81    o.00    0.0o    0.16   0.13    0.56    0.46               2.40    0.59   -1.8L
19S9   29.36    6.27      26.43     2.94   19.56    0.OD    0.00   19.56    0.00    0.00                   0.15    0.12    0.18    0.14    0.61    0.0             0.19    0.o4    0.45
199    3L64    6.73      2B.48     3.16   19.56    1.40    O.OD   U1.16    O.OD    0.00                   0.15    0.12    0.19    0.15    0.66    0.54    3.0D   -3.71    0.69    4.40
1991   32.90    7.01      29.61     3.3    18.16    0.00   .OOD   186    0.00 .ooD                         0.15    0.12    0.20    0.15    0.69    0.56            0.19    0.72    0.52
1992   33.91    7.21      30.52     3.39   18.6    0.00    0.00   18.16    0.00    0.00                    0.15    0.12    0.20    0.16    0.71    0.58            0.2D    0.74    0.54
13   35.2      7.48       31.69     3.52   116    0.00    O.OD   18.16    o.0    0.0o                      0.15    0.12    0.21   '.17    0.74    0.60             0.2    0.77    0.57
1994   35.71    7.58      32.14     3.57   1816    .W0    0.00   18.16    .0OD    0.OD                     0.15    0.12    0.21    0.17    0.75    0.61            0.20    0.78    0.58
1995   36.22    7.68      32.60     3.62   18.16    o.00    0.00   18.16    O.OD    0.00                   0.15    0.12    0.22    0.17    0.76    0.62            o.20    0.79    0.59
1996   36.75    7.78      33.0B     3.66   18.6    0.00    0.00 o   186    0.00    0.0o                    0.15    0.12   0.22    0.17    0.77    0.63             0.20    0.80    0.60
1997   37.30    7.89      33.57     3.73   1816    1.40    0.00   16.76    1.2D    0.95                    0.15    0.12    0.22-  0.17    0.78    0.64             0.2D    1.76    1.56
1998   37.87    8.01      34.08    3.79   16.76    1.40    2.O0   1.36    0.OD    .0OD                     0.15    0.12    0.23    0.18    0.79    0.65            0.21    0.83    0.62
1999   3.45    8.12       34.61     3.85   1746    o.00    o.0o   17.36    o.00 o.0D                       0.15    0.12    0.23    0.1L   o0.8    0.66             0.21    0.84    0.63
2000   39.05    8.24      35.15     3.91   17.36    O.OD    0.00   17.36    0.90    O.OD                   0.15   0.12    0.23    0.18   0.82    0.67              0.21    0.85    0.64
2001   39.68    8.37      35.71     3.97   17.36    O.     O.OD   17.36    O.0    0.0o                     0.15    0.12    0.24    0.19    0.83    0.68            0.21   0.87    0.66
2002   40.32    8.49      38.70     162   17.36    0.00    0.OD   17.36   o0sD    0.00                     0.15    012    0.24    0.19    0.84    0.69             0.16    08    0.72
2003   40.99    8.63      3B.70     2.29   17.36    O.0    0.00   17.36    o.00    0.0                     0.L5   0.12    0.25   O0.9    0.86    0.70              0.17 0D9    OM72
2004   41.67    8.76      3.70      2.97   17.36    O.OD    o0.0    17.36    .0OD    O.00                  0.15    0.12    0.25    0.20    087    0.71             0.19    0.91    0.72
2W5   42.38    8.91       38.70     3.68   17.36    o.0o    0.00   17.36    0.0o    O.OD                   0. L5   0.2    0.25    0.20    0.9    0.73              0.20    0.92    0.72
m6   43.12    9.05        3B.70     4.2   17.36    o0.0    0.00   17.36    0.00    O.00                    0.15    0.12    0.26    0.20    0.90    0.74           aOz      0.94    o.n
20D7   43.8    9.20       38.70     5.18   17.36    0.00    0.0o    V.36    1.20    0.95                   0.15    0.12    0.26    0.21    0.92    0.75            0.24    1.91    L67
2008   44.66    9.36      38.70     5.96   17.36    0.00    2.00D   p.36    O.0 O.0o                       0.15    0.12    0.27    0.21    0.93    0.76            o.25    0.97   o0n
209   45.47    9.32       38.70     6.77   19.36    0.00    O.OD   119.36   o.0o    0.00                   0.15    0.12    0.27    0.21    0.95    0.78            0.27    0.99    0.72
2010   4.31    9.69       3.70      7.61   19.36    o.0D   o.0o  1W.36    0.00    O.O0                     0.15    0.12   0.28    0.22    0.97    0.79             0.29    1.01    0.72
2011   47.18    9.86      38.70     848   19.36    o.0o    O.OD   19.36    O.OD    O.OD                    0.1S    0.12    0.2    0.22    0.99    0.81             0.31    1.03    0.72
2D02   48.07   10.0o      38.70     9.37   19.36    O.OD    o.00   19.36    O.OD    0.0D                   0.15    0.12    0.29    0.23    1.01    0.82            0.33    1.08    0.72
2013   49.00   10.22      38.7D    130   19.36    0.o0  o.W0   19.36    o.O0    0.00                       0.15    0.12    0.29    0.23    1.02    0.8             0.35    L07    0.72
2014   49.96   10.41      38.70    11.2    19.36    o.00   OD   19.36    0.00    O.OD                     0.15    0.12    0.30    0.23    1.04    0.86            0.37    1.09   o0n
2DIS   50.95   10.61      3B.70    125   19.36    0.00    0.00   19.36    0.00   .OOD                      0.15    0.12    0.31    0.24    1.07    0.87    -0.57  -4.81    1.11    5.92
NW= Diesl Semwm Is uk ftm .p8uth 7 lB 4w 2 99W wgdts. tAitt.mal
aild &m1Gy to mmS*.en co=    cqmadty .Lq to _aat wit.                                                                         PR. V&1m  ci o ts         3.45    6.32
-   ~~~~cam~~~~O 06. aUt P                                                             22.92X
w mt    nte                  630.00  WGlWD                      maw   PAte                             12.005
=ufl of forip ambm             1.3D                              hA  -       gw 4ly                    '..OD   Oh
vcac  Q hintI                                                         fram Val" o   tAubWUteI
-cm4ta  C    fi mawmai                6.00Q.111llian US&Uam             Win PO    &*ply 6 rouol
vc  ftjm ci a.Amtt  in '87              .OwO                            afte aftelltstiin                      25.80   Gb
apcIaa fceladuif                      0.66
miI 'alm ci Val"  (5r life)          4.OD3 MI1m US)                    Di.) bup M_ll to twoo to the catt oif 10 cf th systm  m     d
-*Nal 09t das Val"                   150.00 tbao d USD                  up to th rer in Adkh dm     rce=ds 9DX of Vo6icaro  em           t
(43 Ob after r lietim) au m dkmal gwAstwl wwovi& an  *,  in
11a  Gsm                                                                 mm af thbsl,1
-aqmItel <s1c |Im  |1 1km.).   6XwO00 US)/W
-0   WA for =dim  *Pd d-n             6.00 UNW4b                        "        POW 9 jr lt hT 1Al   In Tass.& 96      lbdt         Plat _itaJId In 1tm  tn  
-Fc  fee amu,tic  (9m.)              210.00D  pl
-huuICMq aol CM*Icm                  450.00 iWb/lIta                      Plat    lB    Tr.m Yr.bt'd                      Plat    NB    Yr.m  Yr.td                                                  x
-Ik  mt of - _1.      ls8t&    St.    80w.  m tVame
-BM=c CWt - ROL Oase aX, ....t.....6..  Q=G UDtwt 
*_mPia       1at      i PlIt          85.0C                               118      1.40    1971    1990                l m         1.52    1931  am
-F_dp (at fts  wan 0                  MDO                                           1.40    1973   1992                             1.52    1931  am                                               -
-c    ost oC Tue 011          L        .OD t3V1tre                                 D8.0    1984   2MOB                              1.52    1931  am
-FntIcm at Fel 011  i                 O.90                                          8.0D    1984  2D                                2.20    1971  cm
-fatpwtim of Oman  at                 0.10
_uId.l Vm of Thm  ia  M Die).   3.0D 1M m 1D at  A 1988                                                                 Pus ap   6.76



- 102 -
ANNEX 7.3
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Antananarivo Region
Electric Boiler Program
Basis of the Atlalysis
1.         Energy and power from hydropower plant in the ICS will exceed
normal demand through the year 2000 if no special additional demand
eventuates.    Consultants  to JIRAMA,  EDP  International,  identified  an
electric boiler program which could use this energy and not make dem ,ads
significantly exceeding the peak capacity of existing hydropower during the
anticipated life of the electric boilers:  10 years.   The enterprises
concerned are financially sound with long term prospects for stability and
growth.    They  include  PAPMAD,  a  paper  products  company,  Savonnerie
Tropicale, a soap manufacturer, SOMACOU, a textile plant, and the Hilton
Hotel.  In most cases the enterprises would have to replace their heat and
steam raising facilities during the life of the proposed boiler
electrification program.   The electric boiler program economic viability
depends on the relative economic costs of continued use of the present fuel
or fuel mix ( fuel oil, diesel oil or fuelwood), plus the need for renewal
of existing facilities,  versus the cost of electric boiler plant and
electrical energy.  Two scenarios of demand for electricity for heat and
steam production are compared: business as usual - which is the base case -
and planned recovery of demand representing previously experienced or truly
expanded levels of industrial or commercial activity.   The economy of
Madagascar is depressed at present with industrial plant utilization at
record low levels, hence the base case, which assuwmes no recovery over the
life of the electric boiler pr'gram is quite pessimistic.
2.         An economic and a financial rate of return has been calculated
for each boiler project based on the net cash flow between the initial cost
of the electric boiler installation and the ongoing costs of oil or
fuelwood and possible thermal boiler replacement.   Then, the levelized
annual cost of electricity per kWh utilized has been derived by dividing
the present value of costs for the electric boiler program by the present
value of electrical energy consumed.  Finally, to test the resilience of
the program, an estimate is made of the increase in the capital cost of
electric boilers, or the decrease in the cost of energy presently utilized,
that can be tolerated before the project ERR falls below the discount rate,
or the opportunity cost of capital locally. This latter is precented as a
switching value analysis.
Data and Assumptions
2.             An example of the economic analysis performed on the boiler
program is provided in Table 7.3.1. With it are footnotes which quantify
assumptions made in the analysis.   The key assumptions in the economic
analysis are:



- 103 -
ANNEX 7.3
Page 2 of 2
i)    the short run marginal cost of electrical energy is zero during
the period 1988-1997.
il)    fuel oil and diesel oil costs are constant during this period and
are based on present border prices (see Table 7.3.1).
tit) the economic cost of fuelvood is the cost of replacement in
fuelvood plantations plus the present handling, transport and
marketing margins.
iv)   a shadow value of foreign exchange of 1.3 is applied to all
foreign qontent in the project.
v)    operation and maintenance charges are the same in both thermal
and electric boiler options; an assumption which favors the
thermal option.
Results
3.        Results of the analysis are as follows (including the Military
Hospital as a fifth candidate enterprise):
i)    as the economlc and financial rate of return to the program as a
whole:
Rate of Return
Economic Financial
Case A: No Recovery in Industrial Production         49%        612
Case B: Forecast Recovery                            63%       107S
ii)   In terms of the robustness of individual sub-projects through a
switching value analysis for key cost factors:
Case A:               Capital Cost of Equipment        Price of Energy
(Wood &/or Oil)
required 2 increase            required % decrease
PAPMAD                        200                           -68
Savonnerie Tropicale           59                          -45
SOMACOU                      455                           -75
Hilton Hotel                   35                           -25
All sub-projects are able to tolerate significant unfavorable change In key
cost variables before becoming economically unattractive.



KADAGASCAR
ENEaCY I PROJECT
Table 7.3.1: ELECTRIC BOILER F-ROGRAM: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
XAIPLE OF INDIVIDUAL BOILER ANALYSES (Million FPM)
1987     1988     1989      1990      1991      1992     1993     1994      1"9S     1996     I997
PAPMAD (paper manufacturing company)
Costs
Electric Boiler Installation          585.0
JIRANA NetWork ReinforceMent           41.0
UEectricity (SRMC of Rydro-energy)      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Costs                             626.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Benefits: Case A - No Recovery or Growth
Forecast Electricity Uset CNh                    40.4     40.4     40.4       40.4     40.4      40.4     40.4     40.4      40.4     40.4
Savings oa Fuel
Wood                                          240.1    240.1    240.1      240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1
Fuel 01i                                       67.3     67.3     67.3       67.3     67.3      67.3     67.3     67.3      67.3     67.3
Avoided Capital Costs
Boiler Repairs                       76.1
Boiler Replacement
Total Benefits                           76.1    307.4    307.4    307.4       307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4
Benfits: Case B - Anticipated Recovery and Planned Growth
Forecast Electricity Use: CGh                    45.0     55.0     60.0       65.0     68.1      68.1     68.1     68.1      68.1     68.1
Savings on Fuel
Wood                                          240.1    240.1    240.1      240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1    240.1
Fuel Oil                                      155.0    186.0    232.5      310.0    310.0    310.0    310.0    310.0    310.0    310.0               _
Avoided Capital Costs
Repairs                              76.1
Boiler Replacement
Total Benefits                            76.1    395.1    426.1    472.6      550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1
Net Benefits Stream  Case A            -549.9    307.4    307.4    307.4       307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4    307.4
Net Benfits Streass Case"              -549.9    395.1    426.1    472.6       550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1    550.1
Economic Rate of Return: Case A          55.22
Economic Rate of Return: Case B          79.7X
Ecoaomic Cost of Electricity Utilized
(1) Present Value of Coats: Case A                558.9
(2) Present Value of Costa: Case 3                558.9
(3) Present Value of Consumption: Case A          228.2
(4) Present Value of Consumption: Case B          346.0
(5) Levelized Annual Cost of Electricity Utilized: Case A 1(1)/(3)]          2.4 FH(/kWh
(6) Levelized Annual Cost of Electricity Utilized: Case B ((2)J(4)1          1.6 FMG/kWh
Assumptions        Puelvood Economic Coat       19830.0 FPM/te   Fuelwood Use:  1986 level           12107.0 te/yr
Fuel O0l Economic Coat       80010.0 FMC/te   Fuelwood Use: With Recovery         12107.0 te/yr
Eachange Rate at June 1986    630.0 FMS/US$  Fuel OIl Use:  1986 level              841.0 te/yr
Shadow Rate for FE               1.3           Fuel Oil Use:  Witb Recovery        3875.0 te/yr
Discounat Rate Used   12.002
103 Value of Fuel Oil Exports ex Toaszsina         50.0 /te                                                                                             x
Inland Oil Transport and Usodling Charges          50.0 S/te     Foreign Exchange Content of transport Is 802;
Replacement Cost for Yucalypt Mood Fuel             6.0 $/13     hence ahadow value of fe Is applied to
Bssic Deneity of Eucalypt Fuelwood                500.0 kg/m3    transport component of enewrgy cost throughout
Moisture Content of Fuelwood Delivered             25.0 Zmcwb    these analyses.
Tranaport sad Randling Charges (average)         9000.0 1M/cte
Harvesting  ad Stacktng Fees to Roadside         3000.0 FmrE/te
Nantesane Costs are assumed to be equivalent for both boiler options



- 105
ANNEX 7.4
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Antanarivo-Antsirabe Transmission Line
Basis of Analysis
1.        The analysis compares the addition of a 138 kV transmission line
between Antananarivo and Antsirabe with supplemental diesel generationI in
Antsirabe as a means of augmenting supply from an existing 63 kV
transmission line between these cities.   A study by EDF International
demostrated that the 63 kV line must be rehabilitated in either case,
rather than replaced, as it serves important customers along the route, and
is in need of only minor repairs to ensure an additional 20 years of
service.    In  fact,  the  analysis  is more  to  determine whether  the
construction of the 138 kV line is timely,  rather than rule on its
construction per se for, as the proportion of diesel generation in
Antsirabe grows, and the supply of hydropower in the ICS expands with
further development,  full rather  than partial interconnection will be
increasingly justified.
Methodology and Assumptions
2.          The present value of costs of each option has been estimated
using both economic and financial prices. Table 7.4.1 provides a detailed
cash flow analysis with footnotes which quantify the assumptions made. The
key underlying assumptions in the economic analysis are as follows:
i)    the shadow value of foreign exchange is 1.3;
ii)   the value of supplemental diesel plant required in the first
instance is $3 million representing the economic value of the
Sulzer 8 MW plant to be transferred to Antsirabe from Toamasina;
iii)  hydropower surpluses in the ICS are assumed to be exhausted by
the year 2000 and from that year onwards an LRMC of hydropower
generation of about 5 UScents/kWh is adopted, representing the
estimated cost of production from the Ankahotra dam expansion to
the Andekaleka hydropower plant.
iv)   increasing diesel generation is required during peak hours to
cover the growing gap between firm 63 kV line capacity and
Antsirabe regional peak demand. Estimates of the diesel genration
during peak hours are provided in Table 7.4.1.
Results
3.          Supplemental diesel generation is the least cost solution in
economic and financial terms compared with an additional 138 kV line with
an NPV of $6.5 million and $12.1 million, and $6.5 million and $9.8
million, respectively.



Ta 7.4.1: E0ttC AmUII CF               _           _INS53  LIIE
aig 0.u* WW=  PM   ELMDS   63 W L?t              Q         WA= iPM 63 IS wg I/
MC                                                                   se_x a l_*8 esta
lDtict 6.u1g cap.Izu  Cgity 4*Podty .   1ms   m al  tal  Mmi 138 kV Lim  P4m           13OW LS=    2    63 kV Lim  &*db. 63 kV Lim    08eal    Steali Fel RMI6el            mom,
y-   UM          OAmm  63kV 3M li        W&   iE.btiM    Mimi Oqacity                ont                              lWfls      Guts ,              lbit       Gotso   Om Gut   & ml =         .a.  1W63kV 63 W
19 MM   1S.10   60.66   14.a    6.00    2.10   ILSO    Q0.    0.00   11.50   0.0 S.00 o            .95    0.77           0.14    0.11    0.50    0.53   0.14    0.11    0.01   0.03  0.16  0.13         1.58    0.80
MB 71.63  115   65.63   14.00    6.0    2.15  tl.50    0.00    o.    19.50    3.00    2.37    4.25    3.48               0.4    0.11    0.50    0.53   0.14    0.11    0.04   0.3  0.16  0.43          6.66    3.17
19  72.0   1.0   70.59  14.0    1.50    2.20   19.50    1.10    OA        140    0.00    0.00    4.25    3.48           0.14   0.11                   0.14    0 .1    0.01   0.01  0.04  0.03          3.64    0.16
1950 7L49  16.7   70.       14.0    2.0    2.27   1.       oM      0a.    U.40    O.OD    L0.0                           0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.01   0.01  0.05  O.    o.0o    0.24    0.17
11  L76  16.33   79.76   14.00   2.        2.33   140    00       0.00   18.40    OA    0.00                           0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.01   0.01  0.05  0.04    *    0.24    0.17
1s2 8S2   16.3   sD.Q   14.O0   2.00         39   18.0    O.       O0   18.40    0.       O.OD                           0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.01   0.01  0.05  0.04         0.24    0.17
1N9  8a54  16.47   N9.54   14.00    3.00   2.47   1.0    o.o0    o.o    1840    0.00    0.00                             0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.02   0.01  0.08  0.07          0.24    0.2D
1984 83.6   16.3   644   10         3.0    2.S3   is8.    o00    o0o   1u40   o0    .OD                                  0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.02   0.01  0.08  0.07         O.4    O.
IM5  3.o806.60   6D.e   14.0    3.00    2.60   1           0.00    0.00   1840    0.00    o.0                            01s    0.12                   0.14    0.11    0.02   0.010010. o7              0.24    0.D
1996   s   16.67   82.25   14.0    3.00    2a7   140    0.00    0.00   18.4    0.00    0.00                              0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.02   0.01O0.08 0.07            0.24    0.20
1987 85.64  16.74   816    14       4.00    2.74   1       0.0    0.0    18.4    0.00    0.OD                            0.15    0.12                  0.14   o0.1    0.02   0.2  0.11  0.A             O.4    0.22
19 6613 1832L13 14.O                4.0     2.83  8        O.0    o.0o 0840    0.00    0.00                              0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.02 0.02 01    o.0              0.24    0.22
1998 86.55  1.91     55   14.00    4.0    2.91   U         O1 .    0O.   18.40    O.O0    0.00                           0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.l   0.02   0.02  0.11  O.            0.24    0.22
2 8D s7.0 0 .99   Be0    14.0    4.00   2.9    18.40    0.00    0.00   1840    00         0.00                   0.12    0.15    0.2                   0.14    0.t1    0.02   0.02 0.11 0.0             0.36    Om
M1   A46  17.07        6 14.0    4.0    3.07  I18O    O0    OO.         1       O.  O.                       0.12    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.l    0.02   OA2  0.11  0.09            0.36    0.22
2M2 87.94  17.16   83.94   14.00    4.      3.16   1.      0.0     00    140    0.00    0.00                        2    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.02   0.02  0.11  O.            0.36    0.22
20D   6.5   17.27   85.55   14.     5.0a   3.Z7   1        o8 W    OA 0 .60      o o00    O.0D                  0.16    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11   o.3   0.02  0.14  O.Al            0.3   O2
204 .07   17.37   8.07   1400    5.00    3.57   18.40    0.00   O.       1.40    0.00    0.00                   0.16    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.03   0.02  0.14  o.11          0.39    0.25
200.5  a   17.47   8.62   14.005D 5.        3.47     40    0.00    OA     140    0.00    0.00                    0.16    0.15   0.12                   0.14    0.11    0.03   0.02  0.14  0.11          0.9    0.25
208 90.19  17.57   8519   14A.    S0       3.57           0.00    0.00    8.40    9.80    7.75                  0.16    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.11    0.03   0.02  0.14  o.1l          0.39    8.0o
2WV  90.79 n  AS 8 .79   14.00    s.0    3.68   18.40    7.)   14.0   24.90   O0OD    O.Ou                       0.16    0.15    0.12                  0.14    0.l   0.03   0.02  0.14  0.11           0.39    0.25
2008 91.42  17.79                  91.42   17.79   21.90    0.00    0.00   24.90   I.    1.11                    2.83    0.15    0.12                                 0.55   OA3  2.50  2.05           2.96    3.56
2s s92o    17.91                   9207   17.91   24.90   o0.0    2.00   26.90    O.O   0.00                    2.85    0.15   0.12                                   0.55   0.43  2.52 2.L            2.98    2.49
2100 92.75 1.04                    92.75 1804   2.90    O.O0    O.0O   26.90    0.00    0.00                      2.88    0.15    0.12                                 0.56   0.43  2.54  2.08          3.0o    2.51
2D01  93.7   1L7                   9.47   117   26.90    o.0o   O.    26.90    0.00   OO.                      2.90    0.15    0.12                                  0.56   0.44  2.55  2.00          3.02    2.53
2D2 94.1  B                        94.21   1.30   1690    OA    0.00   26.90    1.40    1.11                     2.92    0.15    02                                   0.57   0.44 2.58  2.11           3.04    3.66
am3 94.99   .45                    94.98   18.45   26.90    200   2.0   26.90    OO.   O.                         2.94    0.15    0.12                                 0.57   0.45  2.60  2.13          3.07    2.57
2014 95.8   1.59                  9ff80   18.59   26.90    00    0.00   26.90   O0    OO.                      2.97    0.15    0.12                                 o0.7   0.45  2.62  2.14           3.00    2.59
215 96.0   87S                     96.5    1.5   26s.9    0.0    0.00   26.90    O.0   O00                        3A.    0.15    0.12                                  0.8   OAS  2.64  2.16 -5.1    3.12    2.62
/        .  :b*m                                                                                                                                                      Pmam  Vabat ol                   L2.08    6.51
-63 V liS  Uh Uamiug pmtame                                                                                       ?am* Plet hutAU   In htsai   1985
- om ad     a -t-   tae    to m    e aitiam1 lfe of 0D ys a 14 W Ln aw1t
- g81W Sil DImi             M  foe minim to semim In 1989    walm of  53 milli                                Plat    PO    Yr.cam T      let'd
- Mown d tbapm   -    X               66 20a &td I    t o dI uoI at     Jt-w      ort IDD  atetm*              MD      0.50    198    1996
0.50    1960    186
191 1.10   1964   1999
1. Need         Is kl 1p mith 6  M a  2 SO quit   MimIt                                                                    1.10   1967   1992
Mt eaid cosy to mdimn   m   asdmoty aqal to IC             ,aui                                              plelat    1.80    1968   1993
2. IS   cazd  by 63W lif Is totAd        Ie   o 1m  d      t dof al   q  at pk beus                                        7.50    1f2 20D7
_          1O dvpm         630n0FW                                                               IRG OWNI
-     wald tf_  1 J m0 U                                                                              cpft   wl: wafk ts     d eal  700.00 OMAW
Tidsm         UAn                                                                                      -MM coot f  mia qp   diea        66.0 ID    b ,>
-_ sap           d   b63yW 16           60I00   Gb                                                    -Wedfic (Im  msqaim  W.)   210.0D S/la                                                                              . U
.      a of 63 W UllO                    14.6   131                                                   -k a1    oila   dqti            450.00 WIlua_
_ * =a at 1S W lIe               53.00 t                                                                     c co  ct Go1ol  Aaits    190.O  =Vtor
at o d  smim  lie    140.W0   =                                                                -eic an - Oul OLI htabA 10.0 1X/ta                                                                                   a.
d N*mie fty            _     0.0 aD                                                              -h i Gt PepiDiel Pha t    85.
.dy of -m 6 aotim                40.0   WA                                                            -oca1p Gut Prom  Ueal G          SD.=
_a|pft  pqa .joim    70a                                                                              -t           c   t at kin onl     2.0D lUSWUtra
_a s1  pDt l.Um                  70.0                                                                 .ftcpaue at Ili Oil haot          0.90
-_i m do             138 W Ufe  150.00   _                                                            .aCtD  ztiai  Cof i bmlt          0.10
_    CM      s   63 W li        14.0 tvi   M                                                             C t $ro     10T               31.00   ME
_OROMmeft ca        a0.7 at ilhttt 00t51 =et                                                          08s4   we                        12.A
-gle Odl 1iq m   e                0.0 Ot *dd-3 Ahtal Mt



- 107 -                        ANNEX 7.5
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY I PROJECT
Comparative Economic and Financial Cost of
Rice Husk Briquettes * Madagascar, 1986 !f
Product      Ex-factory        Retail Price       Cooking     Cost V-r unit
cost (FMG/kg)    Antananarivo       Efficiency  energy utilized
FMG/kg  FMG/MJ       (%)         FMG/MJ
(June 86 prices)
Firewood
Financial Cost                 25       1.87         13              14.4
Economic Cost                  31       2.31         13              17.8
Charcoal
Financial Cost                 80       2.58         20              12.9
Economic Cost                 108       3.48         20              17.4
Rice H-,k Briguettes
Financial Cost    27.8         46.3     3.51         20              17.6
Economic Cost     23.3         38.8     2.94         20              14.7
a/  Base case is screw press of 0.55 t/h, 1,500 t/yr production.
E Economic cost of firewood and charcoal is market price plus US$6/m3
resource replacement cost.
o Efficiency data for rice husk briquettes based on analyses by TNO,
Holland.
Assumptions:  NCV of firewood, 13.4 NJ/kg, 25% mcwb.
NCV of charcoal, 31.0 NJ/kg, 5% mewb.
NCV of rice husk briquettes, 13.2 MJ/kg, 8% mcwb.
Source:  Econqmic and financial costs of production of rice husk briquettes
from consultant reports by Hans Buess and Jean-Roger Mercier.
Project files, World Bank.



- 108 -                        ANNEX 8.1
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGYI ---PROJECT
Documents entered into Project File
1.    AF-Elteknik.  Messrs. S. Dagberg, and L. Svensson.  Madagascar Energy
I Project Preparation Mission.  December 1985.
2.a   Buess, H. P.  Draft Report on Madagascar Rice Husk Briguetting
Mission. March 29, 1986.
2.b            Buess, H. P.  Projet de Rapport sur la mission concernant
les possibilites de fabrication de briquettes de balle de
riz a Madagascar (translated by World Bank). March 29,
1986.
3.    Compagnie G6n6rale des Eaux.  Rapport d'Etude d'Avant projet d6taillf
d'un syst8me de gestion lnformatise du patrimoine physique
(immobilisations) de JIRAMA* Paris, April 1986.
4.    CORE, International, Inc.  Marc L. Heitner.  Madagascar Energy I
Project Preparation Mission - Financial Aspects. January 2,
1986,
5.    Coyne et Bellier.  Etude de la rehabilitation de l'amfnagement
hydro6lectrigue de Volob6, exploitation de Toamasina.
Rapport provisoire, Vol. 1, Etude technique, Vol. 2, Etude
economique et financiare, rapport, Vol. 2, Etude economique
et fi anciare, annexes, 14 plans (4 items in 1). October
1986.l
6.    Electricit6 de France International.  R6publique D6mocratique de
Madagascar - JIRAMA - Etude d'implantation de chaudiares
glectriques et Etude de la ligne de transport
Antananarivo-Antsirabe. Rapport provisoire, Annexes (three
vols. total). May 1986.
7.             Etude d'implantation de chaudi8res electriques et 6tude de
la ligne de transport Antananarivo-Antsirabe. Rapport
definitif. November 1986.
8.             Compl6ments a lt6tude des chaudiAres electrigues - Projet de
tarification. Rapport int6rimaire. January 1987.
9.    FAO.  Lejeune, J. M. Rapport de consultation en carbonisation 'Les
perspectives des carbonimation de bois de pin dans les
plantations de FANALAMANGA (HAut-Mangoro, Madagascar)"
(preliminary report). August 1986
10.            Messrs. J. M. Lejeune, and C. Ramilison.  Etude de
faisabilit6 d'un complexe sylvo-industriel du Haut Mangoro
(Phase II) - Rhpublique Democratique de Madagascar -
Utilisation de cing types de four pour la carbonisation de
bois de pin A Madagascar. August 1986.



-109-                         ANNEX 8.1
Page 2 of 3
11.a  JIRAMA.  Contrat pour ls fourniture d'4nergie 6lectrigue A la
chaudjire. Draft, ca. 1986.
11.b           Direction Etudes Economiques et Planification.  Note sur la
simplification des tarif. et sur la hausse des recettes de
17% Pour lMa=nOe 1987. Presented during negotiations in
Washington, February 27, 1987.
12.   ORGACONSEIL.  Messrs. S. Croquette and R. Giblet.  Proositioen de
solutions de remplacement du systiue do prtefeuile a
cartes perfor4es et des caisses enregiteuse, D6partement
Gestion Clients TANA -GRAN) TAMA e            March 1985.
13.            Croquette, S. and Giblet, H.  Solution do remplacemeet du
'systame de portefeuille a cartes du D6partement Gestion
Clients "TANA - GRAND TAW," et Am6nagements de la Gestion
Clients de la Zone Interconnectde hbors 'TANAL et GRAND
TAN") et des Zones Ext6rieures   April 1985.
14.            Croquette, So Ra!port de synthbse - structures et methodes
organisation et informatigue - JIRAMA. June 1985.
15.a USAID. Messrs. Mercier (Breche S.A.R.L.), Petrich (Oak Ridge
National Laboratories), Calnan (U.S. Forest Service), Cantor
(ORNL), Lejeune (FAO). Etude de Faisabiliti de la
Carbonisation de petits bols plantation du Raut Mongoro -
Soclit6 FANXLAXANGA.  July 31, 1986.
15.b           FANALAMANGA Smallwood Carbonization Feasibility Study.
December 15, 1986.
15.c           Etude do faisabilite do la carbonisation do produits
d'4clarcie plantation du Haut-Mangoro - Societe FANALAMANGA
Rapport de fin de mission. July 20, 1986.
16.a USAID/Fonds d'Assistance a la Cooperation. K. Newcombe (IBRD), C.
H. Petrich (ORNL), J. R. Mercier (Breche S.A.R.L.).
Madagascar ProJet Energie 1, Projet do Proposition do
Progpaime do planification de 1'6nergie domestigue. May
1986.
16.b           Madagascar Energy I Project - Draft Household Energy
Planning Program Proposal. May 1986.
17.a USAID/National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. Messrs.
Granville Smith, Paul Clark, and Eugene Palmer.  Madagascar:
Aibodiroka Hydroelectric Project.  April 1986
17.b           Madagascar: Projet hydro-4lectrlgue d$Ambodiroka
(translated by the World Bank). April Igo
18.a           Mbadgascar: Ambodiroka Project Summary. April 1986.
18.b           Madagascar: Brave description du projet d'Ambodiroka
(trauslated by the World Bank). April 1986



- 110 -                       ANNEX 8.1
Page 3 of 3
19.            Madagascar:  Tolognaro hydroelectric project.  April 1986.
20.a           Madagascar:  Training in small hydroelectric power.  April
19-86.
20.b           Madagascar:  Programme de formation sur les petites
installations hydro-jlectriques (translated by the World
Bank). April 1986.
21.   Wind, Robert C.  Madagascar Mission de prgparation Energie I -
Gestion de l'energie et combustion du bois dans
l'industrie. Switzerland, March 1986.
World Bank Documents
22.a Newcombe, K. Madagascar Energy I Project Preparation - Energy Sector
Administration and Planning Needs Assessment. November 10,
1986.
22.b  Newcombe, K.  Madagascar Preparation du Premier Proet Energetiue -
Administration et Planification du secteur de l'energie:
Evaluation des besoins (translated by World Bank). December
1, 1986.
23.   Fiche du projet a cofinancer (translated by World Bank).  ca. 1986.
Government of Madagascar
24.   Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines.  Direction de l'Energie et de
1'Eau. Planification Energftique a Madagascar . December
10, 1985, with rough english translation, ca. February 1986.



I~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MA SECTION
I



A Ant r.o4
MADAGASCAR
PUBUC POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION UNES
AA.mbiobO
Power Stations:                    Transmission Unes:           ANsy-B.                 A Voh-s,
*   Hydro                           ------ -- 20kV                 A Ambnj.
A   Diesel                                   36kV                      ANTSERANANA
63kV
tS18kV                   A
Installed Caodty                                               r
*  A  c500kW                                          An..v A                  \A  *AndAp.
*  A   500-1000kW                                            iL               AAnt
1000-5000kW                                             AA-dn. AOhtw
5000kW
A  M.      ntw A                  c;
AMinoh j                                                 (g    i       un  
AMntnta*M   y                      AMaroy   s.n
MAHAJANGA                                      A      | M_
AAny B-"      
A-Im- IL                     -E;         A S*   *   tftMade
M AAk-b            TOAMASINA
\    K 1 ,          ANTANANARIVO
\ Mimin v-  Momn
Mrnnrro              AMoA-ib.gA. l
_)   t            A 7e;;0  /  -  1 ~~~~~~~nti;rrn'rrs  w Ar4b44inar
AMlandnlvzo 1 jlAblb J Ar5gt  neVtmnr
e.knTnlnbih.n.A                       A n   h Anr 
a-                                       !  -ant~ni...A                               d0h_.
Anbsitthnrdrrdh.naA   *Amb-oth                           Canal
|                                                         Rivers
:A..Mr..O.                         -   Faritany Boundaries
i/ MfA tnt a.    moroma
MonO,nbeA                      t                    inb.,                            r!5
FIANARANTSOA          * Mani...
TOLIARA                                      V.hipnnoA
A Fn.fg-tn
ToMir  A                                 )      Vgindnno- A                                            C OMOZii-
Sr                                                                         - .A        -i
BOTSWANAM   -
A               ~~~~~~SOUTH AFFICA
0
W                                                                                                                               O
aM 



