Dammat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
QC flk2t- k'cN
Report No. P-4438-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 19.8 MILLION (US$ 25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
ENERGY PROJECT
April 9, 1987
I This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienis only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discicqed without World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC RlEUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CURRENCY EgUrIVATgNTS
Calendar 1986         January 19117
Currency Unit                              Malagasy P onc (FMG)
US$ 1.00                     -       FHG 676               FMG 755
FMG 100                      -      US$ 0.15               USS 0.13
SDR 1.00                             11U$ 1.11             US$ 1.25
US$ 1.00                     -      SDR 0.85               SDR 0.80
EKchange rate used in Appraisal and President'a Reports USS 1o00   FMG 750 (am
of July 1986),
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (m3)              - 35.29 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)                - 0.621 mile
1 kilovolt (KY)                 - 1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)                 - 1,000 kilowatte
1 gigawatt hour (G0H)           - I million kilowatt hours (KWH)
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe) - 10,500,000 kilocalories
1 gigawatt (OW)                 - 1,000 MW
1 hectare (ha)                  - 2.47 acre
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA          -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en
Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
INI            -    Banque Nationale pour l'Industrie (National
Bank for Industry)
CCCE           -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CIDA           -    Canadian International Development Agency
DEE            -    Department of Electricity and Water
DEF            -    Department of Fishery and Forestry
DGP            -    Planning Directorate
ESMAP          -    Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAC            -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FANALAMANGA   -    Malagasy Industrial Wood Plantation Authority
FAO            -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FED            -    Fonds Europ;en de Diveloppement (European
Development Fund)
GOM            -    Gover nment of Madagascar
ICS            -    Inter-Connected System
JIRAMA         -    Malggasy Electricity and Water Corporation
MIEM           -    Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines
MPAEF          -    Ministry of Animal Production, Fisheries and Forests
MPABA          -    Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian
Reform
OMNIS          -    National Military Office for Strategic Industries
PSIP           -    Public Sector Investment Program
RIP            -    Power Sector Reference Investment Program
SOLIMA         -    Malagasy National Petroleum  Company
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Program
USAID          -    United States Agency for International Development
EZ             -    Major Power Production Zone Outside ICS
IZ             -    Small Isolated Power Systems
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY PROJECT
CUEDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers          Government of Madagascar.
Amounts            SDR 19.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent).
Beneficiaries:     The Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation (JIRAMA);
the Ministries of Industry, Enqrgy and Mines, of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform and of Animal
Production, Fisheries and Forests; public enterprLses
involved in the boiler program; local private charcoalers;
and the Hmlagay Industrial Wood Plantation Authority
(FANALAMANA).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.1i
Prolect
Oblectives:        The purpose of the credit is to: help the Government and
JIRAMA improve the reliability of power production and
supply through the rehabilitation and expansion of existing
infrastructure; strengthen JRAMA&'s financial and
operational performance; maximize the commercial use of
existing hydropower resources and other economically
accessible household energy resources; and strengthen
enorgy sector institutions, particularly in the area of
policy formulation, planning, and investment programming.
Prolect
Description:       The project would finance the hlghost priority components
of JIRAHA's investment plan for 1987-92, and equipment and
technical assistance for strengthening energy sector
planning capability and developing economically accessible
energy resources. The project consists of the following
main components: (a) for the power sector: rehabilitation
and expansion of high-priority generating plants and
transmission and distribution facilities; provision of
telecommunication equipment and vehicles and related spare
parts; mobile maintenance equipment, computer hardware and
software in support of planning and investment programming;
staff training, technical assistance and studies; and
installation of electric boilers to use the surplus
hydropower in the Inter-Connected System; and (b) for the
energy sector: equipment for production of pine charcoal
and rice husk briquettes; and technical assistance and
studies to strengthen energy planning and support household
energy demand strategy formulation.
I/ Onlending terms to IrRAhA would be 1.1 times the interest rate of the Bank
at the time of Board presentation for a period of 25 years including a
grace period of 5 years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislobsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Beneflt.:           By reducing outages, the proposed project would help to
stabilize power supply, facilitate Industrial output and
export growth, and the connection of new domestic
consumers. It would lead also to savings In imported fuel
oil and coal, as well as to sound financial management in
JIRAM& and energy sector investment planning and investment
programming.
Risks:              The two main risks facing the project are that:  JIRAMA
could have difficulty in administering the rehabilitation
works and Government could delay required tariff increases
and other financial measures. These risks would be
minimized by the hiring of consultants to assist with the
implementation of the rehabilitation program and through
the careful definition of precise conditions tied to the
release of the proposed IDA credit. Other major physical
risks are minimal since the project concentrates mostly on
rehabilitation and JIRAMA has a good record of safe
engineering practices.
Local     Foreign      Total
-5- US$ Million -------
Estimated Costs
I. Power components
Generation                                    1.9        13.4         15.3
Transmission and Substations                  0.6         2.2          2.8
Distribution                                  1.1        11.1         12.2
General Plant                                 0.0         4.4          4.4
Power Sector Institution Building             0.3         0.9          1.2
Feasibility Studies                           0.1         1.0          1.1
Electric Boiler Program                       0.2         1.4          1.6
Sub-Total Power Components                    4.2        34.4         38.6
II. Energy components
Household & Industrial Fuels Production       0.1         1.2          1.3
Energy Planning Support                       1.8         2.8          4.6
Studies                                       0.0         0.6          0.6
Sub-Total Energy Components                   1.9         4.6          5.5
ProIect Preparation                           0           0.9          0.9
Base Cost                                     6.1        39.9         46.0



- iii -
Contingeancess  Physical                      0.4         2.6          3.0
Price                        0.4         2.3          2.7
Duties and Taxes                             8I1          0.0          8.1
Total Project Cost                           15.0        44.8         59.8
Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million-------
Financing Plan
IDA                                                       25.0        25.0
EIB                                                       14.4        14.4
BADEA                                                      5.4         5.4
JIRAMA                                        10.5         -          10.5
Others                                         0.2         -           0.2
Government                                     4.3         -           4.3
Total Financing                               15.0        44.8        59.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Years                1988   1989    1990    1991  1992
---- US$ Million -
Annual                           1.0    4.0       7.5     7.0   5.5
Cumulative                       1.0    5.0      12.5    19.5  25.0
Economic Rate of Return:  33 percent for the JIRAHA power system
46 percent for the Inter-Connected System alone
Appraisal Report:          6405-MAG
Na-p:.                     IBRD No. 18816



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN ENERGY PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit of SDR 19.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) to the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar on standard IDA terms to help finance an
Energy Project. Out of the credit proceeds, (a) US$17.9 million would be
onlent to JIRAMA at 1.1 times the Bank's interest rate at the time of Board
presentation for 25 years including a grace period of 5 years; and (b)
US$1.8 million would be channeled through BNI, to private charcoalers and
selected enterprises for the purchase of electric boilers to use surplus
power generated by JIRAMA. Cofinancing for the project is expected to be
provided by the European Investment Bank, and by BADEA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects"
(Report No. 5996-MAG) was distributed to the Executive Directors and to
participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group in March 1986. Its
conclusions as well as the results of IMF negotiations on a Sixth Standby
Program are reflected below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.       With a population of 10 million and a per capita income of US$250
in 1985, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. The
country is sparsely settled, with a population density of about 17
inhabitants per square kilometer. While generally well endowed with
natural resources and a variety of soils, there are large regional
variations in ecology and climate. Agriculture is the mainstay of the
economy, providing employment for 85 percent of the population, creating
two fifths of GDP and generating more than 80 percent of export earnings
(coffee, vanilla and cloves).
4.       The years following 1972 marked a turning point in Madagascar's
political and economic development. The government that took office in
1972 emphasized national control of the economy. It introduced inward-
looking policies aiming at self-sufficiency in industry and agriculture,
nationalized most of the larger private companies (which were essentially
foreign-owned), and established direct or indirect state control over the
greater part of agricultural marketing. A new system of regional and local
government (the fokonolona system) was introduced, intended to provide for
decentralization within a framewqrk of centralized control. The present
regime, which came to power in 1975, intensified, extended, and codified
these policies. Pricing policies became biased in favor of urban
consumers. Fiscal and external economic policy remained cautious through
most of the decade, and the level of public external debt was extremely
low. In 1978, however, Government decided to diversify the economy, taking
advantage of Madagascar's borrowing potential, and adopted a policy of



- 2 -
"all-out investment." Many new parastatal companies were created.
Unfortunately, many of the projects selected made very little contribution
to GNP, exports, or debt-servicing capacity, so that by 1980 the debt
service ratio was rising sharply.
5.       From 1973 to 1982, real per capita GDP fell by an estimated
28 percent. The main factors behind this decline were: (a) the persistent
climate of uncertainty within the private sector created by the
nationalizations of the mid-1970s, combined with the rapid expansion of an
inefficient and unmanageable public sector; (b) excessive market
regulation, through price fixing and controls that favored urban consumers,
restrictive licensing legislation, quantitative import restrictions and
exchange controls, and the establishment of national and regional marketing
monopolies (cereals, agricultural inputs, basic comnodities, road and sea
transport, financial institutions); and (c) the neglect of smallholder
agriculture in favor of import-substitution manufacturing, including
enterprises of dubious economic value.
6.       The financial crisis that started in 1980 was the result both of
inappropriate policies and of external shocks. While export prices flagged
and international oil prices doubled, GDP and export volumes continued to
decline, the budgetary deficit rose to 18 percent of GDP, domestic
inflation reached 30 percent per year, external debt service obligations
(before rescheduling) relative to exports escalated from about 4 percent in
1978 to a peak 90 percent in 1985, and the current account deficit of the
balance of payments reached 18 percent of GDP. As resource constraints
tightened, domestic investment plummeted. Under the impact of heavy
external payment obligations, declining export earnings, and reduced
creditworthiness, severe foreign exchange shortages prevailed. Import
constraints, the severe rationing of foreign exchange, and an overvalued
exchange rate contributed to a sustained decline in industrial and
agricultural production.
7.       Faced with an unsustainable external current account gap,
Government began to implement stabilization measures in 1981 with IMF
assistance. From 1983, aggregate expenditure was steadily reduced and
gross domestic savinge increased. Among the notable measures taken to
control demand were the abolition of consumer subsidies and tight monetary
management. Sustained austerity combined with measures to boost revenues
helped reduce the budget deficit;and inflation. Measures were also taken
to restore production incentives. Throughout 1982-85, the FMG underwent a
real depreciation of 25 percent vis-a-vis the SDR, and a further 20 percent
depreciation was implemented in August 1986. Public sector tariffs were
increased, while a program of liberalization of prices and markets was
undertaken in the agricultural, industrial, and transport sectors.
8.       Between 1980 and 1985, agricultural output fluctuated.  Production
of rice remained at around 2 million metric tons of paddy per year.
Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the period, although
the volume imported declined steadily from a peak 356,000 metric tons in
1982 to about 105,000 metric tons in 1985. The decline in rice imports,
however, was due to foreign exchange scarcity rather than any marked
increase in domestic self-sufficiency. Production of other food crops
(maize, potatoes, cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and significantly,
following higher demand for these crops as a result of increased rice
prices.  Coffee exports since 1982 averaged 50,000 tons per year, compared



- 3 -
to 70,000 tons in 1980. The decline was the result of low producer prices,
shortages of inputs and transportation bottlenecks. Cotton production grew
rapidly in response to increased producer prices and, with the support of a
project financed by IDA and France, Madagascar became a net exporter of
cotton fiber. The production of other industrial and export crops
generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco and pepper) or declined (e.g.,
groundnuts) due to inappropriate pricing and marketing policies which
reduced incentives to producers and traders. The output of two other
principal export crops, vanilla and cloves, was stagnant in the face of
limited world market demand.
9.       Industrial output declined sharply between 1980 and 1984 with a
modest recovery in 1985 and 1986. Industrial manufacturing capacity has
been heavily underutilized in recent years owing to shortages of
domestically supplied and imported inputs and spare parts. The
construction industry also remained slack. On the policy front, Government
initiated positive changes, easing pricing controls, improving the
administration of foreign exchange allocation, and legislating a new
Investment Code aimed at attrseting foreign private investors. A
liberalized import regime is being implemented which will eliminate
quantitat'ive restrictions on about 15 percent of merchandise imports.
10.      Owing to the slow growth of agriculture and industry, transport
activity also stagnated. Costs escalated due to the dilapidated state of
the transport system. Low admin.'stered tariffs reduced incentives to
private transporters, thus further discouraging the provision of services.
To improve the transport system and the policy environment, Government
selected an "economic network" of about lO,000 kms of primary and secondary
roads for priority rehabilitation; established a road fund for maintenance;
and permitted tariff increases for the roads, railways, and the national
airline.  A national transport plan is now being prepared with IDA support.
11.      Public Finance.  The "all-out investment" campaign of the late
1970s caused an unprecedented growth in public capital expenditures. It
was largely financed by external loans and substantial budget deficits,
leading to the accumulation of arrears. Between 1981 and 1985, the bulk of
the fiscal adjustment was accomplished by cutting capital expenditures,
reducing general Government activity, containing the expansion of the
payroll, and phasing out budgetary subsidies to parastatals (many of which
subsequently became indebted to the banking system). Given the low level
of activity of the economy, attempts to increase revenues were generally
less successful. The magnitude of the overall budgetary deficit, which
stood at 18 percent of GDP in 1980, was reduced to 4.5 percent in 1985.
Current budgetary deficits were eliminated from 1983 on, so that the
Government was in a position to contribute to development expenditures.
Nevertheless, the size of the current surplus remains small relative to
public investment needs, so that the execution of a number of foreign-
financed projects is stifled due to the lack of local cost financing.
12.      Monetary developments during 1980-85 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting implementation of stabilization measures.
Throughout the period, the growth of credit to Government was reduced and,
beginning in 1982, credit to the non-government (i.e., parastatal and
private) sectors generally expanded faster than credit to the Government.
Domestic inflation was reduced, from about 30 percent in 1981 and 1982 to
approximately 11 percent in 1985. The reduction of inflation during the
period was all the more remarkable in that it occurred at a time when the
Malagasy Franc was depreciating.



- 4 -
13.      Madagascar's balance of Payments remained weak throughout 1980-85,
despite substantial annual reductions in the volume of imports to the point
of adversely affecting economic activitiss. The position remaiAed weak
owlng to poor export performance and heavy debt service payments.
Stabilization efforto throughout the period led to steady and marked
Improvements in the resource and current balances. In 1985, the resource
gap (US$140 million) and current account deficit (US$258 million) had
fallen to 25 percent and 45 percent of their respective 1980 levels.
14.      Based on the external debt portfollo at and 19B6 and after taking
into account pipeline disbursements, Madagascar will need gross capital
inflow of about US$450 million per year during the 1987-90 period to cover
current account deficits, meet scheduled debt repayments, and maintain a
modest amount of gross reserves. The country will therefore continue to
need increased financial assistance from the international community in the
form of grants, concessional borrowings and debt relief. The conditions
under which Madagascar is able to obtain new finance and reschedule the
debt are of crucial importance and will determine whether the country will
be able to overcome present external payment constraints, even with a high-
quality policy program.
15.      Financial Strategy.  Sincc the emergence of the debt crisis at the
beginning of the 1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by
cutting imports, through the demand management measures described above,
complemented by substantial debt rescLeduling. These measures are very
costly, involving disruption of economic activity and refinancing of some
originally concessional loans at less concessional terms. Even more
important, they have yet to lead to a viable balance of payments, which can
only be achieved by restoring growth in export earnings. Madagascar now
has probably reached a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down
to bare essentials. While the country's creditors may continue to accord
debt rescheduling, to generate significant amounts of debt relief the
rescheduling arrangements would need to be more concessional than
previously. In the future, therefore, Madagascar must attempt to boost
export earnings as a means of strengthening the balance of payments and
reducing the debt burden. Concessional balance of payments support will
continue to be needed.
16.      Relationship with the IMF.  The Government complied with the
performance crlteria of the Fifth Standby Agreement signed in April 1985.
Most of the important program targets were achieved. A Sixth Standby
Program was approved by the Fund Executive Directors in September 19B6, and
the first review of it was completed by the Fund Board in March 1987.
While continuing measures to stabilize the economy, the program emphasizes
the promotion of economic growth by means of further liberalization of the
external account, the rehabilitation of selected parastatals, improved
domestic producer prices and marketing systems, and a substantial step
devaluation of the FMG. Madagascar is eligible for IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility resources, and a medium-term program is being
formulated with the help of the Bank and the IMF.
17.      The third meeting of the Consultative Group for Madagascar took
place on April 25 and 26, 1986. The participants agreed that the
Government's program of policy reforms was on the right path and it was
urgent that It be pursued and developed further. It was recognized that if
Government's efforts were to succeed, Madagascar needs substantial external
support. This would be provided by a combination of higher official



development asuimtance, particularly in the form of quick disbursing aid,
and debt rescheduling. Agreement on rescheduling was reached at a meeting
of the Paris Club on October 25, 1986, and the Consultative Group is
expected to moet again in late 1987.
PART II- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
18.      Overall Lending Lbvels and Sectoral Composition.  As of September
1986, IDA credits to Madagascar amounted to US$607.9 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans totaled US$32.6
million. Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on
infrastructure, including urban and social infrastructure (48 percent of
lending), agriculture and industry (41 percent), and onergy (11 percent).
IFC has four investments in Madagascar, in textiles, footwear, and
fisheries. Annex II contains a summary statemont of past loans and IDA
credits as of September 30, 1986.
19.      Energv lending.  The energy sector has received growing Bank Group
attention. In 1978, IDA participated with several co-lenders in the
f.nancing of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was
successfully completed in June 1982. The Petroletum Exploration Promotion
Credit (US$12.5 million) and the Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Exploration Credit
(US$11.5 million) approved respectively in 1980 and 1982, have both
supported Government's efforts in attracting foreign oil companies for
exploration development.
20.      Infrastructure Lending.  The Bank has supported eleven transport
projects with IDA credits totaling US$201.8 million. Six credits (US$147.2
million) were for the construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of
highways; two (US$23.6 million) in 1970 and 1986 to improve Madagascar's
main port of Toamasina and sector institutions; and three (US$31.0 million)
to support the railway's modernization efforts in 1974, 1979, and 1986.
Out of the eleven projects, seven have been completed. Urban
infrastructure development benefited in 1980 from a Water Supply and
Sanitation Credit for the capital city of Antananarivo (US$20.5 million)
and an urban development project (US$12.8 million) in 1984. In 1984, IDA
responded to the need to reconstruct cyclone damage with a US$15 million
credit. A supplemental credit of US$10 million, following the March 1986
cyclone, was signed in August 1986.
21.      Agricultural Lending.  The Bank has supported 15 agricultural
projects, of which five have been completed. This has included projects in
livestock development (three), irrigation (four), agricultural institution
development (two), forestry (two), agricultural credit (one), rice
intensification (one), and cotton development (one). An Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit, with complementary Special Facility for Africa
and Special Joint Financing resources, was approved in May 1986.
22.      Other Lending.  In 1980, a US$5 million credit was made to the
Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar. An Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit of US$40 million became effective in August 1985, and a Supplemental
Credit of US$20 million from the Special Facility for Africa was approved
in December 1985. In the social sectors, education has been the major
recipient of Bank assistance, with two credits in 1967 and 1976 totaling
US$11.8 million. A credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million) for an
accounting and audit training project was approved in 1981; and a second



credit of US10.3 million for management and acccQnting training in
February 1986.
23.      Implementation Problems.  Problems encountered in the execution of
a number of projects included mainly delays, cost overruns, deficiencies in
management, and inadequate financial performance. Current problems center
on difficulties linked to the country's economic crlsis, notably the acute
shortage of foreign exchange and budget funds, and Institutional problems
with the parastatal system. The Bank has addressed generic issues in part
through Country Implementation Reviews, technical assigtance and secondment
staff. The Government h%s been responsive and there have been improvements
in Government portfolio management.
24.      Prolect Evaluation.   Eight completed projects have been audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department. Audit Report No. 1622 of December
1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was
generally successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of
August 1981 concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had
been over-optimistic, and that the actual rate of return was probably
negative. Audit Report No. 1143 of April 1976 of the first Education
Project concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved. Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the
Third Highway project was well justified and had a satisfactory rate of
return despite substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978
concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port project were
satisfactorily achieved, but pointed out that the institutional objective
was not accomplished during project implementation because of inadequacies
in the staffing of the port authority. Report No. 5434 of January 29,
1984, on the first Railway Project concluded that due to overruns and
delays, the scaled-down project had an estimated rate of return of less
than 10 percent. Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984, covered two
agricultural projects: the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development
Project was a profoundly disappointing operation, but the Village Livestock
and Rural Development Project contributed to laying the groundwork for more
effective services for traditional livestock owners, with good prospects
for sustainability.
25.      Bank Stratexy and Future Program.  The Bank strategy is to support
the Government's efforts to rehabilitate and restructure the economy by:
(a) promoting policies and programs aimed at reforming incentive
structures, setting a more favorable climate for private sector initiative
and investments, and providing financial and other support for appropriate
policy prograns; (b) supporting sectoral strategies aimed at rehabilitating
productive infrastructure and establishing conditions for long-term growth,
and providing financial and technical assistance for these programs; (c)
strengthening the institutions responsible for sectoral policy formulation
and management; and (d) helping Madagascar to mobilize and to make
effective use of donor financial and technical support.
26.      Lending Program Development.  On the assumption of continued
Government responsiveness, the Bank plans to support Government adjustment
efforts with sectoral and, possibly, structural adjustment lending.
Further sector adjustment operations in agriculture and industry are being
prepared. These would support continued market deregulation, export
promotion, cost recovery, private investment, parastatal reform, and
rehabilitation of productive and economic assets. The program would also
address longer term issues in human resource development, health,



- 7 -
agricultural research, and forautrylenvironmentsl degradation. Overall,
future landing would concentrate mainly on agriculture, Industry, and
transport.
27.      Tho main vehicle for aid coordination has bean the Consultative
Group (CO).   An Important element of the Bank country assistance strategy
has been to make the CG a more effective means of addressing Madagascar's
economic and financial problems, with a belief that donor and creditor
support of a comprehensive financing stratogy, combined with a sound
Government program to stimulate real growth, would offor the best prospects
for future development.
28.      Economic and Sector Work.  Tho Bank Group economic and sector work
program for the next three years is intended to support the identificrition
of future adjustment measures, am wll as donor coordination within the CG
framework. It Is directed at parastatal reform, improvement in sector
planning and public investment program formulation, and development of a
core medium-term lending program. UNDPIIBRD technical assistance projects
to assist the Directorate-General for Planning in investment planning and
aid coordination have recently been signed. A study of the population and
health sector has recently been carried out. The Bank Group is also
providing technical assistance in policy analysis and selective
institution-building; two Bank staff members have been seconded to assist
the Government (irn public lnvestment programning and ln the management of
the livestock sector). The Bank's Resident Mission has been strengthened
by a resident economist.
PART III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
29.      Madagascar's main indigenous energy resources are hydropower,
woody biomass from forests and agriculture, heavy oil and oil shale, coal,
and peat. Although Madagascar is endowed with substantial energy
resources, economically recoverable quantities are not known as their
physical and technical accessibility is generally difficult. Inefficient
planning and coordination within the sector has resulted in inadequate
utilization of those resources that are economically accessible,
particularly in hydropower and woody biomass.
30.      In 1984, at the request of the Government, the Bank conducted an
overall assessment of the energy sector under the joint UNDP/World Bank
Energy Sector Assessment Program. The study concluded that sector issues
requiring the most urgent actions are (a) deforestation and the related
environmental deterioration; (b) poor condition of power subsector
infrastructure; (c) substantial under-utilization o existing hydropower
surplus available from the Andekaleka hydroelectric generating station
within the inter-connected zone; (d) definition of the future form of
petroleum product supply and the need to assess the viability of and
options for rehabilitating the SOLIMA refinery and its distribution system;
(e) inadequate definition of the physical availability and the economic
accessibility of the major potential energy resources, particularly in
regard to hydropower and woody biomass; and (f) general weaknesses in
energy policy formulation and planning.



- 8
Energy Resources and Network
31.      Electric Power.  The total installed capacity in Madagascar is 267
MW, of which 77 percent is owned by the public sector, managed by JIRAMA,
the Malagasy Electrici4y and Water Corporation, and 23 percent by the
private sector. The public power system comprises 169 diesel generating
units and 30 hydropower generating units with a combined installed capacity
of 205 MW. The public supply is organized in three supply zones: the
Inter-Connected System (ICS), the External Zone, and the Isolated Zone,
with the major supply zone being the hydropower-dominated ICS. In 1985,
the ICS included 51 percent of the total installed capacity in the public
sector and provided 64 percent of total electricity (318 GWH) supplied from
the public sector, 73 percent of which was generated from hydropower
generation capacity (105 MW). All urban centers are served by electricity
provided from public supply. Only 6 percent of the total population is
connected to electricity, and per capita consumption is 33 KWh per year;
the level of electrification in Madagascar is relatively low by regional
standards.
32.      Very little of Madagascar's hydropower potential has been
exploited, due in part to limited information on the potential to
economically displace existing diesel generating plants with micro-
hydropower installations and to the absence of a comprehensive least-cost
development plan. Weaknesses in Government investment planning have led to
a serious imbalance within the system between generation expansion (there
is excess hydropower in the ICS) and maintenance and rehabilitation of the
existing infrastructure. Electricity supply in Madagascar from hydropower
is expected to grow from 68 percent of total public supply in 1985 to 84
percent in 1995. A medium-term strategy for the power subsector is to
inter-connect major isolated power systems to stabilize supply and increase
the consumption of hydropower in substitution for imported fuels.
33.      Petroleum.  Most exploration has been concentrated in the
Morondava basin located in the west, where tar sands and heavy oil deposits
have been found. Deposits in this basin are estimated to contain roughly 5
to 20 billion barrels of oil equivalent. Since 1979, some major
international companies, notably Mobil, AGIP, Amoco, and Occidental, have
invested about US$220 million in oil exploration in Madagascar. However,
most wells drilled by these companies or under the ongoing IDA heavy oil
exploration project in the Tsimiroro arda were found dry or without
sufficient oil saturation for commercial exploration. Nevertheless,
exploration activities are still being pursued, and the Government is
reinforcing its promotional activities. Although petroleum import volumes
have been declining since 1978, in 1983 Madagascar's net petroleum imports
represented a third of total merchandise imports and absorbed half of non-
energy export revenues.21 Because of foreign exchange constraints,
Madagascar continues to procure its crude and refined products at prices
considerably higher than those achievable under optimal arrangements.
34.      SOLIMA, the Malagasy National Petroleum Company, is responsible
for petroleum importing, refining, distribution, and marketing. Presently,
the refinery is operating below its full capacity and is in deteriorated
condition due to lack of maintenance and rehabilitation. In addition, at
21 Fuel oil surplus to country requirements is re-exported from the
Toamasina refinery.



the Port of Toamasina, where moat petroleum imports are unloaded, handling
facilities and storage as well as coastal transport and inland distribution
systems are all in poor operating condition, causing substantial product
losses. The Government is planning a major rehabilitation program for the
SOLIHA refinery, and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooporation Economique
has expressed interest in partial financing of this program, although no
firm arrangements have been made. The petroleum subsector requires an
overall review, in order to: define ways to minimize costs of procurement
of crude and products; improve the operation, marketing and distribution
systems of the refinery; prepare a master plan; and rationalize overall
subsector organization and policy, particularly in the area of pricing.
Forests
35.      There are about 12.5 million ha of natural forests and about
265,000 ha of eucalyptus and pine plantations. Only about 20 percent of
the natural forest is economically accessible under environmentally sound
management practices. Because of the current regional imbalances and the
fact that surplus production in other regions cannot be economically
transported to deficit areas, major demand centers for woodfuels are
experiencing serious shortages leading to substantial increases in prices
over the past decade. In 1983, household energy represented 83 percent of
final energy consumption, of which firewood and 'charcoal represented 96
percent. This situation is unlikely to change over the next decade.
Without appropriate interventions, the supplyldemand imbalance projected
for the period 1988-95 will lead to a loss of about 1.5 million ha of
natural forests, or 12 percent of present forest resources. It is probably
not feasible to reforest the country at the pace of the anticipated
deforestation. This problem can be ameliorated through a variety of
household energy supply interventions, inclading expanded use of modern
fuels (kerosene, electricity) as well as improved recovery of woody biomass
and forest residues as part of a better management of existing forest
resources.
36.      The FANALAMANGA parastatal (Malagasy Industrial Wood Plantation
Authority) has about 80,000 ha of industrial pine plantation in the Haut
Mangoro region. A thinning program for this plantation is planned to start
in 1987, to thin commercially viable stands within the plantation.
Presently, thinning products have higher value as a charcoal feedetcck than
for other uses. A minimum of 250,000 m3 per year would be available,
representing about 25,000 tons of pine charcoal or more than 25 percent of
the Antananarivo market. Quantities may reach more than 500,000 m3 per
year in the medium term. Utilization of this resource for household
cooking fuel could substantially reduce regional deforestation. A
feasibility study of Haut Mangoro pine charcoal production completed in
July 1986, under UNDP and USAID financing, showed that such activity could
yield a financial rate of return of 20 to 30 percent if market acceptance
were achieved, and if appropriate technical and financial assistance were
provided to FANALAMANGA as well as to interested private charcoalers for
carbonisation of this pine smallwood resource.
37.      Other Biomass Resources.  The main agricultural crop residues that
could eventually be used as fuels for domestic and industrial consumption
are rice and sugar crop residues. Cellulosic residues generated annually
from rice, the main agricultural crop in Madagascar, are estimated to be
about 4.6 million tons of which 500,000 tons are rice husks. Except for
the Lac Alaotra Region where about half of the rice husk residues are used



- 30 -
am fuel for rice milling, rice husks are mostly disposed of as wastes,
while they could be briquetted and used as household fuels in substitution
for woodfuels. Bagasse and cane field residujes also offer a long-term
potential economic source of energy that could be used to produce
electricity for sugar mills and serve regional demand within the public
distribution syutems.
38.      Coal, Limnite and Peat.  The main coal reserves are in the Sakoa
Basin located in the southwest part of the country. Coal resources are
estimated at about one billion tons, of which 82 million are recoverable by
underground methods and only 23 million by open pit methods. At present,
the exploitation of coal resources seems uneconomic, and the present
industrial demand of about 30,000 tons per year is met through imports.
Lignite resources are mainly in the central highland region. Proven
lignite reserves are estimated at about 11 million tons, but their low
quality makes them uneconomic to mine. Peat resources scattered around the
country could also be substantial, but no national inventory has been made.
Peat resources are used widely for brick production.
Energy Policy and Planning
39.      The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines (MIEN) is responsible
for formulating energy policy and preparing energy pLans and investment
programs, although the National Military Office for Strategic Industries
(OMNIS) has also played an Important role in this area until recently. The
other two agencies under the authority of MIEN are JIRAMA (the National
Electricity and Water Corporation) and SOLIMA (para. 34). Other ministries
and government agencies involved with woody biomass fuel management include
the Ministry of Animal Production, Fisheries and Forests (MPAEF), the
parastatal timber producer, FANALAMANGA, which is under the authority of
MPAEF with respect to woodfuel production (especially charcoal), and the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA), with
respect to agricultural residue fuels. Coordination among these ministries
and agencies has not been effective; and formulation of a coherent energy
policy and development of adequate planning and investment programming have
been inadequate. Currently, there is no explicit energy sector investment
program. Energy sector components included in the Public Sector Investment
Plan have been compiled from the plans and programs provided by the various
agencies and ministries involved in the energy sector without prior review
and consideration of sector-wide priorities and least-cost solutions.
40.      During the preparation of the proposed energy project, the
Government agreed to the need for strengthening MIEN, particularly in
regard to its planning functions, and confirmed the central role and
responsibility of MIEM for energy policy formulation and investment
planning and programming. To address the above issues, MIEN requires
substantial technical assistance and supporting facilities (such as
computers) to develop effective energy planning and administration within
its Energy and Water Department (DEE).
JIRAMA
41.      Management and Organization.  JIRAMA is a parastatal created in
1975 to own and operate all public electricity and water supply facilities
in Madagascar. JIRAMA is managed by a Director General under the general



- 11 -
supervision of a Board of Directors which is presided over by the Minister
of HIEM. JIRAMA enjoys reasonable autonomy in the conduct of its day-to-
day operations, but is subject to Government control over its electricity
tariffs and interference in its investment decisions. JIRAMA has recently
been reorganized, and all planning activities and economic studies have now
been consolidated within the single Department of Planning and Economic
Studies, which will be strengthened with technical assistance under the
project proposed in this report.
42.      JIRAHA's managerial efficiency continues to be constrained by
inefficient and obsolete telecommunications equipment combined with a
deteriorated vehicle fleet, which is rendering communications between
headquarters and the regional offices extremely difficult. There is a need
to modernize JIRAMA's communications for efficient operations. Also, in
order to help JIRAMA to improve the quality of its services and reduce its
financial dependency, there is a need for a complete review and reform of
the commercial and administrative relationship between the Government and
JIRAMA. Government is taking important steps toward such an objective
through measures adopted for the financial restructuring of JIRAMA under
the proposed project (see pares. 48, 49 and 50). Government and JIRAMA
would prepare and present for IDA review by December 31, 1987, a reform
package in the form of a draft Contract Plan that would outline mutual
responsibilities and obligations regarding power sector financial,
management, and administrative matters; and provide IDA by June 30, 1988
with the final contract plan. This would aim to lead JIRAMA to a greater
financial viability and management autonomy based on a commitment to
achieve certain minimum performance criteria consistent with increasingly
sound financial performance and reliable low-cost power supply.
43.      To facilitate improvement in JIRAMA's management, a simple
management information system (MI$) is required to monitor agreed financial
and technical indicators. This MIS would also help the newly created
Department of Planning and Economic Studies to monitor and evaluate key
technical and cost parameters as part of the ongoing planning process.
JIRAMA would require technical assistance and computer facilities to
implement this MIS, as well as for the computerization of consumer billing
and accounting in regional supply centers, the asset inventory, and
maintenance management systems.
44.      StaffinR and Training.  As of mid-1986, JIRAMA had a total of
about 4,100 employees, about half of whom were concerned with electricity
operations. JIRAMA's staffing level for electricity operations is
considered satisfactory (58 consumefs per employee) by regional standards,
although there is scope for increasing the number of consumers served per
employee as anticipated growth in connections materialize under the
proposed project. JIRAMA's salaries are reasonably competitive, and the
company has been able generally to attract suitable staff. JIRAMA's
training activities are well organized; and most training is provided
through its in-house training facility. Training abroad has been severely
restricted due to lack of foreign exchange resources. Although JIRAMA has
competent technical staff, 'it has been to some extent isolated from the
latest techniques. JIRAMA requires some overseas training in the form of
refresher and short courses on recent developments in the power industry
and utility administration, and needs to strengthen its local training
program with the introduction of modern preventive maintenance methods.



- 12 -
45.      Infrastructure.  Most generating plants and transmission and
distribution facilities are in poor condition, due to age, shortages of
basic spare parts, materials and consumables, and hence lack of routine
maintenance over a long period. Many supply centers are also suffering
from serious imbalances between capacity and system demand. Consequently,
plant availability is low, and generation costs are high. These problems,
combined with a weakened transmission and distribution system, mean that
power supply in several major towns is now seriously jeopardized.
Moreover, poor communications between power plants and load dispatch
centers hamper the efficient use of available hydropower resources within
the ICS. There is an urgent need to rehabilitate key power subsector
infrastructure, to improve the reliability of supply, and to provide JIRAMA
with an adequate supply of spare parts, consumables, equipment and
materials to maintain the network and expand the transmission and
distribution system to supply the present considerable unmet demand through
the use of the existing hydropower surplus in the ICS.
46.      Financial Performance.  During the period of 1983-85, JIRAMA has
not been able to meet its debt service obligations, nor to contribute to
its investment programs. Rates of return on revalued net fixed assets for
the same period were, respectively, 1.9 percent, 1.5 percent, and 3.7
percent against the agreed 8 percent rate of return under the completed
Andekaleka project (Cr. 817-NAG, closed in September 1986). Return on
assets is presently not a meaningful performance indicator because JIRAMA's
asset base is significantly overvalued due to overinvestment in generating
capacity, a substantial proportion of which still remains unutilized.
Presently, there is a need for a detailed review of JIRAMA's asset base and
for its revaluation and computerization. JIRAMA would prepare and complete
this asset revaluation for IDA review by June 30, 1909.
47.      In addition to inadequate investments and tariff adjustments,
JIRAMA's poor financial situation results mainly from a number of
structural weaknesses that include: (a) accounts receivable from Government
and municipalities represent 12 to 14 months of sales; (b) payables are
high and include about 11.4 months obligations towards SOLIMA for fuel
supplies; (c) a significant portion of other current assets and liabilities
cannot be collected until a trilateral clearance of accounts takes place
among the Government, the municipalities and JIRAMA; (d) JIRAMA's
lightbulb, electrical appliance, and water meter manufacturing subsidiaries
are highly unprofitable; (e) to compensate for operating cash shortfalls,
JIRAMA has had to rely heavily on an overdraft facility with BNI that
carries an annual interest rate of 21 percent; and (f) the Andekaleka
hydropower plant for which most of the long-ternm debt was incurred is
currently operating at only 35-40 percent of its capacity due to lack of
demand in the ICS. In addition, devaluation of the Malagasy currency has
increased JIRAMA's foreign exchange risk exposure.
48.      In order to restore its short and medium-term financial viability,
JIRAMA requires a set of reform measures that would call for a full
financial restructuring including: tariff increases to improve its internal
cash generation and additional capital to strengthen its capital base
throughout the period 1987-92 (paras. 86 and 88); simplification of
existing tariff structure and system (para. 51) for more equity among its
consumers; reductions in its outstanding accounts receivable and payable
through the settling of Government and municipality arrears; restructuring
of JIRAMA's outstanding short and long-term debts to limit payments of debt
service obligations to fixed assets in operation; and increasing use of the



- 13 -
existing hydropower surplus in the ICS through the installation of large
electric boilers, and extension of the distribution system to serve the
unmet demand and enhance JIRAMA's revenues.
49.      The Government has introduced a tariff increase of 17 percent
effective February 1, 1987. The Government has, effective February 1987:
(i) increased .1IRAMA's capital by FMG 7.42 billion; (Li) consolidated FMG
1.73 billion ot JIRIMA's overdraft into a five-year loan; (iii) rescheduled
its outstanding long-term debts relating to the Andekaleka and Namorana
loans in line with the utilization of these assets; and (iv) divested
JIRAMA's lightbulb and electric appliance activities.
50.      Payment to JIRAMA of an amount equivalent to 50 percent of the
aggregate arrears of the Government and the "Collectivites Dacentralisaes"
relating to water and electricity sales, adoption by the Government and the
`Collectivites Decentralisees" of new payment modalities for future
electricity consumption, and the signing of agreed boiler contracts between
JIRAMA and interested enterprises would be conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed credit. The remaining 50 percent of arrears between JIRAMA,
Government and "Collectivites decentralisees" will be settled by September
30, 1987.
51.      Tariff Structure and Policy.  JIRAMA's tariff structure is
complex, cumbersome and costly to administer. There are several hundred
tariffs, and large arbitrary differences exist between them for the same
consumer group in the same supply zone. Tariff levels are historically
based and bear virtually no relation to the cost of s'tpply. A tariff
reform study is required to adjust tariffs closer to economic costs,
introduce incentives to stimulate demand in regions of surplus supply and
simplify tariff structure and administration. The number of tariffs was
recently reduced by 50 vercent, as a first step towards rationalizing
tariff structure. Government and JIRAMA would prepare a tariff study for
IDA review before September 30, 1988, and implement an agreed new tariff
structure by January 1, 1989.
52.      Investment Plan.  JIRAMA's and Government's main objectives for
the power subsector are to; (i) improve the reliability of production and
supply throughout the country at the least cost; (ii) increase the use of
indigenous natural resources for electricity generation wherever
economically justified; (iii) maximize the use of existing low-cost
production capacity; and (iv) improve the financial management of the sub-
sector. Achievement of these objectives would require the preparation.of
an adequate least-cost power system expansion plan and detailed feasibility
studies for economically attractive major power developments. However,
JIRAMA has never prepared a comprehensive least-cost expansion plan as it
lacks experienced personnel, as well as the required supporting facilities
for effective planning. Planning weaknesses have led to overinvestment in
generation capacity in certain regional centers and limited utilization of
available hydropower supply in the main ICS. The most serious problem
arises from the construction of the 58 MW Andekaleka hydropower plant in
the ICS feeding the Antananarivo region. Projected load growth, which
initially justified this investment, did not materialize due to economic
stagnation and abandonment of a number of planned industries. In 1985,
about 64 percent of this plant capacity was unutilized. JIRAMA would
revise its commercial policies to increase household electricity
connections and to promote the use of hydropower electricity wherever
financially and economically justified.



- 14 -
53.      During appraisal, JIRAMA, Government and IDA reached agreement on
reasonable load forecasts based on a tentative minimum Reference Power
Sector Investment Program (RIP) for the period 1987-91, pending the
completion of a least-cost expansion and rehabilitation plan under the
proposed project. The RIP is estimated to cost US$57.5 million including a
foreign exchange cost of US$50 million. No major investment in generation
expansion is envisaged for the ICS for the next seven years, since
installed capacity will continue to exceed demand in peak hours until the
mid-1990s. However, the RIP assumes for the External Zone the construction
of a new diesel power station for the Nosy-Be region required in 1990-91
and a start on the Ambodiroka hydropower project by 1991. Other than these
projects, the RIP emphasizes the rehabilitation of high-priority generation
plants and distribution and transmission systems in major demand centers.
54.      JIRAMA would have the RIP reviewed annually by each September
30th, and revised as appropriate in agreement with IDA, particularly
following the completion of the planned least-cost expansion plan study. In
addition, until the completion of the proposed project, JIRAMA would not
undertake any major investment (i.e., greater than US$2 million or 1
percent of JIRAMA's net fixed assets, whichever is smaller) that is not
included in the agreed RIP unless the economic and technical justification
of such investment is established in consultation with IDA.
Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector
55.      The Bank Group strategy in the energy sector is to: (a) promote
the economic use of indigenous energy resources, power sector efficiency,
and the formulation of comprehensive energy policies leading to rational
energy pricing and import substitution; and (b) enhance the role of the
private sector in energy resource management and development. From 1974 to
1986, the energy sector benefited from about US$64.6 million or 11 percent
of Bank Group financing, of which US$40.6 million was for the Andekaleka
hydropower project financed in 1978, and US$24 million for the two
projects financed in 1980 and 1982 for the petroleum subsector.
56.      The Andekaleka hydropower project partly achieved objectives of:
(a) utilizing an important portion of the country's hydropower resources in
substitution for thermal power generation in the ICE; (b) strengthening
JIRAMA's staff competence in major project design and implementation; and
(c) improving JIRAMA's organizational and managerial practices. But the
project did not achieve its objectives of strengthening planning and of
maintaining a sound financial situation for JIRAMA. Lessons learned from
the project include the need (a) for improved demand forecasting techniques
and market analysis to reduce the risk of premature investments; and (b) to
focus on financial policies designed to foster sustained sound financial
performance. The petroleum exploration promotion project was satis-
factorily completed. The Tsimiroro heavy oil exploration project is still
ongoing. These projects allowed OMNIS to establish an appropriate legal
and fiscal framework for petroleum exploration by foreign oil companies and
to gather the required data base on the subsector for flurther oil
exploration; approximately $220 million in exploration investment has been
made.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.      The proposed project was appraised in February 1986.  A staff
appraisal report entitled "Democratic Republic of Madagascar - Energy
Project" (6405-MAG) dated March 31, 1987 is being distributed separately.
A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from February 24, 1987 through March 2, 1987.
The Madagascar Delegation was led by Mr. Jose Rakotomavo, Minister of
Industry, Energy and Hines.
Prolect Background and Preparation
58.      The objectives of the proposed project were largely formulated and
agreed with the Government during the energy sector assessment carried out
in 1984-85 under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment
program. This assessment was followed up, under the joint UNDP(World Bank
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), by a power sector
efficiency audit study, which helped define all priority infrastructure and
facilities in need of rehabilitation and repair In the power subsector.
The agreed RIP has been framed within the priorities defined by this study.
US$870,000 from the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit has been provided
under two Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advances to finance an
engineering study for the rehabilitation and expansion of the Volobe
hydropower plant damaged by the March 19B6 cyclone; and consultant services
to undertake the detailed preparation of Phase I of the diesel and
hydropower rehabilitation program (para. 76) and the formulation of tho
preventive maintenance program and to assist in the preparation of the
electric boiler program and the establishment of the MIEM PMU project
management unit (para. 77). Detailed specifications and pre-feasibility
and feasibility studies carried out for overall project preparation were
undertaken, under IDA coordination, by consultants financed mostly under
grants provided by several bilateral aid agencies3/ and international
organizations.41
Project Objectives
59.      The proposed operation carries through, at the project level, one
of the central themes of the IDA country strategy: supporting sectoral
strategies aimed at rehabilitating productive infrastructure and
establishing the conditions for long-term growth (para. 25). The main
objectives of the proposed project are to help improve the reliability of
power production and supply throughout the country and the power sector's
financial and operational performance; maximize the efficient use of
locally available and economically accessible energy resources; and
strengthen energy sector planning capability. To achieve these objectives.
the project would: (a) help rehabilitate, maintain and expand the power
generation, transmission and distribution network in order to maximize the
productive use of existing assets; (b) strengthen JIRAMA's planning
capability and prepare a least-cost power system expansion plan; (c)
increase JIRAMA's financial autonomy and strengthen the efficiency of its
31 USAID, FAC, Swedish Agency for International Cooperation ana Swiss
Government.
4/ UNDP and FAD.



- 16 -
management system; (d) increase the use of existing hydropower surplus
capacity and energy in the ICS by expanding the electricity distribution
system and encouraging increases in large-scale industrial consumption of
electricity whenever economically justified; (e) encourage the production
of economically accessible energy resources such as charcoal and rice husk
briquets by the private sector for household and industrial fuels; and (f)
help develop, within MIEM, the capability to prepare and evalL..Le energy
sector policies and inveso;ment plans and programs and to initiate household
energy sector planning.
Project Description
60.      The proposed project would include the following components: (a)
for the power subsector: generation rehabilitation and expansion;
transmission and substation improvement; distribution rehabilitation and
expansion; improvement in general plant and services; power sector
institution building; power sector studies; and an electric boiler program;
and (b) for the energy sector: household and industrial fuels; energy
planning support; and energy sector studies.
Power Sector Components
61.      Generation Rehabilitation and Expansion.  This component  would
include the provision of four 800 KW units for a new Nosy-Be diesel
generating station; and rehabilitation of two priority diesel generating
stations5i as well as other smaller diesel generating stations in the
External Zone, and four hydropower generating stations.61 Restoration of
these plants to full operational capacity would require the pur.hase of
urgently needed spare parts and consumables, and provision of additional
spare parts and required mobile maintenance equipment to ensure adequate
routine maintenance during the project period.
62.      Improvement in Transmission and Substations.  The proposed project
would include the completion of the ongoing rehabilitation of the 63 KV
line between Antananarivo and Antsirabe, the provision of new poles and
lightning protection, and the repair and maintenance of other priority
transmission lines to prevent outages and enable stable long-term
operations. Switchgears and new transformers would also be provided for
substation rehabilitation and to cover system expansion and improve
distribution reliability.
63.      Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion.  Rehabilitation
materials including conductors, pole hardware, and distribution
transformers would be procured under the proposed project to reinforce the
existing distribution system.   The project would also include new
connection materials that would expand the system to supply about 6,500 new
customers per year; there is presently a backlog of about 10,000 new
consumers. A pilot project would also be undertaken to establish revised
design criteria that could eventually reduce the cost of the distribution
system serving households and small commercial consumers.
5/ Mahajunga and the existing Nosy-Be diesel generating stations.
6/ Antelomita, Manandray, Manandona and Mandraka hydropower generating
stations.



- 17 -
64.      Improvement In General Plant and Services.  This component would
include provisions for (a) the purchase of new vehicles and the spare parts
needed for their maintenance over the project period, now tele-
communications facilities for communications between power plants and
supply centers and spare parts for existing telecommunication facilities;
(b) meter testing equipment; and (c) new computer hardware and software
compatible with existing computer facilities. About 7 man-months of
technical assistance would also be provided to review JIRAMA's
computerization policy and planning and to train its staff in computer
maintenance.
65.      Power Sector Institution Building.  About 87 man-months of
technical assistance will be provided as follow: (a) 24 man-months of a
resident consultant advisory service for the Energy Department in MIEM to
help strengthen power sector planning; (b) 27 man-months of back-up
consulting services to strengthen JIRANA's Department of Planning and
Economic Studies and its Department of Electrical Equipment, and provide
on-the-job training in planning, including overseas training and study
tours; and (c) 36 man-months to improve hydropower resource assessment and
development management. Computer hardware and software, as well as
specialized office equipient, would also be provided under the proposed
project in support of planning improvement.
66.      Power Sector Studies.  These would include the preparation of a
rational least-cost power sector master plan including a national power
tariff review, and supplemental funding to complete the feasibility study
for the Ambodiroka hydropower plant. Terms of reference for the hydropower
feasibility study have been prepared and agreed upon with Government.
Terms of reference for the least-cost power sector master plan were
completed in March, 1987.
67.      Electric Boiler Program.  To increase the use of the existing
hydropower surplus within the ICS, about 18 NW of electric boiler capacity,
requiring an annual energy supply of about 96 GWH, would be installed in
four enterprises, which are expected to be PAPNAD (paper mill), Savonnerie
Tropicale (soap factory), SOMACOU (textile factory), and the Hilton hotel.
The proposed project would finance boiler procurement for these
enterprises.
Energy Components
68.      Household and Industrial Fuels.  The proposed project would
attempt to launch commercial production of charcoal from the pine thinning
products of the Haut Mangoro pine plantation and to achieve under a pilot-
scale project the production of about 1,500 tons of rice husk briquettes
per year from the substantial volume of rice husk residues that are
available in the surroundings of Antananarivo. About 30 man-months of
technical assistance as well as production equipment and material would be
provided to train and assist traditional private charcoalers in improving
charcoal production methods and to review the voodfuel business, and
carbonization efficiency. The project would also provide equipment and
consultancy services to commission and monitor rice husk briquette
production.
69.      Energy Planning Support.  This component would include about 63
man-months of technical assistance and consulting services, and computer
equipment and materials to strengthen energy planning and staff training



- 18 -
within MIEM, and about 118 man-months of technical assistance and
consulting services to support the development of household energy supply
and demand management strategies; this work would include the introduction
on a trial basis of various cooking efficiency interventions, and petroleum
supply and distribution studies (para. 34).
70.      Enerrg Sector Studies.  Two energy sector studies would be
undertaken under the proposed prn-jft.  They are: (a) industrial energy
audits to review industrial energy conservation needs and design changes
required to reduce energy costs in manufacturing industries; and (b) a Lac
Alaotra regional energy planning study to prepare a least-cost master plan
for energy development in the Lac Alsotra region. Terms of reference for
these studies were prepared by IDA staff and agreed upon with the
Government during appraisal.
Project Cost
71.      The total project cost for the five-year implementation period
(1987-91) is estimated at FMG 65.5 billion (US$59.8 million) including
foreign exchange costs of FMG 50.0 billion (US$44.8 million) or 71 percent
of the total cost. Baseline costs were estimated at January 1987 prices
and were increased by an average of 6 percent to include physical
contingencies. Price escalation for foreign costs is estimated at 3
percent in 1987, 1 percent in 1988-90 and 3.5 percent in 1991. Local cost
escalation assumes a price inflation of 17 percent for 1986-88 and
15 percent for 1989-91. Adjustments in project cost have been made to
reflect the 20 percent devaluation in August 1986, and an allowance for
further currency depreciation. Local taxes and duties are estimated at
US$8.1 million or 14 percent of total costs. Project costs include US$5.5
million for technical assistance and consultancy services.
Financing Plan
72.      The total foreign exchange cost of the project is US$44.8 million,
of which IDA would finance US$25 million equivalent, and cofinanciers would
finance US$19.8 million. Cofinanciers are the European Investment Bank
(EIB) for US$14.4 million, and the Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique
en Afrique (BADEA) for US$5.4 million. Local project costs total US$15.0
million equivalent of which JIRAMA would finance US$10.5 million equivalent
and GOM US$4.3 million equivalent.  Local funds (US$0.2 million equivalent)
for the electric boiler component would be obtained by the firms concerned.
In addition, financing has been obtained for the balance of the power
subsector RIP which, in addition to the above-mentioned cofinancing,
includes parallel financing by Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) of US$13.5 million, and by the Swiss Government of US$1.5 million.
The IDA Credit
73.      About US$0.9 million equivalent has been provided under Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advances to finance preparation and project
start-up work, and the engineering study for the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Volobe hydropower plant. The advances would be refinanced
from the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit. Out of the US$25.0 million
IDA credit, the Government would (a) onlend to JIRAMA US$17.9 million; and
(b) channel up to US$1.8 million through the National Industrial Bank
(BNI), to enterprises interested in procuring electric boilers and to
private entrepreneurs involved in the lmplementation of the Haut Mangoro
charcoal component.



- 19 -
74.      Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to IDA,
between JIRAMA and the Government would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. This agreement would include a final maturity of 25 years,
including five years of grace, an interest rate 10 percent above IBRD
leanding rate at the time of Board presentation, and the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by JIRAMA.
Project Implementation
75.      Project execution would start in July 1987 and is expected to be
completed in December 1991. Project ManagementrUnits (PMU) would be
established within JIRAMA and MIEM, which would co-ordinate implementation,
with the implementing agencies being the ministries and the parastatal
concerned.
76.      Power Sector Components.  Most of the proposed power subsector
rehabilitation components would be carried out in two phases. The first
phase would include mainly the most urgently required spare parts that are
needed to prevent disruption of the power supply in the short term, and
consultant services to define precisely the rehabilitation needs in the
diesel and hydropower generation areas. The second phase would represent
works and provision of spare parts required to restore the reliability of
the power system in the medium ternm.
77.      The repair and rehabilitation of power facilities would be carried
out primarily by JIRAMA's staff, with support from local contractors.
Consultants would be retained to supervise the management and coordination
of the generation rehabilitation component, and would be under the
responsibility of a Project Manager to be appointed from within JIRAMA.
The formal establishment of a PMU in AIRAMA and the appointment of a
Project Manager woula be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit. For the institution building component, a consulting company would
be retained to provide an advisor to the Planning and Economic Studies
Department of JIRAMA, and to assist with the coordination of back-up
consulting services, and with on-the-job training of JIRAMA's st&ff in
power system planning. Great emphasis would be placed on JIRAMA staff's
direct participation to ensure that they would benefit from appropriate
training during the project period.
78.      The Electric Boiler Program.  This component would be implemented
by the four enterprises concerned (para. 67) with assistance from the
JIRAM& PMU.  Financing for the procurement of the boilers will be channeled
through the National Industrial Bank (BNI). The foreign exchange portion
for the imports of the boilers will come from the proceeds of the IDA
credit (para. 73); and BNI will provide the local currency financing from
its own resources. Each enterprise is willing to install electric boilers
subject to the establishment with JIRAMA of satisfactory electricity supply
contracts. JIRAMA has already provided the enterprises with full
documentation on the technical and financial implications of each boiler
proposal in order to facilitate the negotiation of such contracts. With
assistance from consultants, JIRAMA will help the enterprises to prepare
the required technical specifications and documentation for the procurement
of the boilers and their related ancillary equipment, which would be
grouped in one package.
79.      Energy Components.  The energy components would be implemented by
four departments under three ministries and by the FANALAMANGA parastatal.



- 20 -
The Department of Energy and Water (DEE) within MIEM would be responuible
for the energy planning support component; the Minisetry of Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA) for the rice husk briquetting pilot
project and agriculturdl reeidue resource assesoment; the Department of
Water and Forests (DEF) within the Ministry of Livestock Production,
Fisheries and Forests (MPAEF) for the review of woodfuel business and
carbonization efficiency improvements; and the FANALAMANGA parastatal for
the pine charcoal production component. Each of these departments and
FANALAMANGA would nominate a focal point for communications with the MIEM
PMU for project execution.  The MIEM PMU would be the local counterpart for
IDA and cofiniancing agencies, consultants, and contractors involved in the
implamntation of the energy components and would handle correspondence,
progress reports, proctrement and requests for disbursement. The various
ministries would be assisted by experienced consultants and contractors who
would work under torms of reference or technical specifications
satisfactory to IDA. Accounting for the energy components will be carried
out by the MIEM PHU.  Government would have energy component accounts
audited by independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
80.      Because of the importance of the MIEN PMU role in coordinating and
supervising the implementation of the proposed project, establishment of
the MIEM PMU headed by a Halagasy manager, acceptable to IDA, and staffed
adequately would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Also, following established practice between JIRAMA and MIEM, the MIEM PMU
will review, record, and forward to IDA all project implementation
documentation and disbursement requests for the power subsector components.
The MIEM PHU manager would report to the DEE Director, and would be
assisted in his functions by a steering committee representing the other
implementing ministries, ard the FANALAMANGA parastatal.
81.      Since the Haut Mangoro charcoal production component represents an
opportunity to involve the private sector in the commercial exploitation of
Government-owned timber resources, Government and FANAIAHANGA would
actively seek private sector participation in the implementation of this
component. If by the end of 1987 achievement of full-scale private sector
involvement should fail, a commercial scale pilot project of 5000 tons per
year of pine charcoal production would be financed by IDA through HPAEF and
implemented by FANALAMANGA, which would be adequately equipped and provided
with technical assistanice.
Procurement
82.      The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following table. Many of the items to be purchased from the proceeds of the
propoard IDA credit are proprietary in nature and can be supplied only by
the original manufacturer (e.g. diesel engine parts). The total cost of
these items is not expected to exceed US$2.6 million (about 10 percent of
the credit) and would be purchased directly Vy JIRAMA from the suppliers.
The other materials and equipment financed by IDA would be assembled into
groups of similar iters, and purchased either through international
competitive bidding, following IDA's procurement guidelines, for contracts
valued at or exceeding US$100,000, or under international shopping
procedures for items costing less than US$100,000 for which several
suppliers would be !nvited to submit proposals. Thus, all contracts above
US$100,000 would be subjected to IDA's prior review and approval. Small
civil works would be carried out by local contractors through local



- 21 -
competitive bidding, using procedures satisfactory to IDA. Items of the
projeat financed by other lending agencies would be purchased In accordance
with their respective procurment guidelines. Consultants to be hired
under the proposed project would be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines, end their terms of reference and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to IDA.



- 22 -
PROCUREMENT METHOD/I (US$ millions)
N.1. Consul- Cofinan-
Item                      ICB      LCB   Otherb/   cl  tsntad/   ciers   Total
Power Sector Components
Nosl-Be New Diesel          -      -        -      0.3    -         1.9       2.2
Hydropower Rehab.           2.9    0.5      0.6    0.2    0.2       -         4.4
(2.9)  (0.5)   (0.6)          (0.2)               (4.2)
Diesel Reht.o.              3.2    -        2.0    1.6    0.3       3.5      10.6
(3.2)   -       (2.0)         (0.3)               (5.5)
Transmission                -      -        -      0.6    -         2.5       3.2
Electric Boilers            1.5    -        -      0.2    0.1       -         1.8
(1.5)                         (0.1)               (1.6)
Distribution                3.0    -        -      1.3    -         9.9      14.2
(3.0)                                             (3.0)
Support Servicesel         0.6    -        -       -      0.5       2.0       3.1
(0.6)                         (0.5)               (1.1)
Vehicles                    1.7    -        -      -      -         -         1.7
(1.7)                                             (1.7)
T.A. Planning&/            0.4    -         -      0.3    0.4       -         1.1
(0.4)                         (0.4)               (0.8)
Training                   0.2    -         -      -      -         -         0.2
(0.2)                                             (0.2)
Studies                    -       -        -      0.1    1.1       -         1.2
(1.1)              (1.1)
Subtotal                13.5    0.5      2.6    4.6    2.6        19.8    43.6
(13.5)  (0.5)   (2.6)          (2.6)              (19.2)
Energy Sector Components
Energy Planning
Administration              0.7    -        -      0.5    0.7       -         1.9
(0.7)   -       -             (0.7)      -        (1.4)
Household Energy            0.6    -        -      1.6    1.0       -         3.2
(0.6)                         (1.0)               (1.6)
Energy Production
Charcoale/                 0.7    -        -       0.1    0.3       -         1.1
Rice Husksel  (0.7)           (0.3)               (1.0)
0.2    -        -      -      0.1       -         0.3
(0.2)                         (0.1)               (0-3)
Energy Studies
Industrial energy         -       -       -       -      0.6       -         0.6
-      -       -       -      (0.6)     -        (0.6)
Subtotal                 2.2    -         -      2.2    2.7       -         7.1
(2.2)                         (2.7)               (4.9)
PPF                                                       0.9                 0.9
(0.9)              (0.9)
Overall Totalf/            15.7    0.5     2.6    6.8    6.2       19.8      51.6
(15.7)  (0.5)   (2.6)           (6.2)             (25.0)
a/ Amounts in parenthesis are IDA-financed.
b/  Proprietary spare parts that can only be purchased from manufacturers of
original equipment.
c/  Design and labor to be provided by local implementing agency.
dI  Consulting services retained in accordance with IDA guidelines.
ej  Includes training aids and equipment.
f/  Does not include duties and taxes



_ 23 -
Disbursement
B3.      The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for civil works, imported materials, equipment,
consultancy services and training abroad, and against 80 percent of local
expenditures eligible for IDA financing (in the table on the preceeding
page). All disbursements would be fully documented except that statements
of expenditures (SOE) will be used for all proprietary parts costing less
than US$50,000 and for local civil works. These SOEs will be kept at the
PMUs for verification by IDA supervision missions and by auditors. Funds
for spare parts, materials, equipment and vehicles would be disbursed
mostly in 1988 and in 1989, though high priority items would be received
during 1987. In order to expedite project execution and give the
implementing agencies rarid access to IDA credit proceeds, the Government
will open two Special Accounts at the Central Bank. Account A, for the
MIEM MPU, will have an initial deposit of US$300,000 and Account B, for
JIRAMA, an initial deposit of US$1,000,000. The disbursement schedule for
the proposed project conforms with the standard profile for Bank loans and
IDA credits for power projects in the Eastern and Southern Africa Region.
84.      Conclusion of an intermediary agreement,'acceptable to IDA,
between the Government and BNI, would be a condition of disbursement for
the electric boiler and the Haut Hangoro pine carbonization components.
Under such agreement, BNI would earn a one-time coomission of 0.5 percent
for all funds channeled through it; and the private charcoal companies and
enterprises interested in procuring electric boilers would either bear the
foreign exchange risk with an interest rate equal to the prevailing lending
rate of IBRD multiplid by a factor of 1.1, or the prevailing interest rate
of BNI plus a foreign exchange risk premium of 3 percent per annum.
Establishment of commercial arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, maximizing
the private sector's involvement in the implementation of the Haut Mangoro
pine carbonization component, would be a condition of disbursement for this
component. The closing date for the credit would be December 31, 1992. To
ensure that Government would allow appropriate adjustments in JIRAMA's
tariffs and capital contributions in a timely manner, the proposed project
would be phased into two well-defined investment segments for which
proposed IDA financing would be released as JIRAMA achieves specific agreed
financial performance covenants as described in paras. 86 and 88.
Project Phasing and Financial Covenants
85.      JIRAMA's financial performance will be monitored during project
implementation and by each September 30, an annual review process will be
undertaken jointly by JIRAMA, GOM, and IDA to ensure the company's
sound finarcial position. The review process and associated criteria have
been defined, and are contained in six formal measures, reflected in
financial covenants ard conditions of effectiveness and disbursement.
86.      The first measure establishes that the investments to be financed
by the credit will be phased in two well-defined phases. The magnitude and
required timeliness of the financial measures to be adopted to ensure the
short to medium term financial viability of JIRAMA warrant phasing of the
project. The proposed phasing is in synchrony with the annual in-depth IDA
reviews of JIRAMA's financial performance, which will lead to a
determination of the precise measures to be adopted to meet the performance
criteria required for undertaking the second phase of investment. The



- 24 -
first phase, comprising US$15 million of investments, will be undertaken
upon credit effectiveness, and the second phase of US$10 million will
become eligiBle for financing subject to meeting other specified financial
performance criteria. The financial performance criteria targeted for
effectiveness are: (i) that generation of internal funds is sufficient to
make a positive contribution (defined as one percent) to the investment
program of 1988; (ii) that JIRAMA has at its disposal adequate funds in
1988 to cover the local cost of that year's investment program; and (iii)
that the Government has made a capital increase of at least 4 billion FMG.
For 1988 this is expected to require a tariff increase of not less than 9
percent as of January 18t of that year and a combination of capital
increase and import duty exemption on spare parts and rehabilitation
materials yielding about 7.6 billion FMG.
87.      The second phase of investment will become eligible for IDA
financing when revenue increases and other measures are adopted which will
lead to (1) generation of funds from internal sources sufficient to
contribute not less than 15 percent to the 1989 investment program; (ii) a
debt service coverage ratio for that year of not less than 1.2; and (iii)
definitive resolution of the outstanding issue between the Municipality of
Antananarivo and JIRAHA of disputed ownership of water and electricity
networks and installations. The goods to be included in the proposed
second phase are distribution materials, vehicles, diesel plant spare parts
and computers and related services, which can be easily prepared as
discrete packages for procurement and implementation. Urgently required
spare parts and distribution materials are provided by cofinanciers, or
through parallel donor financing, during the period of the first phase of
the proposed credit.
88.      The second measure, a financial covenant, stipulates that JIRAMA
during each year after 1989: (i) maintain a rate of return of not less than
8 percent on net fixed revalued assets as indicated by the asset
revaluation study whose results would be available by June 30, 1989; (ii)
generate funds from internal sources of not less than 30 percent of the
average of that year's investment program; and (iii) maintain a debt
service coverage of not less than 1.4. The third measure is a covenant,
stipulating that prior to September 30 of each year, GOM will review with
IDA whether JIRAMA would meet the covenant requirement set out as the
second measure above for the ongoing as well as upcoming phase of
Investment. If the review were to show that the requirement would not be
met, JIRAMA and GOM would need to promptly take all necessary measures,
including tariff adjustment, in order to meet such requirements. The
fourth measure is a covenant confirming that JIRAMA will seek IDA approval
for changes in the agreed investment program of any given year if such
changes represent more than the lesser of either 1 percent of JIRAMA's net
fixed assets or US$2 million. The fifth measure is a financial covenant,
whereby JIRAMA agrees that it will not Incur any debt without IDA's
agreement unless reasonable financial projections indicate that the debt
service coverage, including the new debt, will not be less than 1.4 times
in any given year of the projection period. The sixth measure is a
financial covenant, whereby JIRtAMA agrees that it will reduce its accounts
receivable by 1988 and maintain them thereafter at no more than 90 days of
sales and its accounts payable at no more than 90 days of non-payroll cash
operating expenditures.



- 25 -
Protect Benefits and Risks
89.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the proposed project are to allow
the power sector to provide more reliable output; increase the consumption
of the existing hydropower surplus; improve the use of economically
accessible energy resources, and strengthen energy sector planning and
investment programming. These benefits would enhance JIRAMA's revenue
generation, and provide substantial savings in imported fuel oil and coal.
Without the proposed investments, JIRAMA's effective generating capacity
would be gradually eroded, resulting in substantial increases in system
outages and important losses in the production of export goods. The
combination of the electric boiler program, the rehabilitation and
expansion of transmission and distribution facilities, and increases in
consumer connections will utilize a substantial proportion of the existing
surplus hydropower capacity in the ICS. The rehabilitation of the 63 KV
transmission line would contribute to meeting peak demand in the Antsirabe
region.
90.      Economic rate of return.  The calculation of the economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is based on the agreed reference investment
program (RIP) for the power subsector for the period 1987-92. Two major
ERRs have been calculated; the ERR for the entire JIRAMA system is 33
percent and ICS alone is 46 percent. These ERRs are high because of the
distortion in financial prices for key inputs, such as fuel oil, and the
sunk-cost effect of substantial hydroelectric and diesel electric
generating plants which will be used to meet much of the incremental demand
for energy foreseen during the 1987-1992 period.
91.      Project risks.  There is little physical risk associated with the
project because civil works would be minimal. The main risk to the power
subsector components is institutional in nature, as JIRAMA may encounter
difficulty in administering the project, and Government may not promptly
allow required tariff increases. These risks would be minimized by the
employment of consultants to assist in the supervision of the project, by
the conditions tied to the release of proposed credit, and by the
undertaking of joint and regular review of JIRAMA's financial performance.
Cost overruns also represent another financial risk. However, the nature
of the project is such that the works and materials to be purchased could
be reduced in scope with no detrimental effect on the completed portion.
92.      Environmental aspects.  The power subsector components do not
involve any significant negative environmental aspect. The electric boiler
program and the biomass fuel production components would have a positive
impact, by reducing the exploitation of forests in the hinterland of
Antananarivo. Energy components place heavy emphasis on improved
management and efficient utilization of natural forest resources; and the
proposed charcoal component, as envisaged, would displace charcoal produced
from untramelled harvesting of the natural forest with charcoal made from
thinnings and clear-fell smallwood from the Haut Mangoro pine plantation.
The rice-husk briquette pilot project would also examine the commercial
prospect of producing good quality cooking fuels from otherwise discarded
cellulosic residues in substitution of firewood and charcoal.



- 26 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
93.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 9, 1987



-27-                                              ANNEX I
WDAOAcM- flffHhC DSRCA!3N1Page  1  of  3
Mlid-3,116 Pepuletlia (mile.)   IC
16oo Pa. Capita 0W  is WURI     S8
A. hunts of Orgem Dastle Product                          P. GetA Estee (II per aomue)
(free correct priee dante)                                (fern amuSes prig. dat.)
toes     we      1lee     10014    I"Sa     lI'ee          1We-3  aen3-e  togaO-H       iWiop   1low
oreat, geastla Produas e.p.        we0    1oo        me0      10      iO       "a                 ..        a    -1.4      2.2        0.9
M4b at im reat Tame,           11.0    33.4        .        .        .        ..
Aerlcaltura                      . .    ItS3    a6.1    .2.4        4       3.2.                      0.;.  1             9       2.2
*            Iimdemttjt                       ..00,0  201.2     is    18.6    16.4    iLl                    .      1.6    -4.?       LI1      -1.0
Wa u*1c abrufactulrlne)                                    2.
saraiegee.                              47.4    450        4      41.6       42.                       1.0    -.2       15         .
Rmaeurca ft.m.a                   -1.4       -4   -17.1    -4.4      4.8    -4.7                  .
Cuperte ofOam                  15.7    14.9      itO0    ILl11    14.8    1s.1i              -1.       1.0   _lo:;       4.a        II
lmpara of unp                  fl.1    20.9    02.0        20    10.8    11.6                 0.6      2.?   -14.5   '-0.8          7
ImijI lapanilturee               106.41     101    117.1   106.4   106.3   104.7                  ..      1.3    -Li3    11.6        1.6   
Total Comnmaptiif              0.11    89.7    90.8    90.6    01.3    00.6                    .       0.9    -1.5       1.5  -     .
Poulitn Canamptlm.          72.6    72.4    71.4        7.3    77.c    77.7                 ..      0.2    -1.5       1.4      1.2
Genearl  ioerment           2.11    17.8    17.1    135.    18.8    12.e                   3.3      4.3    -1.8       1.0       0.?
Grom. DaMMtLc lmeat.satwe      10.1    14.3   2U.S    13.3          14    14.2                4.2      3.2   -11.6        2       4.6
Plead briassmnt               ..     18.8    n2.m        .       .         .
OMengastoi St"c               .       0.3      0.7       ..       .       ...
Cream Smatis Savins                3.6    10.3       6.1     01.2     1.7      4.5                ..    .4.      10.8    -8.1        8.9
1M1n Factor beam               -4.1    -2.2    -1.4    4.1        4 -.3    -4.6                .
Hot Currant Treamfara            L. .4                     Li1     4.1       ...
Crm"  Rbtianal Saving               ..       ..       6.     6.1,     7.5       ... -n.22                          .1    -3.
In dIliias of LACIJ'              10611    1978    10610    161      I0Sp    1066.
Cat camatmnt 1060 pricsm)                   -
Cream Uomiasti Product           ..       235     60      668      680      66"                         I     -1.41     2.12      0.91
Capacity to xmpa.               12in     lie                WS      a2      4i2               3..4      . -4.7  44       -7      u.s
.16"Mr  if Trada Adjuatment      40       64        0       1o       10      17                .
Creame omeahic Inenc.            ..      so       VWo     us       in0      an                 .       ...    -4.6      o.e       ie
CreamsP' Naiconl Product         ..      62       66       7        7 90                       ..      1.2 *W-3.0       0.9       2.3
Cram. blEat Lnaio                                                as65 60  8  6  36.                        -8.1    -0.6       3.6
C.- PrimO IadiCaa                 1060     io       103     1964    lOge.   long             1965-73  107840  1900-64    LiIMP    time
CAnmuame Prica (IFS H4)            100      172   25.3    225.8        ..       .                 .4     WAi    22.1
Whulamala Prima (IF-S 63)                                                                               lo...  .  . ...
Implicit (W  Oaf late              100    1594.8   103.7     212   2383'    278.9                ..     1.2    21.3         Is      17.3
Implicit lipenditorma DOaf lter    100   1357.6   100.3   207.2   213.    270.6                  ..     11.7    20.5    12.7        11.8
DI. Otuer Indi caters                   2965-73          11173-fl          100-&ISp
Ilates CS P.m.)-~~~~lte.                                                              -
Populatian                               2.4              2.?               3.0          Vitanlm onteconomic ladiscaterm tibiae
Labor Pwart                               ...                                .            haud foil.  thei dtmfingteoa  and
Crmam  National lace.o p.c.       .                       -2.7             -5.5          concepts of th.m Standard Tabias and
Private Conump.tion p.c.        .                        -2.4              -.0.          Standard Attachainta. The 'indicatire
dha l nclude data Sternc the meet,
:aPert Clamilcity:                                                                         ricantly compiatad cmladiar year; (ir
ImOrert (0095) / CDP (NW)                 .2.7                                          fiseal game ink the coam if fijcal yer
Countries). Stiff ecastite nag ha used
tereimmi Sv.ngm Roatin:                                                                    If flail or prealiminary metuale ere nel.
Cries National So.;.m                                                                   ye..pt sal labia. The tea of  Atimatam mad
Cries Ceieatc Swivni                                                                     pailminmftry figoree .1hiold bem indicated
byg-
:cm (peri.Odaveaa:...-
aaeatisatad dt
Aenar if TitalI                  i4ces    ion3    iaw       IOSP                                    p aprelimimarp data
.sherPirVcs int- 
Aericultur.                    88.2    82.0    30.9        Ue
Ind""r                          4.3      8.2     5.9      2.7
Se"kea                         10.8    11.9    18.1        9.2
TotlM
*NOT'E: Certain anomalies in the present tables, possibly including minor incontsistenceies
vis.-8-vis text data. are attributable to the very recent change in format of these
Economic Indicator Tables. - Staff are working to resolve these problems.



-28 -                                                ANNEX I
MOACASA  -  WIlcC POICAT M I*                                         Page  2  of  3
_._.................  _....
Volu ..nd..  (I.O - 1002:                    val  .t Current Prise  (! lIlens 16),I
--------------...... -..--------------_                                          ---- . . ..--     ....  . ....   . ...  ----   .-.---.-...
I. H|erWshudE lee   tt.            130      3632     16331    164      163w     3633    1630      163       163     163       168      1*3
Ce1medit     s I I cu..           10O.0    74.2    72.7    74.0    34.3    72.1           214      120      141       160      104       126
C__dl4g 2    Vaillla             100.0    21.3   23.0   201.7    103.7   165.1            16        3       7a       71        44        UL
cemSI4  3  Clawse                 100.0   240.1    33.2   143.1   334.4   233.7            81      101       32       43        36       30
Cmwmdlw 4                            ..       ..
atr2 m r..                                                                                               ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  27  1as 3  3  2
0iber rpert.                         ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      143      1I0       62      lOg       72        72
Tetel Norchendllj  Eapertm POI     0.O    110.6    1IT.3    I1J.1   105.4   123.0         433      421      351      443      2=1         0
P. Hledetedllee Import.
Few                               100.0   333.5   Uli.a    10.0   120.2   146.3            36       102      33       3O        so        51
PO, end Other Energy              100.0   140.7  U1e.3    13.9   133.2    94.3             70      137      133       133       a5        40
Sib., lmperts
Other Ceneumr Gasd             1O0.0    43.5    16.1    43.3        0.0    43.6         aS       4e       36       47        82        43
Other Xnter.mdinete 0 . 1o00.0    32.7   3s.3    83.2    31.3    44.0                  22       147       146      liO     IoC        lS
Ce;p1el aeedm                  100.0    33.9    27.3    26.6    26.6    30.4           173      146       114      I         66       10L
ToLal Herlbspdile Zweerts CIF     100.0    03.7   4d.1    42.9    42.4          4 49.0    913      676       m         U43    461 -    373
0. Term  S  Trade (1660 - 100)     1660     IO2      1963     1904    169Uw   1966.                  ------         -------_-___   -___________
        __     __       __        _____________ _______- - -- -  -H--  -Hmes
eNot. Eeprt Prism [In-la            100     90.3    61.3    63.1    64.4   101.1
Kent. import. Prime Wade            100       iS     63.8    93.3    61.4    60.3 ente en the Ecomwic Indsetlorm tAkles
Krsebndiso Teem of Trado            100     94.1    64.6 U      .3   16.3   111.3             should follow Om definitions and
cencente of tlhe Sanderd Thles med
OAS   Illimei  (et errent price.):                   Standerd Atecteente. The ildleeoro
------------------------------ ---            hweald include date threadh the   et
H. Slance of Pymante               1i63     19o2     1933    1634    IUSl       lBe           recentil smpleted caelendr yper Car
________-___  __                                         flscel peer in the  aome of fiecel peer
erte of bade e  IFS                541      30       36       373       32      300          cauntrlee. Liff eUetiaeeea    hbe se"d
nerchendlee (FM)                 433      327      310      317      270      239          if findl or prellminery  ectuele ere net
len-FecLor lereic.                62       b3       47      U5        31       C2          yet aveileble. The use at emntimlei  end
preli.rnary figures eheld be indieted
heart. ef Goad. and IFS            10715    4C2        51      490      463      366          by:
Herdendilm  (FOB)                74       AM2      370      33O      326      230
Me-Pester Srwice.                311      21o0     173      1S       137     13                meiltied data
P   P wrelimiry p dto
Re-mrc  BHe lence                  -W7    -272       -164     -113    -1Ul       -q6
Ret Faetor Incm                     -46      -6      -113    -127    -34        -221
(intereet pem  OAS)               27       37       34      37        53
ets Current Trmnearem                4i       n        O0       74      6O        67
(merhere remittonce.)                 0        0        0        0        0        0
Curret Acounet                     -88W  -200        .47    -171       -160
Long-Trm Cepitel Inlow              375      121      167      182      143      134
Direceb Invoieet                   0        0        0        0        0        0
Officiel Cepibtl Orante            0        0        0        0        0        0
Not LT Lonet  (S dew)            357      2D0      163       97       63
Otter LT inflowe (Net)is lB               -36       14   oS           5l
Total Other Ito_m (Net)             233      13        30       25       2e      -24
Fe Start-tr  Ceplel              223      130       30       25       2       -24
CmpieLl FlwN .ElI.                 0        0        0        0        0        0
Errors end O-lairns                0        0        0        0        0        0
Cheag.a   in Net Reserve           -51        4*       21       -7       16      -16
Not Crdit free LF                 46       57        7       I1       -3        3
Otter Rosee. Chenge
C - ndiceate increw-)           -100      -6        14     -24        16     -20
Am  mree of W:
Resourse  alense               -17.1    -96.      -4.6       -5    -5. 6
Int-r_mt Payment.                0.3      1.3      1.2      1.6      2.3
Current Account 1elence          -17    -10.8    -6.7    -7.2    -3 .
lemerendlm Items:
IntrneL' I Remerv   (.,I. U!SS)      6       20       29       Si       4B
isteree, intl. Col (.;i. LoS)         9       20       29       56      41
Offisiel X-ftaO  .LCP-eJUS2)      211.3  346.71    430.5   576.5  632."4
Wad-e R.el Ef N X-ft a.e. I13       10o   117.         B 1  I7C01 300.5  6               _.4  . ---_________________________----- -- -- __
32C (mil io;n of curre,t USl)      326      264      233      2374     2345



- 29 -
ANNEX I
HAAR.  - ICMC    noIcATM
Page 3 of 3
Sht.. of CD  (1)                                   aCreSt Ruto. (in ueruat prie.)
- - ---^ ------------------'----- ----...................'.-..... . ....
1. hips                           1U0      icl      13       19"4     1limp   lou.              III  - U4ie                low      asu
C,rrnt Wedge hi|s*                ........  3.  nU   0o.43    4.73    .1*        ..                     202.3   a 3n7.iIl 13.33
Cupita. Re  ei.     ..              ..       ..       ..       ..       ..                                                    --    -
Caitoil Eaudlur..                 11.13     9.9      9.43     9.11    7.73       ..                       3.13    20o.1     n..
0usrull  fIat                     13.41    I. 11.    3.1    5.41      5.                                -13.1    -4.13   .13.9n
lrfcliul capital Gram"             eu 0      .m      9.13     1.01    o.K        ..    a2m.u                                  o..
Eutrual hrruleig (nut)             6."1    6.45    4.61       .1N    3.7*       ..                       -1.S    4.13  -21.01
Dueatlu Nu-a  Plaune"      lap    11. 5    4.35    31.711    *         1.6       .                      -e20.4r1   7.7r  -i3S
Douesuti Weak  nau nsDlag          0.11    0.36 *.01         4.13     0.01       .                      101.91 -144.43   100.0)
Net Dlabaaroaoatu (ME mlIlie)                    Debt Ostotouodles A Diuhuruod VW5  El .,
J. Eut.rsul Cuplitu Pleov.Dlbt    ----         - ------- --- --                        --- - ---
sud Oeb%rda Nti..l             1wo      313      ls"    is"        n    -  Ieee    Lim0    m2m        iso      a"4       ,lb -low         -
Puble I    Pubiluel turawed LY    ii?      210    I33        07     9e                          u.a im  ino IaZ a        s40
Offclib Cditura                 231      1a        M2      aU      lMS        .       UD     1039    12Y.  14ff    137             .
lblLilse rtl                  36       61       55       41       73       .      2.  O    33       33       407      493
or Wuhich                   1         0     -1        l       -1       3.       0       Al       30                27
ofUkiahMA                   S       M        36       s        3 o  ar         1        1d      217      25       S
lilabtrul                             1         7 n 46            as       ..     40       718  n           1ol    1=.1
Mtr.u  Crudltwa                 126       2S       51       it     .11       ..               si t3    M62      49       al
Supplier.                     62       la        0        2        5       ..     los      197      202      1SO      13
Plasalal Ibrketo              64       10       U         9      -20      ..      171      ae       30       30       307
Prite  n-       saoS   T            ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       .
'e5.  LT                          3Sp       210      me        97      iS       ..      9       a13s    10o    167         2340
No CredIt                          43 e      2        7 r     8        4       ..       S       140     139       13      1.2
Nub Short-Tarm CaputIX             233      ISO       30       25      29       24      2B        or      143       U       86
TItul Incluing IFW & nt ST         on       391      no       142       l"       . .    121     1361    2141      mm       us
uith und WDA Rutle               1960    3o2       1933   14        MAbP    l066.
Suore of TOal Lang-Turu DD        3. 11    1.87    l.a       1.43    1.13
1. 15  ba S of Totl              12.72    11.19   11.66   12.31   13.17         .Duts en the Eenr_ic ludieatare tab3le
. SPA an 3 of Total              15.63   13.06   13.25   13.74   14.3           ....ld fo llw the deE 0inilern  NW
S. IRD5IDA us 2 ot Total                                                                   ceno        of tla SLondord Tublus Ns
Sharu of Total LT Debt lerr.ics                                                             stue'd Attadiuuao. Tha lidlc*ets
1. 1DR   a S or Total             4.72    3.74    3.89    4.44    2.62                      elhwld inlIde Cuts throuch Utu at
2. IDA - S of TOtal               1.80    2.22    3.44    4.03    2.6                       recnntly ru_lte  eslendr year (ar
3. I1I#1DA as  of Total          6.13    1.82       9.2    6.47    1.47                    fiscal year Is the me of fuIscl vaur
countieas). Stf et*laum my ha wand
-to-Erporte  tles                                                                           If final or Prelilinary actual-ae sat
gat__va I shoa . Th. ua of u-sts;e  and
1. Una-Taru DehtjDlorta         34.91  427.62   119.67      6.113  6S9S6                   prellaimnry fires  shd e IndWioes
2. 30 Cradit/Eaporte             e0.-5   13.63    3.093   39.21    48.01                    by -g
3. Shoru-Tar D&eb parta          45.962   227r    40.8   21.00    25.86
4. LT.FWSrT  W/WEporta          24I.50   487 12  5W.    567.32  769.17                                     a a   tlautd 4t.
p - praliainary u ats
D-to-WP Ratieo
1. Lan-Tsro- 0ubL/"              20.35    37.39   63.58   63.58    99.79 
2. 1W Cradit/Wl                   12.6      4.1    4.91    1.23    6.           -
3. Sihrt-Ter DubS/CF              7.29    3.05    6.15        3.6    3.67
4. LT.IWDST 0D60/                 8.320   65.35   75.65   93.41   110.31
CubL Ser.1cu/exporta
1. Publis  Crsntsed LT           1144 I2111         1. J 158   19.71   34.71
2. Pr;.uts No-CarsnatsaC LT
3. Total LT Debt Sorvice         11.44     16.0   21.U    10.71   34.7 
4. LW Resreus"as-* San Chan.
5. lateret Only on ST Debt
6. Total (LT-DU.ST I.E..)----------



- 30 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                     Page 1 of 1
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30  1986)1
Loan or
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose                       Bank       IDA1   Undisbursed
--(US S Millions)------
Fifteen Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                                    32.57  181.43          --
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka Hydroelectric                40.602       0.30
CR  531-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture                   12.00        1.92
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                        20.50        1.51
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTH                  11.50        1.80
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.               2.30        0.57
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting & Audit                      11.50        1.70
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                             20.00        6.60
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II                    15.00        9.90
CR 1249-MAG  19B2   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions                 5.70        0.92
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Exploration         11.50        4.48
CR 1337-MAG  19B2   Madagascar  Lac Alaotra                             18.00       13.65
CR 1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                           25.00        8.80
CR.FO04-MAG  1983   -- -----          ----''---                         20.00        9.00
CR 1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Cotton Development                       7.90        1.78
CR.F008-MAG  1093  "---          ---  ------ ' ------                    9.90        5.20
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar  Urban                                   12.80       12.87
CR 1526-MAG  1984   Madagascar  Cyclone Rehabilitation                  15.00        1.65
CR 1541-MAG  1985   Madagascar  Industrial Assistance                   40.00       28.40
CR.A0070-MAG 1985   Madagascar  Industrial Assistance (SFA)             20.00       15.60
CR 1589-MAG  1985   Madagascar  Irrigation Rehabilitation               12.00       14.08
CR 1661-MH&3 1986   Madagasear  Accounting & Mgtmt Training             10.30       10.30
CR 1694-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Third Railway                           12.00       12.00
CR 1709-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Second Ag. Institutions                 10.00       10.00
CR 1691-MAG3 1986   Madagascar  Ag. Sector Adjust. Credit               20.00       20.00
CR A16-MAG3  1986   Madagascar   U       "      "        "              33.00      33.00
CR 1526-MGA  1986   Madagascar  Cyclone Supplemental                    10.00       10.00
TOTAL                                     32.57  607.93      236.63
of which has been repaid                 6.37    4.37
TOTAL now outstanding                     26.20  603.56
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                --       6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA            26.20  597.16
TOTAL undisbursed                                            236.63
1/ The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ Including a supplemental credit of USS 10 million of 1980.
3| Not yet effective



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Energy Proiect
I.        Time-table of Key Events:
a.    Time taken to prepare the project:         Six months (Dec.1985-
May 1986)
b.    Agencies which have prepared               JIRAMA; MIEM; MPARA;
the project:                             FANALAMANGA
c.    Date of identification mission:            June 1985
d.    Date of appraisal mission:                 June 1986
e.    Date  f negotiations:                      February/March 1987
f.    Planned date of credit effectiveness:    August 1987
II.      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The subsidiary loan agreement on behalf of
the Government and JIRAMA will be executed
(para. 74);
(b) The MIEN and JIRAMA Project Management
Units will be established and staffed and
respective PMU managers appointed (pars. 80);
(c) 50 percent of the aggregate arrears between
JIRAMA, GON and "Collectivites d&centralisies'
will be settled (para. 50);
(d) JIRAMA's capital will be increased by FMG
4 billion (para. 86);
(e) Government will take and communicate to
JIRAMA a decision to rake, effective January 1,
1988, a tariff increase of not less than 9 percent and
a combination of capital increase and import duty
exemption on spare parts and rehabilitation materials
to ensure that during 1988 JIRAMA will (i) generate
from internal sources not less than 1 percent of its
investment program for FY88; and (ii) have at itd
disposal adequate funds to cover the local expenditure
requirements of its investment program (para. 86);
(f) Contracts between JIRAMA and boiler users will
be signed (para. 50); and



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(g) New payment modalities for electricity bills for
Government and 'Collectivitis d6centralis6es" will
be implemented (para. 50).
Conditions of Disbursement
(a) Before Phase II of the investment program becomes
eligible for financing, JIRAMN and the Government will
take the necessary tariff, capital increase and other
measures so that for 1989, based on reasonable
financial projections acceptable to IDA, internal
sources can be expected to contribute not less than 15
percent to JIRAMA's 1989 investment program; and
JIRAMA will be able to maintain a debt service coverage
of not less than 1.2. In addition, the issue of
ownership of all water and electricity networks and
Installations operated by JIRAMA will be resolved in a
definitive manner (para. 87);
(b) An intermediary agreement satisfactory to IDA will
be executed by the Government and BNI for the electric-
boiler and the Haut Hongoro pine carbonization
components (para. 84); and
(c) Government will mike commercial arrangements, for
the exploitation for charcoal production of
FANALAAMNGA'S pine smallwood satisfactory to IDA
(para. 84).
IV. Special Conditions
(a) The remaining 50 percent of arrears between
JIRAMA, GOM and *Collectivites decentralisees will be
settled by September 30, 1987 (para. 50);
(b) Government and JIRAMA will prepare a tariff study
for IDA review before September 30, 1988, and implement
an agreed new tariff structure by January 1, 1989
(para. 51);
(c) The RIP will be reviewed annually on each
September 30, and revised, as appropriate, in agreement
with IDA; and JIRAMS will not undertake any major
changes in its investment program (i.e. in excess of 1
percent of its net fixed assets or US$2 million
whichever is smaller), that is not included In the RIP
unless the economic justification of such investment
has been established in consultation with IDA
(para. 54);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
page 3 of 3
(d) JIRAMA will not incur any medium or long-term debt
without IDA's prior approval, unless reasonable
projections indicate that the debt service coverage
ratio, including the new debt, will not be less than
1.4 times in any given year of the projection period
(para. 88); and
(e) By each September 30, the Government, JIRAMA and
IDA will undertake an annual review of JIRAMA's
financial performance to ensure that agreed financial
covenants are met in any given year during the project
implementation period (para. 85).



MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION UNES
Power Stations:                         Transmission Unes:               AN-B                       A vca2r
*    Hydro                                  --  20kV                        A Ambanp
A     Diesel                                      35kV                           ANTSERANANA
63kV
Installed Capacity: 
*   A   '_500kW                                               Analaa A
*   A   500-1000kW                                                    AAn sohiyh h
*   A   1000-5000kW                                                  A AAnahidrano                       A
U   A    ~~~~~~ooo~~~~w ~A                                                        tu. I
* *  >5000kW                                            p   .L S. !Stn
Mahajanga A        pot.E.. A
AMaravoay An'Fo I,                                                            I
MAHAJANGA                 r :                         A  u
A AlBoeny!f
Mawyatanana A             %Soarawan A    A SadWa
|  M rtionoA r  <        r 
*                     U    kYobe      j    TOAMASINA
(         ./          ANTANANARIVO              I
TLnomrdwy      .uA



4         J          ANTANANARIVO
Tskanmmndi*  4A                        1
             Ulauinarivo Al        iS;nCr
AMiandrivazo         FaralArna1oAn y             An aft
Beal-Tairibihina- AL                      i
Uorondava A                           ',
AmbatofinandrahanA     Ambositra                            Cawal
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rh
- _. _   Faflhry Bndari
,Jt             + ~~~~Ahmaso
j         fi~~~amarants  aiNvnworna
/ Manan                     r%        A uy                                     
/M oAmbaIsvuo                                                                     1  _1
FIANARANTSOA            A m5ws 
TOLIARA        (
A nIahvga.
Toilers                                  atngk)     Yndrao A                      Z-  E            TJW
A~~~~~~~~~~~
Hetiokyr                                  V                        r_1                     
-w                                                                                        ZDABAIDA()  -L
at                                                       B.                                     flW \     ,,    E
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>    *- 1s 
ATaolagnam              SOUT AENICA
0
m                                                                                                                                          -
, .t ... . . .. 41l ., a
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                           I



