Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1787 MAG
Project Agreement
(Energy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY (JIRAMA)
Dated August 20, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1787 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY (JIRAMA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Democratic Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nineteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
19,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that JIRAMA agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and JIRAMA, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to JIRAMA on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS JIRAMA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following term has the following meaning: "FY" means the fiscal year of JIRAMA 
starting on January 1 of each year and ending on December 31 of each year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) JIRAMA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part I of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of carrying into effect Part III of the Project, JIRAMA 
shall enter into agreements with the beneficiaries referred to in Part III of Schedule 
2 to the Development Credit Agreement; such agreements to specify the respective 
obligations of JIRAMA and the beneficiaries in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. JIRAMA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part I of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. JIRAMA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) JIRAMA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b)
JIRAMA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by JIRAMA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) By September 30, 1988, JIRAMA shall complete and furnish for 
review and comment to the Borrower and the Association the results of the tariff study 
to be carried out under Part I.F of the Project.
(b)
By January 1, 1989, JIRAMA, shall commence the implementation of the 
reform of the tariff structure, as judged satisfactory by the Borrower and the 
Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and operations of JIRAMA
Section 3.01. JIRAMA shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and public utility practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. JIRAMA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. JIRAMA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) JIRAMA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
JIRAMA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
JIRAMA shows that the projected internal cash generation of JIRAMA, for each FY during 
the term of the debt to be  incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the projected debt 
service requirement of JIRAMA during such FY on all debt of JIRAMA including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall take, from 
time to time, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including but not limited to 
adjustments of its tariffs for the sale of electricity) as shall be required to 
achieve during FY 1988 and 1989 an internal cash generation of not less than 1.2 times 
the projected debt service requirement of JIRAMA for any such FY; such ratio to be 1.4 
for the years 1990 and thereafter.
(c)
Before September 30 in each of its FYs, JIRAMA shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by JIRAMA and satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy 
of its tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in the preceding paragraph (b) in 
respect of any such FY and the next following FY, and shall furnish to the Association 
a copy of such review upon its completion.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of JIRAMA maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or further 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date, and to the extent, 
the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under 
a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has 
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt shall be 
outstanding.
Page  4
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of JIRAMA" means gross revenues 
of JIRAMA 
from all sources, less all operating expenses of JIRAMA, 
including expenses 
accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes 
(or payments in lieu of 
taxes), but before provision for depreciation 
of assets and interest and other 
charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(v)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by JIRAMA 
in the FY 
in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which both 
the Association 
and JIRAMA accept as reasonable and as to which the 
Association has notified 
JIRAMA of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
JIRAMA.
(vi)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt or, with absence of such rates, on the 
basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall 
take all necessary steps within its power (including but not limited to adjustments to 
its tariffs for the sale of electricity) as shall be required to provide JIRAMA with 
net operating income sufficient to: (i) yield a rate of return on the value of its net 
fixed assets of not less than eight percent (8%) during FY 1990 and each following FY; 
and (ii) generate funds adequate to cover thirty percent (30%) of the average of the 
investment program for the current and next following FY during FY 1990 and 
thereafter.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the net 
operating 
income of JIRAMA for the FY in question to the average of 
the values of the 
net fixed assets of JIRAMA at the beginning and at 
the end of that year;
(ii)
the term "value of the net fixed assets" shall mean the gross book 
value of 
fixed assets used for electricity supply operations, 
including any buildings 
primarily used as offices for such operations, 
excluding work in progress, 
less the amount of accumulated  
depreciation, to be revalued annually in 
accordance with 
methods of revaluation acceptable to the Association;
(iii)
the term "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
 
(A)
gross revenue from electricity operations, including rents 
from meters, 
and excluding interest on investments and other 
income applicable to 
operations or activities which are not 
electricity supply related; and
(B)
the expenses related to electricity operations, including:
 
(1)
operation, maintenance and administration expenses;
 
(2)
the costs of experimental and general research work 
for the 
electricity industry and of preliminary 
surveys, plans and 
investigations of electricity 
utility projects which do not prove 
to be feasible and 
are abandoned;
Page  5
(3)   taxes, including income taxes related to net operating 
income; and
 
(4)
the allowance for depreciation, applied to the gross 
book value 
of fixed assets as revalued pursuant to 
subparagraph (b) (ii) of 
this Section.
 
(iv)
Interest and other charges on debt are not to be deducted as 
expenses under 
subparagraph (b) (iii) (B) of this Section, but the 
amount of such charges 
related to electricity supply operations 
shall be taken into account in 
calculating the amount of "income 
taxes related to net operating income" under 
such subparagraph.
 
Section 4.04. By June 30, 1989, JIRAMA shall complete and furnish to the 
Association a complete revaluation of JIRAMA's asset base.
Section 4.05. (a) Without the prior approval of the Association, JIRAMA shall 
not change its investment program, as agreed upon with the Association, and/or make 
any additional investment not contained in such investment plan, if any such new 
investment would be in excess of: (i) the value of one percent (I%) of JIRAMA's net 
fixed assets as defined in Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; or (ii) the 
equivalent of $2 million; whichever is the smaller.
(b)
By September 30 of each year of execution of the Project, JIRAMA shall 
revise its investment program, as such revisions have been approved by the 
Association.
Section 4.06. JIRAMA shall take all measures necessary to ensure that: (i) its 
accounts receivable shall be collected within 90 days from the billing date; and (ii) 
its accounts payable for non-payroll cash operating expenditures shall be payed within 
90 days from the incurrence of any such expenditure.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
JIRAMA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in subparagraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify JIRAMA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
Page  6
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For JIRAMA:
Boite Postale 200
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:
Telex:
 
JIRAMA
22235
Antananarivo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of JIRAMA may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and JIRAMA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY
By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
Authorized Representative
