O)CUMENT
CREDIT NUMBER 1787 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          O, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1787 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 20, 1987, between DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrtwer) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from European Invest-
ment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to
fourteen million four hundred thousand dollars ($14,400,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement);
(C) the Borrower intends to contract for Banque Arabe
pour le D6veloppement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) a loan (the
BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent to five million four hundred
thousand dollars ($5,400,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and BADEA;
(D) by agreement, dated December 20, 1985, the Borrower has
received from the Government of Switzerland a grant to assist in
financing Part A of the Project;
(E) part of the Project will be carried out by Jiro Sy Rano
Malagasy (JIRAMA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to JIRAMA part
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and JIRAMA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective  meanings   therein  set   forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and JIRAMA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and JIRAMA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "Special Account" means any of the special accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 1, 1986, and
October 15, 1986, and an exchange of letters dated November 8,
1986, and January 7, 1987, between the Borrower and the
Association;
(e) "MIEM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry,
Energy and Mines;
(f) "JIRAMA" means Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy, the Malagasy
Electricty   and  Water   Corporation,   created  by   Ordonnance
No. 75-024 of the Borrower, dated October 17, 1975;
(g) "BNI" means Bankin' ny Indostria, established pursuant
to Ordonnance No. 76/047 of the Borrower, dated December 27,
1976;


﻿-3-
(h)  "Intermediary Agreement" means the agreement Lo be
entered into by the Borrower and BNI in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; and
(i)  "FANALAMANGA" means Fambolen-Kazon' Analabe-Moramanga,
a  Sociftf  d'Economie Mixte, established    pursuant to   ArrAt6
No. 1731 of the Borrower, dated May 16, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special accounts (Special
Account A and Special Account B) in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, Special Account A and Special Account B shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid,: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part II of


﻿- 5 -
the Project through MIEM with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause JIRAMA to perform, in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the
obligations of JIRAMA therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable JIRAMA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c)  The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to and withdrawn under Categories (1) and (2)
of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement to
JIRAMA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JIRAMA, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include a
final maturity of 25 years, including five years of grace, an
interest rate of 8.7% per annum and the foreign exchange risk to
be borne by JIRAMA.
(d) For the purpose of carrying out Parts II.G (b) and III
of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an intermediary
agreement with BNI under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association for the purpose of making avail-
able the proceeds of the Credit allocated to and withdrawn under
Categories (4) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement to private charcoal companies involved in the
carrying out of Part II.G (b) of the Project, if applicable, and
the beneficiaries referred to in Part III of the Project; such
agreement to provide for a commission payable to BNI of 0.5% of
any amount passed on by BNI to any such beneficiary and the
applicable lending terms of BNI.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Intermediary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower


﻿- 6 -
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or Intermediary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f)  Without limitation on the generating of paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary,
including the authorization of the adjustments of JIRAMA's
tariffs or increase of JIRAMA's capital, if necessary, to enable
JIRAMA to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and      servicts, plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and  land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part I of the Project shall be
carried out by JIRAMA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) By December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for comment a draft contrat plan to be
entered into by the Borrower and JIRAMA, establishing performance
criteria and objectives for JIRAMA for the next five years, in
the context of the Borrower's overall objectives regarding elec-
tricity, and specifying the mutual obligations to achieve
JIRAMA's financial autonomy and a high standard of JIRAMA's
services at least cost.
(b) By June 30, 1988, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association the final contrat plan, entered into by the Borrower
and JIRAMA.
Section 3.05. By January 1, 1988, the Borrower shall make
effective an adequate increase of electricity tariffs for JIRAMA
and make an adequate capital contribution to JIRAMA to ensure
that: (i) during FY 1988, JIRAMA will generate from internal
sources not less than 1% of its investment program for FY 1988;
and (ii) JIRAMA will have at its disposal adequate funds to cover
the local expenditure requirement of such investment program.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.06. By September 30, 1987, the Borrower shall pay
to JIRAMA the remainder of all arrears of the Government and the
collectivit6s d6centralis6es reltting to water and electricity
sales.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained   records  and  accounts   adequate  to   reflect,  in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts II and III of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for
Special Account A for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Associat* n, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-8 -
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) JIRAMA shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that JIRAMA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Ordonnance No. 75-024 of October 17, 1975 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
JIRAMA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of JIRAMA or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-9-
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph. (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan or the EIB Loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the BADEA Loan Agreement or
the BIB Loan Agreement; or
(B) the BADEA Loan or the EIB Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspensiou, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.


﻿-10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and JIRAMA in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) the agreements referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement have been entered into by JIRAMA and the
beneficiaries referred to in Part III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01 (b)
of the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower has made a capital contribution to
JIRAMA of at least FMG 4 billion, and has furnished evidence
to the Association of its decision to make the tariff increase
and capital contribution referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement;
(d)  the Borrower has established and staffed a project
management unit in MIEM and has appointed a project manager with
adequate qualifications and experience;
(e) JIRAMA has established and staffed a project management
unit and has appointed a project manager with adequate quali-
fications and experience;
(f) an amount equivalent to 50% of the aggregate arrears of
the Government and the collectivit6s d6centralistes, relating to
water and electricity sales, shall have been paid to JIRAMA, and
the Borrower has made effective electricity payment modalities to
be followed by the Borrower and the collectivit6s d6centralis6es
such modalities to be acceptable to the Association; and
(g) all   conditions  precedent  to   effectiveness  of  the
BADEA Loan and the EIB Loan, other than effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by JIRAMA, and is legally binding upon JIRAMA in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and JIRAMA, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and JIRAMA in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the pro-
visions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which this
Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20 years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare aupr6s de la Pr6sidence
de la Rpublique charg6 des Finances
et de 1'Economie
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              224889
Antananarivo


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
JIRAMA
(1) Part I of the
Project,
Phase I:
(a) Equipment,            3,180,000        100% of foreign
materials,                            expenditures and
vehicles and                          80% of local
spare parts                           expenditures
(b) Civil works             560,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants'          1,600,000        100%
services and
training
(2) Part I of the
Project,
Phase II:
Equipment,           6,710,000        100% of foreign
materials,                            expenditures and
vehicles and                          80% of local
spare parts                           expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
Borrower
(3) (a) Equipment,               590,000        100% of foreign
materials,                            expenditures and
vehicles and                          80% of local
spare parts                           expenditures
for Parts II
G (a), H and
I of the
Project
(b) Consultants'          2,390,000        100%
services for
Parts II G (a),
H and I of the
Project and
training
FANALAMANGA and/or
private charcoal
companies
(4) Equipment,                   340,000        100% of foreign
materials,                                 expenditures and
vehicles and                               80% of local
spare parts                                expenditures
for Part II
G (b) of the
Project
Beneficiaries
under Part III
of the Project
(5) Civil works for              860,000        100% of foreign
Part III of                                expenditures
the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR lquivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Refunding of                 690,000        Amount due pur-
Project                                    suant to Section
Preparation                                2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                    Agreement
(7) Unallocated                2,880,000
TOTAL               19,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 400,000 may be made in
respect of Category (1) (a) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1986.
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 2
unless:
(i)  the issue of ownership of all water and electri-
city networks and installations operated by JIRAMA
shall have been resolved in a definitive manner;


﻿- 16 -
(ii) JIRAMA shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Association and on the basis of reasonable
forecasts for FY 1989 that:
(A) JIRAMA's tariffs are adequate to achieve,
during FY 1989, an internal cash generation
as stipulated in Section 4.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement; and
(B) JIRAMA shall, during FY 1989, generate from
internal sources not less than 15% of its
investment program for 1989;
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Cate-
gory (4) unless the Association has been satisfied that adequate
arrangements, including financing arrangements, have been made
for the exploitation of charcoal production of FANALAMANGA's
small pine wood waste resources, and
(d) payments made for expenditures in respect of Cate-
gory (5) unless the Intermediary Agreement has been executed
by the Borrower and BNI in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen energy
planning and investment programming of the Borrower, to improve
the soundness of financial management of JIRAMA to expand the
access to electricity by the population, to stimulate the
efficient use of locally available and economically accessible
energy resources, and to maximize productive use of existing
infrastructure in the energy sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part I:   Power Component
A.   Generation Rehabilitation and Expansion:
Rehabilitation and expansion of the diesel generating sta-
tion of Nosy-B6; repairs to the diesel plant in Mahajanga,
Nosy-BA and some smaller stations, rehabilitation of the
hydropower generating stations of Manandona, Mandraka,
Antelomita, and some smaller hydropower generating stations,
and provision of spare parts.
B.   Transmission and Substations:
Provision of equipment, including lightening arrestors,
transformers, switch gear and spare parts, and completion of
the rehabilitation of the 63-kV line between Antsirabe and
Antananarivo.
C.   Distribution:
Provision of materials and spare parts for all major
centers.
D.   General Plant and Services:
Provision of about 100 vehicles, communication systems,
monitoring equipment for diesel plants, new facilities for
the meter laboratory, computers for reorganization of


﻿- 18 -
computerized consumer billing and carrying out of an asset
revaluation analysis.
E.   Power Sector Institution Building:
Provision of technical assistance for planning and manpower
training and development and for hydro-power resource
assessment and development.
F.   Power Sector Studies:
Carrying out of least-cost-expansion-planning studies and
tariff studies for the entire public power supply system and
a hydropower feasibility study.
Part Il: Energy Component
G.   Household and Industrial Fuels:
(a) Provision of technical assistance and equipment to
improve   the  charcoal   production  and   rice  husk
briquetting.
(b) Provision of equipment to private charcoal companies
and/or FANALAMANGA for the production of charcoal from
pine thinnings at the Haut Mangoro pine plantation.
H.   Energy Planning Support:
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, including
computer equipment, and materials to strengthen the energy
planning and administrative capacity of MIEM and to support
the development of household energy supply and demand
management.
I.   Energy Sector Studies:
Carrying out of energy audits, preparation of energy
efficiency  investment  programs, and   a  regional energy
planning study for the Lac Alaotra region.


﻿- 19 -
Part III: Electric Boilers Component:
Installation of electric boilers for PAPMAD, SOMOCOU,
Savonnerie Tropicale, and the Hilton Hotel.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto,
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Proprietary spare parts may be purchased directly from
suppliers of such spare parts.
3.   Minor civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of the Borrower's Decree 70-089 of January 28, 1970,
provided, however, that:
(a) registration of bidders in the Registry of Commerce
shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
(b) no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection
of all bids;


﻿- 21 -
(c) bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives should be allowed to be present; and
(d) no special preference will be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 22 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower or JIRAMA in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower or JIRAMA shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment  shall  be  satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   Definitions for the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) For the purposes of Part A of this Schedule:
(i)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts II and III of the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Catego-
ries (3), (4) and (5), in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that disbursements out of Categories (4)
and (5) are subject to fulfillment of conditions
of disbursement set forth in subparagraphs 3 (c)
and (d) of Schedule 1; and
(ii) the term "Authorized Allocation A" means an amount
of $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into Special Account A
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
(c) For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule:
(i) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Part I of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories
(1) and (2), in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however,
that disbursements out of Category (2) are subject
to fulfillment of the condition of disbursement
set forth in subparagraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1; and
(ii)  the term "Authorized Allocation B" means an amount
of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit


﻿- 24 -
Account and deposited into Special Account B
pursuant to subparagraph 8 (a) of this Schedule.
PART A
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received satisfactory evidence
that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of
Authorized Allocation A and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
Authorized Allocation A, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account A for Eligible Expen-
ditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under respective Categories (3), (4) and
(5), and in respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special
Account A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request  showing   that  such  payment  was  made   for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall be made


﻿- 25 -
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with   the   provisions   of   paragraph   (a)  of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (3), (4) and (5) for Parts II
and III of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse made
by the Association, and of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association, pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts II and III of the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (3), (4) and (5) for Parts II and III of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special
Account A as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilizedin making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A: (i) was made* for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account A shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the


﻿- 26 -
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.
PART B
7.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
8.     After the Association has received satisfactory evidence
that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of
Authorized Allocation B and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
Authorized Allocation B, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account B such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account B at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account B such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account B with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account B for Eligible Expen-
ditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under respective Categories (1) and (2)
and in respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
9.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special
Account B for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 8 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
10. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 8 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account B sha.1l be made


﻿- 27 -
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with   the   provisions   of   paragraph   (a)  of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (2) for Part I of
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation, and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tIon 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Part I of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) through (2) for Part I of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account B as of
the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
11. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account B (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account B shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be


﻿- 28 -
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


