CIRCULATING COPY
FILE        COPY.                   JO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1508-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD IMPORTS PROGRAM
September 23,1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/
(As of September 3, 1974)-
Currency Unit        =    Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
US$1.00              5    Tk. 8.2
Tk. 1                     US$0.122
Tk. 1 million        =    US$122,000
US$1 million              Tk. 8,200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 maund                   82.3 lbs.
37.3 kgs.
1 bale                    400 lbs.
181 kgs.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
ADP       -    Annual Development Plan
BADC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BSIC      -    Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
CCIE      -    Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
TCB       -    Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
TSP       -    Triple Super Phosphate
SARP      -    Special Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
FISCAL YEAR
Ends June 30
The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677 to the pound sterling.    The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and as a consequence the
Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used in
preparing the data for the report is Tk. 7.9 to US$1, the rate pre-
vailing at the time of appraisal of this Credit.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
THIRD DIPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation in justification of
program lending to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$75 million during 1974/75, on standard IDA terms, to help finance the
foreign exchange costs of an imports program to increase agricultural and
industrial production through better utilization of existing capacity.
Since, in the absence of final ratification of the Fourth Replenishment
Agreement, the amount of funds available to IDA remains seriously constrained,
the draft Development Credit Agreement distributed for approval today is for
the equivalent of US$50 million only. As soon as the Fourth Replenishment
Agreement becomes effective I intend to recommend an amendment to this
Agreement increasing the credit amount to US$75 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455a-BD, dated July 31, 1974)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic updating
mission was in the field in August/September, 1974 and its report is
expected shortly. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        The Basic Economic Report describes the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlines a course of action to maximize the country's
limited development prospects. The high ratio of population to natural
resources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weakness of the administrative and institutional framework lead the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP over the next five years of between
2 and 3.5% per year only, the variation within that range depending on the
appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of aid. This compares
with an expected population growth of about 3% per year so that, even under
the most optimistic assumptions, per capita GDP - already one of the lowest
in the world - is not likely to rise by more than 0.5% per year during the
period ending in 1977/78.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by
massive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastations of the
cyclone of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts
of food aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, vital port, road
and rail facilities were brought back into operation, a new constitution



-2-
was adopted, and the first national elections, held in March 1973,-brought
Sheik Mujibur Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming
parliamentary majority.
5.        But such achievements pale in the face of the problems which
remain to be solved. The country is-desperately poor, with a per capita
income of only about US$70, and overcrowded, with more than 1,400 people per
square mile. Continued population growth puts ever-increasing strains on
a nation already lacking most basic resources. Bangladesh remains extremely
vulnerable to the devastations of both drought and flood. External assistance
has declined to a level considerably below the initial infusions of aid.
Stocks of raw materials and spare parts are very low, many staple consumer
items continue to be scarce or simply not available, and inflationary pressures
are a serious continuing problem. Law and order deteriorated in both rural
and urban areas during 1973/74, leading to the declaration of a State of
Emergency towards the end of April 1974.
6.        With the attention of policy-makers focused on the immediate short-
term needs and on the preparation of the First Five Year Plan, many funda-
mental policy decisions concerning such issues as pricing of external re-
sources and capital and the widespread subsidies, on which realization of
the Plan itself was based, were not taken. Drought and other natural factors
also undermined recovery efforts, bringing 1972/73 per capita GDP down to
80-85% of 1969/70 levels. Despite substantial increases in production during
1973/74, standards of living are still lower now than in 1969/70.
7.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt by
the adverse shift in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced during
1973/74.  For Bangladesh the impact has been severe.   As discussed in more
detail in paragraph 14 below and in Annex V, while the average prices of
Bangladesh's imports rose by some 65%, the average price of exports rose by
less than 6% and export volumes did not reach projected levels, so that the
gap between foreign exchange expenditures and receipts widened rapidly.
Early in the summer of 1974, Bangladesh sought assistance from a number of
donors to ease this crisis and asked the Bank to form an Aid Group to raise
additional resources. The already critical balance of payments situation was
made far worse when floods of record levels struck the country in July and
August 1974, inflicting widespread human misery, decreasing crop production
and increasing the need for food imports.
8.        Bangladesh is thus in an extremely difficult situation.   While
import prices have risen much faster than export prices, Bangladesh, as
the paragraphs below indicate, remains dependent on substantial food imports
even in years of favorable weather. Meanwhile its volume of jute exports
has stagnated and will perhaps decline. As a consequence, the import-
dependent industrial sector is starved for raw materials and spare parts
and musz o'erate well below capacity. Alternative measures to cope with
the present situation wil- be reviewed with Bangladesh in the context of the
Aid Group meeting. Nevertheless, it seems clear that regardless of the



- 3 -
policies adopted, Bangladesh will depend for the foreseeable future on sub-
stantial quantities of aid, especially program aid.
Agricultural Production
9.        The gravest problem confronting the Government has been, and is,
the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the crop of December
1971 was disrupted by the war. Large-scale foodgrain imports of about
1 million tons during the first six months of 1'72 prevented famine.    Im-
ports continued at record levels during 1972/73, but as the Table below
indicates, drought reduced local production of rice, so that estimated per
capita foodgrain availabilities remained well below 1969/70 levels. This,
combined with internal transport difficulties, and smuggling of foodgrains
into India, led to a 50% rise in food prices over the year. Foodgrain pro-
duction in 1973/74 reached a near record of about 11.8 million tons, an
increase of about 18% over 1972/73 levels, due primarily to very favorable
weather and continued increases in the use of high-yielding varieties.
Foodgrain production, however, was still substantially below the target
of 12.6 million tons and even slightly below the record 1969/70 crop. In
part the production shortfall was due to severe shortages. of fertilizer.
FOODGRAIN PRODUCTION. IMPORTS AND AVAILABILITY
1969/70    1972/73     1973/74
Production (mn. tons)                11.9        10.0       11.8
Net available (mn. tons) /a          10.7         9.0       10.6
Imports (mn. tons)                    1.5         2.8        1.7
Total available (mn. tons)           12.2        11.8       12.3
Total available per capita           17.1        15.4       15.6
(oz. per day)
/a   Excluding seed, feed and waste; excludes changes in stocks,
accurate data for which are not available.
10.       In spite of the increase in foodgrain production in 1973/74, sub-
stantial foodgrain imports were required both because production was not
as great as anticipated and because the Government's domestic rice procure-
ment program had little success, leaving the public rationing system almost
entirely dependent on impor:ed supplies. The failure of the domestic pro-
curement program was due both to the Government's lack of experience and
late start in procurement and to the difficulties inherent in such a program.
Buildup of domestic stocks ¾y farmers, hoarding by dealers and smuggling con-
tinued to reduce the amount_ available on the open market.    As a result, the
domestic price of rice rose rapidly _n the early months of 1974, from Tk. 87
per maund (US$0.13 per lb.) in Januarv to Tk. 13G per maund (US$0.20 per lb.)
in April. The Government, n respons&-, niaced orders for large amounts of



-4-
foodgrain (wheat) imports at prices some 90W higher thani the previous year's.
The composition of available aid was suclh that mauch of these imports had to
be financed from the Government's own cash resources.     When the Government
realized in, May 1974, the effect these orders were having on their foreign
exchange situation, many orders were postponed. The result was that food
imports in 1973/74 amounted to about 1.7 million tons, significantly below
1972/73 imports, but requiring much more of the nation's cash foreign ex-
change reserves than had been expected. With the flow of food imports cut
down, Government stocks were not built up and it appeared that substantial
foodgrain imports would be required in 1974/75 even before the recent floods.
The floods have had at least two adverse effects: first, the aus and aman
harvests will be lower than expected by perhaps 0.9-1.1 million tons and,
second, the offtake from the import-dependent rationing system has risen
dramatically as food has been provided to flood victims who normally would not
be under the rationing system. The Government has launched a Special Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (SARP) designed to expand output of winter crops there-
by offsetting the effects of the flood. Even if this program is successful,
preliminary Government estimates, which must be considered highly tentative
until the effect of the flood on the aman crop is known with more precision,
indicate that foodgrain imports of the order of 2.3 million tons may now
be necessary if per capita consumption is not to decline. Reflecting the
growing scarcity, the price of rice increased to over Tk. 200 per maund
(US$0.31 per lb.) in early August 1974.
11.       The rapid increase in the price of rice over the past two and a
half years has increased the profitability of cultivating rice relative to
jute, aBangladesh's second most important crop and the source of about 85%
of its foreign exchange earnings. Consequently, farmers have slhifted out
of jute into rice cultivation, bringing production of jute and similar
fibers in 1973/74 down to about 6.0 million bales, well below the 1972/73
level of 6.6 million bales. The relative price of jute continued to dete-
riorate throughout 1973/74, and as a consequence the 1974/75 jute crop is
expected to be on the order of only 4.0 - 4.5 million bales. Even if ex-
isting jute stocks (about 1.6 million bales) are used up, this means the
total volume of raw and processed jute exports will not increase in 1974/75
and may decrease substantially in 1975/76. To prevent a further reduction
in raw jute production in 1975/76, steps should be taken immediately to in-
crease the domestic jute procurement price. In the longer run more effec-
tive extension of improved jute cultivation techniques and an intensive re-
search effort will be essential if jute is to become competitive with rice
cultivation at home and synthetic substitutes abroad.
Industrial Production
12.       As discussed in more detail in Annex VI and below in Part II,
many components of the industrial sector registered substantial increases
in output during 1973/74, dcue primarily to increased availability of essen-
tial imported raw materials and spare parts and to reduced labor unrest.
Program lending by IDA and other donors was instrumental in making additional
imports available. Nevertheless, production for most industries was well be-
low 1973/74 targets and for many industries even below 1969/70 actual levels.



Moreover, by the end of 1973/74 shortages of raw materials and spare parts
emerged again, bringing monthly production rates in many industries below
those achieved earlier in the year. With imports now further constrained
by the current balance of payments crisis and with continuing inflation
threatening to upset an uneasy peace with labor, the outlook for the indus-
trial sector is far from bright. The low level of industrial output has
been one of the major factors contributing to high levels of inflation.
The general cost of living indices for Dacca and Narayanganj rose by 50%
during 1972/73 and by 40% during 1973/74.
The First Five Year Plan and the 1974/75 Annual Plan
13.       The changes in Bangladesh's terms of trade in the past year and
the effects of the recent flood have rendered the First Five Year Plan's
financial and economic projections and development program almost com-
pletely out of date. The Five Year Plan, however, remains useful as an
indicator of broad policy options. Within this broad framework major
revisions will have to be made. The 1974/75 Annual Plan, prepared in
the midst of the emerging crisis, provides no specific guideline for re-
structuring the development program in the light of the dramatic change in
the terms of trade. Already, however, the implications of the past year
are clear: a much less ambitious development program (and hence rate of
growth) will require more resources, foreign and domestic, than projected
for the original, larger program. Foreign resources are not the only
constraint. Domestic resources have not been mobilized at anything like
the levels envisaged in the Five Year Plan, while rapid domestic price
increases have raised the requirements for domestic finance for both the
current and development budgets. As a result, substantial deficit financ-
ing (Tk. 1.8 billion as opposed to the planned Tk. 0.2 billion) has been
required in 1973/74 merely to achieve a level of development expenditures
lower in current prices, and far lower, in real terms, than originally
projected. In fact, the level of development expenditures ilL 1973/74 was
some 28% below that of 1972/73 in real terms. The budgetary deficit has
in turn contributed to the nearly 20% expansion in money supply during the
year and further fueled domestic inflation. The 1974/75 ±udget indicates
that real development expenditures in 1974/75 are unlikely to exceed 1973/74
levels.
Trade and Balance of Payments
14.       Annex V discusses Bangladesh's trade and balance of payments
situation in detail. During 1973/74, the average cost of imports rose
by about 65% over that of the previous year, so that the import bill
of US$920 million bought less, in real terms, than the US$680 million
spent on imports in the depressed year of 1972/73. The volume of non-
food imports, while greater than in 1972/73, continued to be inadequate
to lift industrial production back to 1969/70 levels. Export performance
was also far from satisfactory. While export prices began to rise in the
latter part of the year, they did not rise as fast as import prices and
because most Df Bangladesh's exports are shipped on a deferred payment
basis, their impact on earnings was postponed. Moreover, export volume



-6-
did not improve substantially. As a result, the total value of exports
in 1973/74 amounted to only about US$360 million, in contrast to the
target of US$400 million.
15.       Annex V also provides data on 3angladesh's balance of payments
for 1972/73 and 1973/74 and projections for 1974/75. As the gap between
Bangladesh's imports and exports grew during 1973/74, reserves dropped
sharply despite substantial short-term borrowings and a drawing from the
IMF. As the emerging foreign exchange crisis became evident in May 1974,
the Government sharply restricted imports which, while easing the short-term
crisis, implies lower levels of industrial production in the near future as
supplies of imported inputs dwindle. The outlook for 1974/75 is even more
precarious. A detailed analysis of the balance of payments is being prepared
for the October Aid Group meeting. The approximate orders of magnitude,
however, are clear now. While exports may increase to about US$400-410
million, due primarily to export price increases, a minimum import program
for 1974/75 would be about US$1,400 million. This import program is based
on a modest US$185 million for imports of capital goods (primarily for aid-
financed projects); food imports of 2.3 million tons (about US$514 million,
including the import requirements of SARP); and other non-capital goods
imports totalling about US$700 million (representing an increase of less
than 10% over the 1973/74 volume of such imports at 1974/75 prices). As the
table below indicates, allowing for deferred payments for 1973/74 imports
(about US$38 million) and the maintenance of the present very low levels of
reserves (about US$60 million), the deficit on current account remaining
to be financed by foreign assistance, including assistance from the IMF, is
over US$1 billion. This is more than double actual net aid disbursements
last year (about US$420 million).
BALANCE O0 PAYMENTS PROJECTION, 1974/75/a
(in US$ Million)
1.   Imports                                        -1,438
2.   Exports                                           410
3.   Trade Balance                                  -1,028
4.   Other Current Account (Net)                        -2
5.   Balance on Cuizent Account                     -1,030
6.   Net Aid Disbursements from
Existing Pipeline:
a.  Grant                                     200
b.  Loans                                     225
7.   Possible IMF assistance                            80
a.   Uncovered Gap                                     525
/a   For details anc assumptions, see Annex V.



-7-
External Assistance to Bangladesh
16.       It is clear that Bangladesh depends on a substantial increase in
aid merely to prevent the economy from retrogressing, let alone achieve any
significant growth. As detailed in Annex V, roughly US$505 million of aid
disbursements could be achieved from the pipeline of aid existing on
July 1, 1974 and from drawings from the IMF. Bangladesh is expected to draw
about US$45 million from the IMF oil facility. While Bangladesh has not yet
reached agreement with the Fund on the terms and conditions of a credit
tranche, the projection in the Table above assumes, as a working hypothesis,
that during 1974/75 agreement will be reached for a drawing of at least the
second credit tranch of an amount of about US$37 million. The additional
disbursements of US$525 million required to finance the remainder of the gap
would necessarily come from new aid commitments during 1974/75. To achieve
this level of disbursements, the required new commitments would be roughly
US$915 million, about US$400 million more than committed last year, with a
higher proportion of fast disbursing, program-type lending. The composition
of the new commitments would be as important as their level: much more
finance is required for food and other commodities than for capital goods
which are already fairly well covered by a pipeline of project aid. While
new project aid is required, it will need to be restricted to projects of
the very highest priority. Annex V indicates that new food, program, and
project aid commitments during 1974/75 would need to be on the order of at
least US$255, US$410 and US$250 million, respectively, if the projected level
of disbursements is to be obtained.
17.       Less than a year ago, Bangladesh's economic situation justified
a sharply different view of aid priorities; then it appeared that commo-
dity assistance would be an important but diminishing part of the aid
package as an increasing portion of aid would be used to finance the dev-
elopment projects outlined in the First Five Year Plan. But the events of
the past year have altered that view. The shift in Bangladesh's terms of
trade, combined with the effects of the recent flood, make necessary substan-
tial increases in food and other commodity aid merely to maintain last year's
relatively low level of both food consumption and non-food imports in real
terms. The Bangladesh Government, shortly after the payments crisis emerged,
indicated to major donors its desire to shift the composition of aid at
the present time from project aid to commodity or program aid, and some
donors have already responded to this request. In an effort to raise the
additional resources it requires and to achieve better coordination of aid,
the Government in July 1974 took steps to establish an Aid Group of coun-
tries and institutions which are interested in Bangladesh's development.
The first meeting of the Group, to be chaired by the Bank, is scheduled for
October 24 and 25, 1974.
The Case for Program Lending
18.       The events of the past year have made the need for program lending
more urgent now than at any other point in Bangladesh's brief history. The
shift in the terms of trade this year sharply widened the deficit on current
account - from about US$550 million last year to a projected US$1,030 million



-8-
in 1974/75. With the Government's limited cash receipts concentrated on pe-
troleum and those food imports not covered by aid, the import of commodities
essential for industrial production must be financed, if at all, by increas-
ing amounts of program lending. Without such imports, most of Bangladesh's
industrial production will slow down and cease, capacity will be unused and
workers idle. Essential basic consumer goods would become even more scarce
and thus prices would rise further. Crucial imports for the agricultural
sector, such as fertilizers, raw materials for fertilizer manufacture, and
spare parts for irrigation equipment, would not be available, thereby in-
creasing the country's dependence on food imports. The relatively small
but crucial import needs of export-oriented industries, such as.jute, news-
print and tanneries, would not be met, further compounding the already
serious foreign exchange situation. Program aid is therefore vitally
needed to finance imports essential for agricultural and industrial produc-
tion of vitally needed food, consumer goods, exports and intermediate goods.
19.       For the foreseeable future, then, program lending is likely to
be a major feature of development aid to Bangladesh. At the same time, how-
ever, a carefully selected group of priority projects needs to be implemented,
in a phasing consistent with available resources, which will reduce the
country's dependence on imports (e.g. by increasing production of food and
fertilizer and by reducing the rate of population growth) and promote exports.
For this approach to contribute to the long-term development of Bangladesh,
it will be increasingly important for the Government to adopt an appropriate
policy framework. The administrative system will have to deal more effectively
with the development tasks ahead. While the events of the past year have
severely disrupted planning efforts, in recent months the Government has
taken a number of difficult economic decisions. Interest rates were increased
in June 1974, with the bank rate rising from 5% to 8% and the lending rate
rising from a maximum of 10% to about 13%. New taxes have been levied which
the Government projects will increase revenues by 50% over 1973/74 levels.
Steps have been taken to reduce subsidies, particularly those for rationed
food items, fertilizer and pesticides. A major change in industrial policy
has vastly increased the scope for the private sector by raising the ceiling
on private investment in industry from US$330,000 to nearly US$4 million.
The army has been posted on the borders to restrict smuggling and an anti-
corruption drive has led to the removal of a number of officials. If Bangla-
desh is to survive its present difficulties without a major human tragedy,
many more difficult'steps will have to be taken to bring the economy to grips
with the new realities of the world economy and to increase the effectiveness
of the administration. Of particular importance will be efforts to improve
the competitive position of jute, to restrict the subsidized food distribu-
tion system and reduce its dependence on Imports, to mobilize domestic
resources and to improve the performance of the public sector enterprises.
If appropriate action is taken in such areas and if the world community
responds to Bangladesh's needs with adequate amounts of aid of the proper
composition, then Bangladesh stands a chance of passing through the current
situation and establishing the foundations for future economic development.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
The last reactivation credit (US$25.0 million for the Highway Project) was
signed on June 29, 1973. In addition, by July 31, 1974 six new credits had
been made, totalling US$135.6 million: US$50 million for the Reconstruction
(First) Imports Program Credit; US$7.5 million for the Cereal Seeds Project;
US$4.0 million for the Technical Assistance Project; US$4.1 million for the
Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$50.0 million for a (Second)
Imports Program Credit; and US$20.0 million for a Second Telecommunications
Project. A US$25 million credit for the Barisal Irrigation Project is sched-
uled for Board Presentation in the second quarter of this fiscal year.
21.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh and
the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by
Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh
became independent. Until such negotiations are complete, it is not possible
to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or its total
debt service. The Association has engaged in discussions with the Govern-
ment on the assumption of the debt to the Bank Group. The Bank and the
Association initially requested Bangladesh to assume responsibility for
about US$114 million of debt to the Bank Group originally incurred by Pakis-
tan. Of this amount, Bangladesh has so far tentatively agreed to accept
liability for about US$93 million, about US$55 million to the Bank and US$37
million to IDA. Presentation of the appropriate documents to the Boards of
the Bank and the Association for approval awaits final agreement from the
Bangladesh authorities. Meanwhile, the Government of Pakistan continues to
make the service payments on all of these obligations to the Bank Group.
22.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits made to
Bangladesh as of July 31, 1974, and notes on the status of execution of
ongoing projects. Bangladesh is not yet a member of IFC. Of the total
of IDA credits of US$286.95 million made to Bangladesh as of July 31,
only about US$109 million (including US$44.1 million for repayments of
amounts disbursed under some of the corresponding credits to Pakistan)
had been disbursed as of July 31, 1974. Excluding disbursements under
the two program credits, only about US$9.5 million had been disbursed
under project credits for expenditures since independence. This poor
performance is attributable to a combination of factors including Gov-
ernment procedures for hiring consultants and for awarding procurement
and civil works contracts, and shortages of construction materials such as
cement. Various ways of improving this situation are being discussed with the
Government including improvement of procurement procedures, a comprehensive
study of the import control system, and increasing the role of the Resident
Mission in project supervision.



- 10 -
23.       As the analysis in paragraph 18 above indicates, increased prior-
ity must be given to flexible, fast disbursing program lending in view of
the events of the past year in order to help Bangladesh prevent industrial
stagnation. Accordingly, it is proposed that IDA program lending to Bangladesh
be raised to US$75 million this year, compared with US$50 million last year.
This would be a smaller proportion of total expected lending to Bangladesh
since (assuming ratification of the Fourth Replenishment Agreement) more IDA
funds will be available, and a number of high priority projects are expected
to be ready for presentation to the Board this year. In addition to the
US$25 million Barisal Irrigation project mentioned above, a fertilizer pro-
duction project is expected to be presented later in 1974/75. Discussions
are underway with other potential lenders concerning joint or parallel financ-
ing for this project. Another project expected to be ready for presentation
this fiscal year is a population project for which joint and parallel financ-
ing is also being arranged. To accommodate the Government request for the
vitally needed increase in program lending, however, some high priority
projects which are in an advanced stage of preparation may have to be postponed
until early 1975/76.
24.       For the longer term, IDA has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Credit to provide the Government with studies and technical
assistance needed to develop a stream of projects which would serve longer-
range development objectives. The identification of project areas will con-
tinue to take place in the context of a dialogue with the Government concern-
ing its overall development objectives and sector plans, carried out through
economic and sector reporting activities. The Association recognizes the
prime importance of the agricultural sector on which the livelihood of about
80% of the population depends. Accordingly, several agricultural projects,
which emphasize the critical need to increase food production as quickly as
possible, are being prepared. Projects already under preparation include
irrigation works in the Huhuri and Karnafuli river areas. Among the other
agricultural projects due to be presented in 1975/76 are an Agricultural
Training Project and a Rural Development Project. The Association provided
a team of staff members to assist the Government in July, 1974 in a review
of planning for the development of the nation's water resources. A sector
review of agricultural pricing policy is scheduled for early in 1975.
25.       The growth of other sectors will also require attention, partic-
ularly the development of the transportation system to improve the distri-
bution of agricultural inputs and bring farm output and food imports to
market, and the development of industries, especially those (such as fer-
tilizer) serving the rural areas and those based on agricultural materials.
The scope for further transportation projects should be defined by the
Bangladesh Transportation Sector Survey now being completed with assist-
ance from both the United Kingdom and the Association. In industry, the
Association has completed a survey of the small-scale sector (Report No.
154a-BD, July 23, 1973) and a proposed second small-scale industries proj-
ect is expected to carry on the work of the first small-scale industries
project (Cr. No. 353-BD). It may also help rural-based industries such as



cottage and handloom industries. DFC operations are also under considera-
tion. An industrial sector mission (see paragraph 27 below) is scheduled
for early in 1975.
PART III - INDUSTRY IN BANGLADESH
26.       The proposed Third Imports Program Credit is primarily intended
to finance essential materials and spare parts required for high priority
industries. The following paragraphs review the structure, performance
and prospects of the industrial sector generally. Annex VI contains a
more detailed discussion, focusing on individual industrial groups.
General Characteristics of Industry
27.       The main characteristics of the industrial sector have been
described in some detail in Chapter VI of the Basic Economic Report. An
industrial sector mission is planned for this fiscal year which will pro-
duce a detailed analysis of specific sub-sectors of Bangladesh's industry,
including a review of longer term development prospects and policies. The
sector is a small but growing element in the Bangladesh economy, accounting
at present for 8% of GDP as compared to 4% at partition in 1947. The public
sector now contains most medium- and large-scale industry, including the
"abandoned" properties formerly owned by non-Bengalis, the nationalized cot-
ton, jute and sugar mills, and the properties of the former East Pakistan
Industrial Development Corporation. Ten public sector corporations have
been established to manage the individual enterprises in each major indus-
trial group. The private sector consists mainly of small-scale enterprises
although some larger, privately-owned facilities are found among pharmaceu-
tical, soap, edible oil, frozen shrimp, tanneries, steel re-rolling and to-
bacco industries. The scope for private sector industrial investment was
greatly increased in July 1974, when the ceiling on private investment in
industrial units was raised from Tk. 2.5 million (about US$330,000) to
Tk. 30 million (almost US$4 million). At the same time, the regulations
on foreign investment were liberalized.
28.       The development of the industrial sector in the years before in-
dependence was based upon an integrated Pakistan economy, and consequently
the sector faces a number of problems in adjusting to the economic realities
of an independent Bangladesh. For example, on the supply side, one of the
most important industries, the cotton textile industry, was almost completely
dependent upon supplies of raw cotton from the west wing and must now seek
alternative sources; on the demand side, the steel mill was designed for a
product mix in which the particular demand from the west (for example, heavy
plate) was an important component.    Further examples of the varying degrees
of interdependence which had been developed, and the different degrees of
success achieved by individual industries in coping with this problem, are
provided in Annex VI which focusses on the problems of the major sub-sectors.



- 12 -
29.       Moreover, reflecting the distortions arising from price and ex-
change rate policies followed in the period before independence, many plants,
particularly in the engineering sub-sector, were established on the basis
of high protection and these have excess capacity even in relation to the
formerly integrated Pakistan market. Some possibilities may exist for
export of these items but a major effort will be required to adjust the
output-mix to external demand.
Performance in 1973/74
30.       During 1973/74 continued improvement was experienced in indus-
trial output with practically all major industries registering increases
as compared to the previous year (see Annex VI). Nevertheless, only a
few minor industries were able to achieve their production targets either
as set in the 1973/74 Annual Development Plan or as revised downward during
1973/74. For many items, last year's output was below the peak levels of
production recorded in 1969/70; the exceptions to this generaiization oc-
curred principally where new producing units have been subsequently estab-
lished (e.g. fertilizer, diesel engines and pumps). As the year ended,
however, shortages of imported raw materials, intermediates and spare
parts, which have been a major element in preventing output from reaching
more normal levels, were becoming more severe and were increasingly forcing
enterprises to cut back on production levels achieved earlier in the year.
On balance, output in the public sector corporations was some 15 to 18%
higher in 1973/74 than in 1972/73. The incomplete information available
on performance in the private sector indicated generally higher output in
1973/74, closely correlated to the supply of imported raw materials.
31.       During the year considerable progress was made in overcoming labor
difficulties which had contributed to the poor performance in previous years.
However, the shortage of skilled, experienced managerial personnel continued
to plague a number of key industries. The problem has been magnified by
weaknesses in the organizational structure of the public sector corporations
(e.g. lack of delineation of management functions within the corporations
and of responsibilities between corporations and other public sector agen-
cies) as well as by the failure to provide adequate incentives for managerial
cadres. This range of difficulties will require considerable time and effort
for solution and steps have been taken to improve the situation through an
extensive technical assistance effort, financed primarily by the United Kingdom.
32.       Significant increases in output were recorded by the cotton
textile, sugar, and fertilizer industries, the major industries serving
the local market. Production of jute goods, the country's main export
earner, rose by about 12%, reflecting both the improved labor situation
and the improvement in power supply: disruption in the latter had cur-
tailed mill production in 1972/73 and in the early months of 1973/74.
Among minor exports, frozen shrimp also recorded considerable growth;
production and exports of hides and skins rose, primarily from the pri-
vate sector as those plants belonging to the public sector continued to
experience organizational difficulties resulting from the loss of non-
Bengali managerial and technical personnel. Within the timber products



- 13 -
sector, newsprint production declined slightly as the major plant at
Khulna continued to experience power and other mechanical problems. On
the other hand, production of other items in this category rose rather
sharply and exports of hardboard and particle board were recorded for
the first time. Among intermediate products, steel ingot and cement pro-
duction were also substantially higher. However, by the end of the fiscal
year both industries were experiencing critical shortages of imported raw
materials and were forced to curtail output. Continued production, partic-
ularly in the case of steel, was dependent upon receipt of imported inputs;
in July, 1974 the steel mill was able to operate only one of its four fur-
naces because of the lack of pig iron.
33.       While there was a shortfall in production relative to targets for
a number of items, it would appear that some targets, particularly in the
engineering subsector, were overly ambitious and reflected a failure to take
into account the changes in market structure which have resulted from inde-
pendence. Since most of the larger enterprises in those sub-sectors were
originally established to meet the combined demand from West and East Pakistan,
these firms are encountering constraints due to the limited market of Bangladesh.
Prospects for 1974/75
34.       The 1974/75 Annual Development Plan anticipates an increase of
10% in industrial output as compared to the previous year (see Annex VI
for targets for individual industries). Stress has been put on insuring
the availability of essential consumer goods as well as intermediate goods
in order to reduce inflationary pressures; at the same time the balance of
payments gap requires that special attention be given to export-oriented
industries.
35.       More detailed consideration of the short-run prospects for the
principal industries is provided in Annex VI. In summary, with stocks
drawn down during the previous periods, the actual flow of imports will
largely determine output levels for those sub-sectors (e.g. steel, cement,
cotton textiles, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, paper and newsprint) which
require imported raw materials or intermediates. The expected small size
of the jute crop will mean that last year's level of production of jute
goods can be maintained only if existing stocks of raw jute are used up.
It may also be necessary to limit exports of raw jute to meet the mills'
requirements. At the same time, availability of critical spare parts which
need to be imported can influence jute manufacturing output. In the case
of sugar, the supply of cane is expected to expand, resulting in increased
mill production and an increased need for a small but essential complemen-
tary flow of imported chemicals and spare parts. The recent explosion at
the larger urea plant is likely to put that factory out of operation for
most of the year, and the smaller, older factory needs extensive overhaul.
Thus production of this important agricultural input may fall below last
year's level. While production of Triple Super Phosphate (TSP) from the
plant at Chittagong, entirely dependent on imported supplies of raw mate-
rials, may begin this year, delays so far suggest that production from
this plant may be less than expected. In addition to the raw mate-
rial needs of the TSP plant, all fertilizer plants are in need of imported
packaging materials and spare parts.



- 14 -
36.       For most industries, output growth is strictly dependent upon
the availability of imported raw materials and spare parts. The outlook
for such imports in 1974/75 is not encouraging. Even the major increases
in commodity aid suggested in paragraph 16 above and Annex V would permit
imports sufficient for only a relatively modest increase in industrial
production. Already the shortage of foreign exchange has resulted in a
sharp cutback in the Government's allocations for new purchases (see para-
graph 15). In addition, delays are being experienced in receiving certain
imports. Among the factors contributing to these delays are the world-wide
shortage of such commodities as pig iron, steel ingot, chemical wood pulps,
cotton and cement; shortages in shipping space; and the lengthening of de-
livery periods for many mechanical spare parts due to inadequate world pro-
ductive capacity relative to current demand for those items.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Previous Imports Program Credits to Bangladesh
37.       The Association has extended two program credits to Bangladesh
(Credits 345-BD and 458-BD), each for US$50 million, for the purpose of
financing imports of raw materials, chemicals, components, spare parts,
balancing equipment and packing materials for selected high priority
industries and for agriculture. In response to changing economic condi-
tions there were some differences between the two Credits. The Reconstruc-
tion (First) Imports Program Credit (Cr. 345-BD), signed in November, 1972,
was designed to meet the most pressing import requirements of an economy in
the early stages of recovery from the severe setbacks caused by cyclone dam-
age in 1970 and the war of 1971. It therefore financed imports for all major
sectors -- industry, agriculture, power, transport and communications --
and two major categories of needs: (a) equipment and spares to replace or
repair capital goods destroyed or damaged in 1970 and 1971 in order to re-
store, at least in part, the economy's pre-war capacity, and (b) materials,
components and intermediate goods needed as inputs to utilize existing pro-
duction capacity in agriculture and industry.
38.       The (Second) Imports Program Credit (Cr. 458-BD) was signed on
February 5, 1974. By that time it had become more appropriate to provide a
sharper focus to the uses of the credit by concentrating resources on the
highest priority industries. Broadly speaking, these were industries that
(a) produce goods for export, (b) serve the essential requirements of con-
sumers and (c) serve the key transportation and construction sectors. Some
items that were eligible under the first credit were excluded from tile second
credit because it was considered more appropriate to finance them under proj-
ect credits. In general, items of capital equipment (except for small items
of equipment for the balancing of production) were excluded from the list.
It was not intended to create new capacity in industry or agriculture; rather,
the Association's support in these fields was to be instrumental in facili-
tating fuller use of existing capacity.



- 15 -
39.       Initially, utilization of the Reconstructioni (First) Imports Pro-
gram Credit suffered from severe delays while the Government took a full
three months to allocate funds to potential end-users of the credit. The
first IDA commitments were not made until May 25, 1973, six months after
the signing of the Credit. Consequently, the Credit had no impact on pro-
duction in 1972/73. After this slow start, however, significant progress
was made in accelerating letter of credit openings and disbursements. Staff
members of IDA's Controller's Department visited Bangladesh frequently to
assist the various agencies of the Government in the implementation of the
Credit. The increasing familiarity of these agencies with IDA procurement
requirements and disbursement procedures resulted in more rapid utilization
of the Credit. Although the Credit has been fully committed for some time,
shortages of shipping space on major international lines have delayed the
shipment of many goods and thus slowed disbursements of credit funds. Con-
sequently, the closing date of August 31, 1974 was extended to March 31, 1975
to allow the suppliers and the Government agencies more time to organize the
delivery of the goods for which letters of credit were outstanding. As of
July 31, 1974, disbursements were US$40.1 million. Import orders have been
placed for the balance, and the Credit should be fully disbursed by March,
1975.
40.       During negotiations for the (Second) Imports Program Credit, the
Government agreed to seek ways to prevent repetition of the kinds of delays
noted above. The Government realized the cost of excessive caution in issu-
ing licenses in the past and undertook to issue licenses both in advance of
the signing of the (Second) Imports Program Credit and also in excess of the
amount of the Credit. The Government recognized that administrative bottle-
necks within the national banking system and in the import control system
were hampering the flow of vital imports. The Government, therefore,
strengthened the administrative unit within the Planning Commission which
is responsible for IDA Program Credits in order to expedite actions in all
agencies concerned with the import process up to the time of shipment of
the goods. For the longer term, the Government recognized the need to
examine the institutional and administrative constraints in the entire
import control system and thus agreed to conduct a study of the system to
determine ways to streamline the import process in all its stages. Prepara-
tions for this much needed study were begun in June 1974.
41.       The utilization of the (Second) Imports Program Credit has been
rapid. As of July 31, 1974, disbursements were US$15.4 million, exceeding
the estimates made at the time of appraisal. The Association has also
guaranteed letters of credit for import orders worth another US$25.8 mil-
lion, and the Bangladesh Bank has approved letters of credit for the re-
maining funds. The Credit should be fully disbursed by December 31, 1975,
well before the Closing Date. Additional program assistance is essential
if the Government is to ensure a flow of maintenance imports to vital sec-
tors. While progress in the utilization of these credits has been encour-
aging, delays in receiving the goods have meant that their full impact on
the production of benefited industries is only now beginning to be felt.
As mentioned above, shortages of shipping space on major international



- 16 -
lines hampered deliveries in some cases. In others, shipments were ef-
fected but the goods were not cleared through Customs for want of deci-
sions on the part of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce about the level
of customs duty which should be levied on the goods. Other examples of
factors inhibiting the delivery of the goods include transport problems,
inadequate distribution arrangements, and lack of coordination between
the importers, the banks and the Government departments.
42.       Yet, despite these difficulties, which are shared with all goods
which Bangladesh importers attempt to procure, IDA funds have been important
in preventing the closure of many enterprises for want of essential inputs.
In 1972/73, production in most industries was hampered by frequent power
failures and labor troubles, as well as the familiar shortages of imported
materials, the loss of markets and shortages of local raw materials. During
1973/74, the labor situation improved a great deal and power failures were
less frequent, but now stocks of raw materials and spare parts are either
non-existent or at dismally low levels in all industries, and the existence
of IDA program credits is often a crucial factor which keeps industries
producing. Imports financed under the previous IDA program credits will
continue to arrive in 1974/75, substantially benefiting production. Indeed,
for many enterprises, IDA has been the only source of imports. Even where
this has not been the case, however, the flexibility provided by untied IDA
financing has helped the assisted industries in procuring goods more readily
and economically in a very tight world market. An analysis of the utiliza-
tion of the two previous program credits by industry is given in Annex VII.
The Proposed Third Imports Program Credit
43.       With the previous program credits almost fully committed and with
the emergence of the balance of payments crisis described in paragraphs 14
and 15 above, the Government, in June 1974, requested a third program credit.
An Association mission appraised the proposed credit from July 15 to August 2,
1974. All major issues were resolved in the field, or through communication
with the Government in the course of processing the credit, making formal ne-
gotiations unnecessary. A Credit and Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, while the amount of the credit presented for
approval today is US$50 million, it is planned when the availability of IDA
funds permits, to propose an increase in the credit amount to US$75 million.
44.       Bangladesh's industries depend critically on the availability of
imports. For the priority industries eligible for finance under the proposed
credit to obtain a modest increase in production, it is estimated that im-
ports worth about US$460 million would be required (Annex IV), a major part
of the US$650 million required for total commodity imports of goods other
than food and oil products for all sectors of the economy. To achieve a
US$650 million level of commodity imports would require new non-food com-
modity aid commitments of some US$410 million (Annex V). The amount of IDA
program lending proposed for this year, US$75 million, would represent less
than 20% of the new commitments of commodity aid required for such a minimum
imports program. Such an amount is fully justified given Bangladesh's current
economic situation. With the previous IDA program credits now fully committed,



- 17 -
the Government urgently needs new commitment authority to relieve the import
starvation forced upon it by the present balance of payments crisis.
45.       As in the case of the (Second) Imports Program Credit, the pro-
posed Third Imports Program Credit seeks to focus on the highest priority
import requirements. Consequently, use of the credit proceeds would be
concentrated on: (a) export-oriented industries (e.g. jute, paper and
board, sugar, tea, leather, and processing of shrimp and fish); (b) indus-
tries producing essential basic consumer goods (e.g. cotton textiles, chem-
icals and pharmaceuticals); and (c) industries producing important interme-
diate goods or services requirei for production in otlher sectors (e.g. fer-
tilizer, construction and commercial vehicles). The assisted industries
provide some 80% of industrial sector employment. Annex IV lists the major
categories eligible for finance under the proposed credit, and, for each
category, the estimated 1974/75 import requirement and a ceiling indicating
the maximum amount of the credit to be allocated to that category.
46.       The major differences between the proposed list and the list for
the (Second) Imports Program Credit are: finished fertilizers are not in-
cluded although raw materials for fertilizer production are retained; pro-
vision has been made this year for financing imports of spare parts for
engines for low-lift pumps; the shipbuilding industry has been excluded
this year because an adequate pipeline of imports exists for this sub-
sector; the food and allied products industry has been excluded (except
for shrimp processing as indicated in paragraph 57 below), since many of
its product lines are of low priority and others (e.g. tobacco and edible
oil) require imports not normally financed by IDA; and a new category for
selected export-oriented industries has been added.
47.       For each category of goods, a ceiling has been set indicating the
maximum amount of the credit which can be used for that category. As shown
in Annex IV, these ceilings do not indicate total import requirements but
rather only a fraction of these requirements, taking into account probable
alternative sources of aid and the wish to avoid an unduly large proportion
of the credit being used for the import requirements of any one industry.
As with past program credits to Bangladesh, the sum of all the ceilings
(US$146.5 million) substantially exceeds the expected final amount of the
credit. This gives the Government considerable flexibility in allocating
the proceeds of the proposed credit among essential imports to take account
of possible new sources of commodity aid which may become available during
the vear and to adjust to changing priorities as needed. Such flexibility
assists the Government in making rapid use of the credit. The Government
has reviewed and agreed to both the list of categories and the ceilings.
The draft Development Credit Agreement contains the major headings, the
proposed ceilings and, where the product groupings are heterogeneous,
identification of the specific industries eligible for assistance (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1).
48.       In view of Bangladesh's extremely critical balance of payments
situation, it is proposed, at the request of the Government, to reimburse
the Government for payments made for eligible imports out of its own foreign



- 18 -
exchange resources after July 1, 1974, but before the date of the credit,
up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, paragraph 2b). The allowance of retroactive financing in
this case constitutes an exception to normal Bank Group policy, and has been
proposed only in an effort to respond to an extraordinarily difficult
economic situation. As in the case of the other imports financed under this
proposed credit, documentation would be required to demonstrate that appropriate
procurement procedures were followed (paragraphs 61 and 62).
Eligible Uses of the Proceeds of the Proposed Credit
Agriculture
49.       Fertilizer production provides one of the most important inputs
required to increase agricultural production and reduce food imports. The
two previous program credits made finance available for the import of finished
fertilizer, but use of the proposed Third Imports Program Credit will be
limited to raw materials, spare parts and packaging materials for fertilizer
manufacture.   The TSP plant requires imports of rock phosphate and sulphur
and both the TSP plant and the two urea factories require spare parts and
imported polyethylene chips for making fertilizer bag liners.
50.       Low-lift pumps provide for most of Bangladesh's irrigated area,
yet significant numbers of them are idle for lack of essential spare parts
for the engines, which cannot be manufactured locally. Consequently, the
proposed credit provides a source of finance of such spares.
Industry
51.       The J1te industry, the major export earner, has critical needs
for imports of chemicals and spare parts. Considerable emphasis is being
put on developing local capacity for producing spares, both in specialized
enterprises and in workshops of the larger jute mills but, for the foresee-
able future, some items will continue to be available only through external
sources.
52.       The cotton textiles industry requires imports of virtually all of
its raw materials. The Annual Development Plan targets for 1974/75 project
that yarn and cloth output will increase by 15% and 20%, respectively, over
1973/74 levels, bringing the output of borh above 1969/70 production levels,
thereby reducing the import of finished textiles; total import requirements
(raw materials, chemicals and spare parts) to achieve these levels are esti-
mated at well over US$120 million with only a small portion of that amount
in the pipeline or committed by other donors. As in the past credits, some
imports of synthetic yarns and nylon chips will be eligible for financing
since the industry engages in some production of mixed fabrics. Even if
such output increases were achieved, the local production of yarn will not
be sufficient to meet the requirements of the large capacity in the small-
scale private handloom sector so that provision is also made to finance



- 19 -
yarn; these requirements are estimated at US$30 million. Assuming that
all these import needs could be met, per capita availability of yarn and
cloth would still be less than it was on average during the 1960's.
53.       The main import for the paper and board industry is chemical long-
fibered wood pulp, used primarily for newsprint production where it is mixed
with the locally produced groundwood pulp; some small amounts are also used
for other printing and writing paper production. During 1973/74, stocks of
the imported pulp were almost completely drawn down; although some supplies
are now in the pipeline, financed under bilateral commodity aid programs,
more purchases are required if the output and export targets for 1974/75
are to be met. The possibility for increasing exports is of considerable
importance in assigning priority to this entire sub-sector. Provision is
also made in the proposed credit for other chemical and spare parts needs.
54.       Within the chemicals and pharmaceuticals industries, it is proposed
to assist in financing imports for the manufacture of soap, glass, industrial
chemicals and pharmaceuticals. The largest industry in this category is
soap. Nearly all the inputs for manufacturing this essential consumer good
must be imported. W4hile there is some local production of caustic soda the
import requirements for which would be eligible for finance under the pro-
posed credit, total requirements of that item for soap manufacture and other
uses far exceed existing capacity and substantial imports would be required.
Raw materials and packaging materials for pharmaceutical manufacture repre-
sent the next largest category. The imports of both public and private soap
and pharmaceutical enterprises would be eligible for finance under the pro-
posed credit.
55.       Import requirements for the sugar industry are relatively low,
consisting mainly of spare parts but including also some chemicals and pack-
aging materials. With prospects for both increasing supplies to the domestic
market and developing exports of this commodity, thus earning badly needed
foreign exchange, it is urgent that the industry have immediate access to
its import needs.
56.       Having depleted nearly all its stocks of inputs, practically all
of which are imported, the steel industry will require a major allocation
of foreign exchange. Small amounts of pig iron are now in transit but quick
action is required to build up a pipeline of inputs. Provision is also made
within this category for steel billet imports to help meet the requiremenits
of the re-rolling mills only about half of whose needs can be met by the
Chittagong Steel Mill, as well as for pig iron for the foundries which are
in the private sector; these will be imported and distributed through TCB.
57.       A new category of export-oriented industries is eligible for
finance under the proposed credit. Under this category, assistance would
be provided to the tea processing, frozen fish, shrimp and frog legs, and
leather industries, in both the private and public sectors. Particular
importance has been given to financing imports of packaging materials for
tea and shrimp, and chemicals for leather tanning; however, other interme-
diate goods and spare parts imports by these industries would also be eli-
gible.



- 20 -
58.       As in the past, provision is made to permit the small-scale
industries which are assisted by the Bangladesh Small Industries Corpora-
tion (BSIC) to obtain necessary imported raw materials or spare parts to
produce essential consumer goods.
59.       The assistance to be provided to the construction industry is
designed to permit imports of cement, ingredients for cement production,
and corrugated iron sheets. Difficulty in procuring cement and raw mate-
rials for its manufacture has severely curtailed construction in the coun-
try; the recent initiation of operations of the plant to grind clinker is
expected to ease this problem. The credit would be available for financing
clinker imports.
60.       Provision is also made for assistance to the commercial vehicle
assembly industry. Preliminary findings of studies on the transport situa-
tion in Bangladesh suggest that the demand for road transport in Bangladesh
will grow at a rather slow rate and that a large number of commercial vehi-
cles are presently immobilized because of a lack of spare parts. For this
reason, the ceiling for Association assistance has been set to meet the
needs for vehicle replacement and spare parts. The Government has agreed
to use at least one third of amounts spent under this category for spare
parts (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 bv).
Administration of the Credit
61.       Procurement - During the past year responsibility for procuring
most public sector imports has gradually passed from the Trading Corpora-
tion of Bangladesh (TCB) to the various public Sector Corporations. This
decentralization of procurement authority to the corporations has assisted
them in administering the imports for their subsidiary units. These ar-
rangements would be continued under the proposed Third Imports Program
Credit. The TCB will retain responsibility for procuring cotton yarn, cement
and corrugated iron sheets, and materials for the private sector steel and
foundry firms. Spare parts for low-lift pumps will be procured by the Bangla-
desh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). The Chief Controller of
Imports and Exports (CCIE) will handle the licensing and distribution of
credit funds to private sector firms importing goods other than those chan-
neled through TCB.   It is expected that about 80% of imports financed by the
Association will be procured by thie Sector Corporations or TCB on behalf of
public sector enterprises, andl the balance by private sector enterprises.
62.       Government procurement procedures require international competi-
tive bidding or the request of offers froia a minimum of three international
suppliers. Approval by the tender sub-cormittee of the Cabinet is required
for all contracts amounting to more than Tr. 1,000,000 (approximately
US$130,000). The Association and the Government have agreed that for all
orders estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, the importer would be required
to invite offers from at least three suppliers (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.03 and Schedule 3). The Association would review such
contracts and related documentation to ensure that they were in accordance



- 21 -
wich the credit agreement. Imports of goods estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 will be made through normal commercial channels. The requirement
that three offers be invited replaces the requirement under the previous
program credits that three offers be obtained, because in the present world
market supplies of certain items (e.g. cement and certain chemicals) are so
scarce that efforts to obtain three responsive offers are often unsuccessful
and lead to costly delays.
63.       Disbursement.  Disbursement procedures (except for the retroactive
element referred to in paragraph 48 above) would follow those of the previous
program credits. The Bangladesh Bank has again been designated as represent-
ative of the Government for making withdrawal of funds from the credit
account. It is expected that all contracts under this credit would be placed
by July 1975 and that the bulk of disbursements will be made within 18 months
of the date of the credit. The credit should be fully disbursed within 21
months, i.e., by about June 1976.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving the proposed
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 47, 48, 60, and 62 of this
Report. The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the pattern used
generally for program credits. No special conditions of effectiveness
are proposed.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
FRobert S. McNamara
President
South Asia Department
September 1974






Annex I
page 1 of 2 Pags.
PWTP  T ATA - BAEIJ.US
Rsfvs           is.eefaaisio
P5~~~~PI2~~~ 008 (dItto   ) /5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~70 /580 /5                                  110 La      k00 La
D"kUC  rein (per th-nnd)                                 L7 /,O         L   c            4B            38/3
Cd.WPXO d.     t.prtosn)20                                                    2119                   j            0; 
1,-loot -   itaity rt., (per thoo000d101-o births)           .1140                                    120.140     4L   1
Ttj,io eopsc.tony ot birth (years)                           ..              LB               L            50          59
Ooore odnicrt        53.5 lb                                             3.1              3.2 IA        .9         2.7
PtAatto    V~ehrt                                                           2.7A/            2.0 71       2.3/        3. 0/1
P0,po1atioo grcwttb r.te - .,Ib.n                            ...5~ Z                                        h 
Agn etynoot-r (p,ron t)
C-iL                                                      147 A           145/n            145/404                       
65                                    4              3                 ~~~        ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~7.  3  14 7
2ereodooo  rati,- A                                       1.6 7W.         1.5  _          1.14 7;n      1.2 L!,I    1.3 7&.
2,1,., Pa,il.ti.. .. Per-oot of total                        ..                               17 /         20 It        29 /d o
Froi.]  plarnoi'. %en Of ocue'tore Omuel.otiva (theosj       .                               17520
No. of oeere (% of noortd woenf)           1.
RaIRM     .b0   fwoe (th-a,ceda)                           17,100          22,300          140,100      221,000 4p          Id20
P-osnisg aenply1yd in sgico1tore                            76              71              63            7     ,c    45
Percentage OOOOOplOyOd                                                                       2                        8. 
~~~~~~~~nomr-vdb                     ib-    5%           19                                            22 A        22 rlU
Ponoost of rotbona2 J-,oa  reoet,d by highest 20%             145 /,148 7                                               52 L; t
Poro'sot of noti -1 10,0. received by lowast 20%               7 7~.                                         8           4r tuI~
r,-Oi'ot .f netionol Ic--n Ion,itd by Ivt.t 140%              18                             ..19 7                     1212
07 -oP IL301 mfawsr.                                                  314
8 co,na by sooliet 10% of On,mre
KAIt?330860 11710
10,000 /5        7,600 It w     27,650        4o,800       380Lj
Pcn.lation Per nonrsto  pormno                           13O0000          72,030 E         8,010        5,110        1,080 /d.
PoW3atimo ps, hospita1 bed                               11~/             ,20 ~g          1,720        1,620          330
For a-p'it. calorie Inpply so % of requirements 5..                                           82 £c         87 /ab      914 /d so
Pov osoltt Protein supply, total (gree    por day/5           ...                             143 Z~        49 7W       149 .dC
Of hnbih, arn.1melad pulses                                 ..                               o            16 7&       20 7Jso
Dn..Ih 0,t0 1-14 y..r. L7                                    6...
Ie p~oa, ahbool screll-ot ratio                      142 /ad am     50 /Abae         71           79 of        89 /d
Adjuetod    m eSood.ry enhoo enrollment ratio                 8a               5   i          12            28 Ti       34 
Toare Of -c0ooing promided, first end eoond le,ol             10       ~      1                      12                 331
VooCtional 0,0,lioCt 08 % of D... nohocion-enrolbn,           .                                28            6/±         3
AOtolt 2itar.cy ron. S                                                                       5..  6  mi. jam  36 M.A    89
Aver- oe10. of pornonis per ronn (Arban)                      ..
Po-et of-,,cpiod units withsot pipe       water               ..
docSe to olnotriiott   (so % of total poplaution)             .
P,r-:ro   of tural pr~polatim  cnnoected to electricity       ..
22~ ~a  l_   o, 1000 'oonlotion                            ..6                             ni            21           57
Peaen, oor pe       00  ioo      mto                          .                                 2            1          26 /a.d
Z ionnt  =ornoopion(kt P.C.)                                 3             1119                         fl          366
Beoneoriot n,n,,ptton p.c. kg por yasr                        ..                             0.2           0.3         38E        
Notts. Figures mefr cither to the latesnt periods or t.            sonoont ef eovirnommta1 Mepertcre,, body wCighIat, Cod
the latnot yrors. Latest period, refer 10 Principle to             distribution by aeg sndb se: of nOtioal popla-tion.
teY.on15-0o         967;teitn           er    npO..           /6  Proteio gotenderd   (requirements) for a11 aoontries me estab-
cinl  to 195660   or0 1970. ;th     a  t    *I     n   ra           iih.d by i2ZA goomd.o Reseoroh Service proold. for a minimum
Parh F: C*pita GNOP .ntimate to at mrokat prime. for            olloonos, of 60 grne, of total protein per day, -do 20 grom of
y-ar  ,th- than 1960, cla.nltod byr the sann  ononrotn          001001 and polse protein, of which 10 grama should be  nte
teohmiqaa oo the 197  26arld flank Atlon.                       protein. Thmese tandarde ore aeonot6t lIwe   thsn those of 75
/5Averge -nMnr of doughters poo enoon of ronp-tdnatioe            grace of total protein ard 23 peeo of -4-*a protein as se,
ago.                                                            average for the  orOld, prOpeoed by PAO in, the Third World Flood
P5 opol atio  yO,tbt -otoO ore for the decadee ro-t,g to          2005030.
1960 02,d 19720                                            /5   Onoa atdiao b-on Coggeotod tfhat cru.do death rate  of chdld,eo
R. NUn of   0. 15 sod 65 Cod 2500 nip brookot. to                 agon 1 through 14 nay be uoed amo f irst approximation inde  of
thoCo io. ktor forco br-e,ot of agne 15 throu,gh a1.            -,uO.Otrittoni.
n5lo -rofro     atezdordo repr"sonit phyqiologtol.            /8 Perneantage enrolled of correaponding popolotiro of school age
quiroct. far nor-ol eativity a0,d health, tkoe,~n               00 definod for moot countrny.
/a   M7l   a    3.96;  L   3 Bt±mt-ie;      Wt m2agoio;      /5  Reasetred onlyj     L5  ProJection, l973     &j 1965-70,
10W- i    160-7l;        ',,i      tdon, regenoy oapiiAe, 0016 other pl.aces with urhem oharaoterist±o.;    &   lbr
difin1o4on off 01r,0 seao         'I                   p. P- l~ ~L   l972..73j   /a  RatiLo of PoPelatica unde 1lSand 65
PMd rour ti ctatl lobeorse'                                             65e o to  id orw tototal labor force in ape group 15-59,;
/5  GsootUd srcac of 30,000 or mono        tent.;   Z   010 oitemate of labor foroe to Iwo group 15-5?'; nMR repot gives a
fipoe oa 180.14 illison booed son the 1.971 poulA,Tocowserve The difforenca to doe to change. in the definiton of a
woorher   21 the 1971 ooaoas, peraon Uwee Olamaeifed only on the bande of their main aotivitisal this led to the
ontaluvion of teveral oate5oriot, emoh ie housneivea        19603-64o   /r  Honoohelde;   La 19614-65;    /5  19691
?Tpm;     !  1967-68, geopraphioma itobrpolotion;    &12omer o00 the rogioter     not all working to ttb conolry;
a  l69 701   ~    1 96k4-66;  /ad  1959   i ;  /n   App.-L~oti'ensrollmont as percentage of population in 6-10 age group;
flatlelto Mb.c  inclodos ovoago toWdonto;   -A    Lppro=loato onorollasot so percentage of Population In 1.1-15 ago group;
t,n O  co'  of nniund lerol;  at  1965j    a    5   ?-iSyrff 00,1 010, i  Population of 10 year.m and over hosed on one
p.ronnt rvep3o dats of 1971; -    l  3966;  -'Z!    Dflofitio. of literacy ocaleown.
aS'lo,ttlan of Mlaysi. o- en   bjevtire country tn basod on, ?*6AIAeia's ooonae to inrkaintalon.ng a high rats of econoic
groto. nl adc-pootr lno"h nf noelfera noaar~rctly with di"verifyig '9ite oc-onot    etructors.
R2   Auguset 26, 19714



D OJ O   2  s PN  G J e  F  5! E   X   |  n X | ON S  O  O  |  U; ° ° ° L4 88   F (I 'IC8 t  
3;dF   |   11  I I  ' 'I'   '  '  I'   E   |  e E   41O *(>                   a >MJ~~~~hz
n >  > .  s v X   t       t          j                              5       ! b < U 0  0t 
^~~~~~~~~~l V . _ N.                         X 04jS                              S5*kFe     0-§ 
R                                                       oA  n  '  -  I             W    A  RI v     f , 1 t N|



ANNEX I
Puge 3 of 3 pge.
rMAW2 OF PAMUIT ErtWtAL ASSTSUA1 AND fDT
(aXnte in    l    ale  of U.S. doll.rs At current pri-CIS
getimated for Est Pabiesot  I  B        h    _N           C       L       A       r                 I                        Avg. Annutl
Actual           I            Netiented                                 Pretet                                             Rat
2   197T   19    7   3        1975/71_~~~~~~~~~~L =-!y 1-76        1976/7    te!7E7/7      19          3            S
SUtUARY BALANCE OF PAY3DTS
Export. (iceS. NPS)                     449         4 AA                   383          390          zo0         450         S00         550
Re30urce Ealan   (630                               711                    697          936        1,4l00      1.525       1.670       1,840
Z_st'tf    )              -         -Ah          -5?0        -970       -1I07_     -I.170      -I 290
Intere3t (net)                                                                                                   -1'         -30         -40
Direct lmnve3tent Inco                                *         .             5           20          20          3C          30          40
h-orker ' Rmittane.
Current Tracnsers (ntt)                  -7-
balance on Current Accounts             2C5        -22                                 ____          9        -1 060 _      1,170     -1.29           ..
Private Direct nveeotmnt                                                                                -
Official Capial Chants                                                      202          .20          200         200         200        200
Public WLT LoanS
Diqboroa-ents                                                              73          210         352         515          550        600
Net     ntobur 3ementr                                                     -24           -6          -9         -15         -17         -18
Net Di  rneeot.                                                           -251                                                         -782
Other MhLT Loens
Din b,ars-nto
-Recyti                                                                     _            - 
Met Disbursements
Actual                    Netiunted
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                                                                                                       V69       1970      1971       972        1973
Change in Net Re.ee.ee                                                                              LFM  AND IIBN  SVICE
Public Debt 0ut. & DLebureed
GRANT AND WAN COMTTErNTS
official Grants & Orant-ltke                                                            1SO           Intereet op Public Debt
RePKYaenta    Public Debt
Public WhLT iane                                                                                      Total Pablic Debt Service
TIRD                                                                                                OthUr Debt Service (net)
rDA                                                                                                 Total Debt Service (nt)
Other                                                                                   24
other tIultiluteral                                                                    358       bhrden on EAport E3rnings (%)   10.2      10.6      13.3       9.4
Sovernineoto
Supplier-                                                                                           Public Debt es-rice
FinanclaI Ihou tuttion                                                                 -            Total Debt Service
Bond.                                                                                  -            TDS.Direet Lnveat. Inc.
PUblic Loans n.e.i.
Total Public M&tR Loans                                                                 502         Average Teofma of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outata,ding onJ. jr  50 1975                   Iet. a. % Prior Yar D&D       2.7       2.7       2.4       1.1
EXTERNAL Dg3T                                 Dieboreed Onlr             Percent                        Arort. 00 S Prior Yaar W&D    4.6       4.1       3.5       Z.0          3
World bank                                         _                      _
rDA                                               16.2                   9.2                        TMW Debt Out. & Diabursed
Other IKltilateral                                 -                                                     as   Public Debt O4D       5.7       5.7       5.3       4.4        3.8
Gofc0tecets                                      104.0                  59.0                         ra     N Public Debt Servi.e  10.7      11.2      14.0     72.1         9.7
Suppliers                                         56.1                  51.8
Financial Ins3titAtions                            -                                                232 Debt Out. & Disbursed
Ronds li* asbts -.i                                                                                     . % Public Debt 0&D         8.3       7.9       7.3       6.9        9.9
Public Drbta n.e.i                                                                                      a 5 Public Debt Servtce     1.0       1.0       1.0       1.6         .9
Total Public 94.LT Debt                                                 o
Other M4LT Debto
Short-tare Debt (diah. only)
not applicable                                                e staff eeti_te
not availble                                                  o- il or regligibl-
...  not available mparctay                                      s--    lee  than half the
but included in total                                            crleet unit ehomn
I-Toldev only loac- contrscted  1incc independence.  The .ettleime.t of debt coctracted by Pnki3tap on behaLf of her Fhstert Wing ocoit. solution.  Erti-n- of IBRD
loan. for Projecte visibly located in B-nglsdeeh coe- to appro-itely tlSt61.f o,ill1cn.
12       Doe  ot i.clude di,baroemnt. of  Pprop tely U5$29.8 ldllion frios pre-indepeode-ce debt that hAs been te.ea over by Bangiedeeb. Ao of   xcbh 31, 1971,
751 ii shAi ese  ti eool U0t 84.*5 nillion.






ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLAD)ESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of Julyv 3 i, 1974
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                        US$ Million
Number   Year               Purpose                       Amount    Undisbursed
339      1972      Cyclone Area Beconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971) 25.0        24.0
340      1972      Chandputr Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                13.0        11.7
341      1972      Tubewell  (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0        12.7
343      1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)          7.3         5.1
345      1972      Reconstruction Imports                   50.0        9.9
353      1973      Small--Scale Industry, treplaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)             3.0         2.0
367      1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-FAK of 1963)              7.0         2.9
368      1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. A1-PAY, of 1963)            13.2         5.8
S-14     1973      Irrigaf-Lon Engineering (replaces
Czedits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                       3.15        0.3
381      1973      Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-FAK of 1966)                     19.7        0.9
407      1973      Education 'replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)           21.0        12.9
408      1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0       19.9
409      1973      Technical Assistance                      4.0        3.8
410      1973      Cereal Seeds                              7.5        7.5
424      1973      Inland Water Transnort Rehabilitation     4.1        4.0
458      1974      Imports Program                          50.0       34.6
487      1974      Second Telecommunications                20.0       20.0
Tota'l                      286.95     178.0



ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US825.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced
prior to the suspension of disbursements. Earthwork has been completed for
fifty-four miles of primary roads, and 60 cyclone shelters are under construc-
tion. However, progress has been slow due to the severe shortages of construc-
tion materials in Bangladesh.   For the other subprojects (inland water trans-
port, telecommunications, feeder roads, coastal fisheries and cyclone warning)
progress has been mainly limited to the preparation and floating of tenders
and ordering of equipment and materials.   Project completion is expected to
be about two years behind the schedule anticipated at appraisal. The Govern-
ment has submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing the scope of
the project in order to cope with the sharp increase in construction costs
since the Project was appraised. The proposal involved reductions in the
feeder roads to be financed by the Credit (a proposal for financing these
roads is under discussion with the World Food Program), reductions in the
fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in other project items. Given
the very early stage of procurement under the project, it was decided not
to formally amend the project at this stage. Meanwhile it was agreed that
the Government's proposals for reducing the project provided a reasonable
basis for proceeding for the time being. In about a year, when better
cost estimates are available, and when we have more experience concerning
the success of the various project components, a decision will be made
concerning the amendments required under the credit.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project; US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. When work on the project,
previously financed under Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970, was suspended in 1971,
the major project civil works were about half completed. The contractor man-
ufacturing equipment for the regulators had also made substantial progress.
Interim financing by Sweden provided for reappointment of project consultants,
resumption of construction and renegotiation of the contract for manufacture
and installation of the equipment for the regulators. Manufacture of this
equipment is almost complete and re-testing is in progress.   Civil works
construction has recommenced but is lagging At least a full year behind the
schedule anticipated at reappraisal, mainly due to initial delays in Credit
effectiveness and to a shortage of cement during the 1973/74 construction
season. The Government has established a Central Review Committee under the
Planning Commission to accelerate project implementation. Increases in proj-
ect costs may require a reallocation of Credit proceeds. Claims for reim-
bursements from IDA are lagging behind expenditures.



AXNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972,
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
Credit, again in conjunction with a US$6 million Credit from Sweden and a
US$6 million grant from Canada, became effective on January 17, 1973. Well
construction on this project began during January, 1974. In April, IDA
approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines.
Due to initial delays, present implementation is about one year behind sched-
ule, and new dates have been agreed for the completion of the activities on
which original deadlines have passed. Increases in project costs may require
a reallocation of credit proceeds. In January 1974, the Government and the
engineering consultants signed a revised contract providing for the additional
engineering and agriculture consulting services needed for the project. In
February, the agricultural consultants (who were under sub-contract to the
engineering consultants) withdrew from the project, stating that the salary
scales in the revised contract signed by the engineering consultants were
inadequate to attract staff of the calibre required for the project. The
Consultants also noted the lack of progress by the Government in making
necessary preparations for implementation of the agricultural development
component of the project. While progress on implementation of the agricul-
tural component has meanwhile improved, the Government has remained unwilling
to pay the agricultural consultants more than had been agreed in the contract
with the engineering consultants. The engineering consultants are making
new arrangements to provide the required agricultural consulting services.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project; US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972: Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services
valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of
disbursements. Orders have been placed for most of the remaining equipment
required under the project.
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction Imports Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
November 30, 1972; Closing Date:   March 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. As of July 31, 1974
disbursements were US$40.1 million and in addition letters of credit guaranteed
by IDA had been opened for US$8.2 million. Due to initial delays, only a
small portion of the goods to be imported under the Credit have been utilized
so far. Accordingly, the Credit had no impact on production in 1972/73, and
its impact on production is now only beginning to be felt. The Bangladesh
Bank has fully committed the proceeds of the Credit, but due mainly to delays



ANNEX II
Page 4
in finalizing contracts with suppliers and arranging shipping for the imported
goods, the Credit is not expected to be fully disbursed by August 31, 1974,
the original closing date. The Association has agreed to a request for the
extension of the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit
of January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970.   The Credit has financed notion-
al repayment of amounts previously disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK
(US$187,000) and payment of outstanding amounts for consulting services
performed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000). Disbursements for new
activities up to June 30, 1974 amounted to about $850,000 and projects
pipeline requirements now exceed available foreign exchange resources during
1975/76 and a second credit operation is therefore planned. More emphasis
will be needed on speed of implementation of projects. A UNDP/UNIDO tech-
nical assistance project is expected to help BSIC reorganization during
1975/76.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973.   The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAR of 1963. By December 1971 when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed. The project, as
reappraised in 1972, is now about 65% completed. Construction progress has
been slow due to problems with land acquisition, poorly performing and de-
faulting contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and materi-
als. Construction and material prices have risen sharply. Construction
progress is expected to improve as materials become available, but exten-
sion of the closing date by at least two years will be required. Management,
labor and union problems are diminishing following appointment of new Chair-
man. WIhile collection performance has improved recently, financial opera-
tions and financial management remain weak. The Water Authority and the
Planning Commission are currently preparing proposals for revising tariffs,
billing and collection procedures and arrangements for capital financing,
which will be reviewed by the Association in November/December 1974.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAR of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
ments were suspended, USS6.0 million had been disbursed. The water supply
portion of the project, as reappraised in 1972, is now about 60% completed
and the sewerage portion about 30% completed. Construction progress has



ANNEX II
Page 5
been slow due to problems with land acquisition, poorly performing and de-
faulting contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and mate-
rials. Construction and material prices have risen sharply. Construction
progress is expected to improve as materials become available, but exten-
sion of the closing date by at least two years will be required. Manage-
ment, labor and union problems continue. The financial operations and
financial management are weak. The Water and Sewerage Authority is cur-
rently preparing proposals for revising tariffs and capital financing,
which will be reviewed by the Association in November/December 1974.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million
Kroner credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again
providing a 25 million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and
95 percent of the new IDA and Swedish credits were used for repaying the
previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from IDA and about
US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being used to pay outstanding
bills for work completed prior to the war, completion of some supporting
facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment
damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for a second grain storage
project.   Contracts have been signed in March 1974 for design work to
strengthen the existing jetty serving the Chittagong silo. The designs
are expected shortly and will be followed by invitations to tender for
the construction. The contract for the feasibility study was signed in
April 1974. The study is expected to be completed towards the end of the
year. Project completion is expected to be one year beyond schedule due
to delays in selection of consultants and negotiating their contracts.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed by two IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAK and 87-PAK. By December
1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had been disbursed out
of US$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two former credits. The credit
adds US$3.5 million to the total of the original credits, in order to help the
government meet part of the increase in total project cost. Progress on the
agricultural university portion of the project has been delayed due to diffi-
culties in reaching agreement with the consultant architects on a revised
contract. These difficulties have now been finally resolved. Construction
has also being delayed due to shortage of building material.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit Agreement became effective on September 27, 1973. The
project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out
of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5 mil-
lion to the original credit amount, in order to help the Government meet part
of the increase in total project cost as a result of currency realignments.
Four construction contracts were signed in September 1973 for the Sitalakhya
Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong road worth about US$9.2
million. A fifth contract with consultants for construction supervision was
signed in February 1974 but they were in the field earlier. The progress of
the project is slow but it is improving and the outlook, generally, is satis-
factory. The major problems are shortage of essential supplies, like cement
and steel, and rising prices. The Government is making its best efforts to
make materials available for the execution of the project and, at least for
the present construction season, no disruption of the work is anticipated.
A cost overrun is likely as prices continue to rise. A tentative estimate
of the total project cost is about US$31.5 million compared to US$26.7 mil-
lion at the time of appraisal, representing an increase of about 20%. The
situation is being kept under review and the next supervision mission, ten-
tatively scheduled for November/December 1974 will firm up the project cost
estimates; at that time, arrangements for covering the cost overrun will be
discussed with the Government.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1973. Consultants contracts
have been signed for an inland water transport study, technical advisory
services for preparation of a proposed fertilizer project, a study of
areas suitable for rainfed HYV rice and for preparation of a fisheries
project. Discussions are under way concerning several other subproject
proposals.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 30, 1974. A contract for consult-
ants services has been signed and the consultants (specialists in seed pro-
duction, seed legislation and certification, and farm machinery) commenced
their duties in Bangladesh March 1974. Bids for the major items to be pur-
chased (farm equipment and processing plants) are expected to be received
by October 1974.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$4.1 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. Detailed investiga-
tions have indicated that the damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal



ANNEX II
Page 7
was more severe than previously believed. Consultants appointed late in 1973
to study several alternative technical solutions submitted their findings and
recommendations to the Government in late January. The Government has re-
quested the Association's agreement to a modification of the project descrip-
tion to enable the implementation of a proposed alternative solution which
will require more foreign exchange than has been provided in the Credit. This
is presently under review. The Association has cleared, after some modifi-
cations, the lists of spare parts, tools and equipment submitted by the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority and Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesh Engineering and
Shipping Corporation for financing under the Credit. The lists submitted
may have to be reduced to remain within the credit allocations.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Credit became effective February 13, 1974. Licences for the full
amount of the credit have been issued to the various eligible industries.
As of July 31, 1974 disbursements amounted to US$15.4 million and in addition
letters of credit guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$25.8 million.
Import orders have been placed for the balance, and the credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 8, 1973. When IDA suspended disburse-
ments under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and S-10) in
December 1971, the Dacca Southwest feasibility studies were completed and
the Karnafuli-Muhuri studies were about three quarters completed. Interim
financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. The feasibility studies
for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects are now substantially completed and
draft reports have been submitted to the Government. Studies of the Comilla-
Noakhali project (Dakatia Unit) are nearing completion and a preliminary draft
report has been submitted to the Government.
Credit No. 487      Second Telecommunications Project; LS$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective on July 23, 1974.






ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                           US.5M million eqiiivalent.to be raised, subject
to approval by the Executive Directors, to US$75
million equivalent after the Fourth IDA Replenish-
ment becomes effective.
Terms:                            Standard
Project Description:              To make available foreign exchange for the
import of raw materials and packing materials
for fertilizer manufacture, spare parts for
low-lift pumps; industrial components, chemi-
cals, raw materials, spare parts and packing
materials to enable selected high priority
industries to maintain or expand their production.
Procurement Arrangements:         Approximately 80 percent of imports financed
by the Association will be procured by the
Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and by
nationalized Section Corporations on behalf of
industrial enterprises, and the balance by
individual private enterprises. For procure-
ment of all goods exceeding US$100,000 (except
for proprietary items) offers from a minimum
of three suppliers will be invited. For
imports under US$100,000 normal commerical
channels will be used. Provision has been made
to reimburse the Government for up to US$10
million for eligible imports paid for after
July 1, 1974 but prior to the date of the credit.
Eligible industries are shown in Annex Ill.
Estimated Disbursements:                              FY75      FY76
First Quarter         -        15
Second Quarter       10         9
Third Quarter        10         6
Fourth Quiarter      20         5
40        35



ANNI;X IV
-3A:_ASS
BF J_i'ADISH
PROPOSED C,TEI`RIEqS AND CEILINGS
RD I:D       PPVGRN C REDIT
Annual        Miad.ium rmount
Import'       of the Credit
C; A T E r 0 P I                            Reguiremend-/    to be `fiithdrawn
(in US' Million)
. A-cilture:
Rai materials, packaging materials
and spare parts for erttilizer
manufacture.                                       0 20.0                1
Sup2e parts for low-lift pumps.                      2.8                 1.0
industry: Raw materials, spare parts,
-eml :' S5 components and packa-ing
ma'er4 a-I for:
J. Jute Industry                                         25.3                12.0
L. Textile Industry                                     150.[                1L;O
.   Parer aind Board Industry                            28.7                1,.(
o.  Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry
(including only manufacture of industrial
chelu cals, glass, soap and pharmaceuticals)         71.2                2).0
7. Sugar Industry (not including the
beverage industry)                                    2.'                 2.5
3. Steel and Foundry Industry                            70.6                20.0
9.  The following export-oriented industries:
tea, processing of shrimp, fish and frog-
legs, and leather                                     7.8                 5.0
1J. Small Scale Industry                                  l0. 4                1.0
11. Construction Industry                                 60.0                25.0
12. Commercial Vehicles Industrv (including
spare parts)                                         10.5                 3.0
TOTALS                  ,h60o.2             4lL6. ,
1/' C'alculated from appraisal mission estimates of production targets which would
be achievable, given current market and industrial operating conditions, il
sufficient foreia n exchange were available for inputs and spare parts.



ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Trade, Aid and Balance of Payments
1.        Bangladesh has been hard hit by the deterioration in the terms
of trade. Average prices of imports in 1973/74 increased by about 65 percent
compared to 1972/73 (see Table 1). On the export side, the decline in quanti-
ties of certain exports whose prices have increased substantially (such as
hessian and newsprint) has resulted in only a small increase in total export
earnings from US$340 million in 1972/73 to US$360 million in 1973/74 (see
Table 2). The overall export quantum rose by less than 1 percent. Raw jute
exports were about 100,000 bales less than last year reflecting a shortfall
in export to India under a bilateral trade agreement. It should however
be noted that the lack of shipping space has contributed to the low level
of hessian and other jute goods exports. Stocks of jute goods sold but not
shipped amounted to 77,000 tons at the end of June 1974 compared to about
65,000 tons a year earlier.
2.        Bangladesh's terms of trade (the import purchasing power of a
given quantum of exports) are estimated to have fallen from 100 in 1972/73
to about 64 in 1973/74. Faced with severe pressure on the limited foreign
exchange resources in late 1973/74, the Government was forced to cut doxwn
non-food imports substantially. The issuance of import licenses against
cash (free foreign exchange) has been temporarily stopped since May 1974.
The opening of letters of credit for foodgrains already contracted during the
first quarter of 1974 was also postponed. Even with these drastic measures
to restrict imports, the deficit on current account increased from US$270
million in 1972/73 to US$550 million in 1973/74 (see Table 3). Despite a
US$37.5 million drawing from the IMF and US$36 million short-term borrowings,
foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$95 million during 1973/74.
Gross foreign exchange reserves at the end of June 1974 amounted to only
US$60 million or less than two weeks of projected 1974/75 import payments.
3.        The already severe balance of payments problem has been intensi-
fied by the terrible floods which could reduce the 1974/75 rice crop by as
much as 1 million tons from the original projection of 12.1 million tons.
There is also no hope for any sizeable increase in export volume over 1973/74
levels since the 1974/75 jute crop is substantially below last year's due
to the low price of jute relative to rice. The combination of stagnant
volumes and increasing prices should bring merchandise exports to about
US$400-410 million in 1974/75. If the foodgrain import requirement rises
to about 2.3 million tons (about US$485 million), the total import require-
ment would become about US$1,400 million. This estimate is based on modest
development capital imports of US$185 million and a modest increase (less
than 10%) in other non-food imaports in real terms. This level of imports,
of course, implies that only modest economic growth can be hoped for in
1974/75.



ANLEX V
Page 2
4.        Based on the US$1,400 million merchandise import requirements, the
net foreign capital inflow requirement is estimated at US$1,030 million. About
an estimated US$505 million could come from the DIF and disbursements from
the currently available aid pipeline.   There is no room for further drawdown
on foreign exchange reserves and hence the remaining US$525 million would
have to be disbursed from additional foreign assistance. To obtain this
level of disbursement, new commitments of about US$915 million are required,
assuming the composition of aid indicated in Table 5 to this Annex.
5.        As important as the required level of new commitments is the
composition and timing. In addition to the US$80 million cash assistance
which might be available from the IMF, primarily to pay for past import
comm,iitments, Bangladesh needs total disbursements of about US$765 million
from food and commodity aid (see Table 4). Bangladesh also requires a
large amount of this food and commodity assistance as soon as possible since
virtually no new imports, except those financed by foreign assistance, have
been ordered during the three months period from June - August 1974. Unless
new import orders can be placed well before the end of December 1974, it
is extremely difficult to avoid import starvation during the rest of 1974/75,
with its consequent effects on industrial production and prices.



ANNEX V
Table 1
FANGLADESF
THIRD INPCRTS PROGRAI' C5REDIT
IMPORT PRICE INDICES
(1972/73   100)
1973/74
Foodgrains                                        194.1
Edible Oil                                        146.1
Crude Petroleum                                   363.)4
Petroleum Products                                218.3
Cotton Yarn                                       178.8
Cotton Text,iles                                  125e4
Cement                                            206.1
Capital Goods                                     115.0
Others                                            19765
Weighted Average                        165.4
Source: IBRD estimates based on information from the Planning Cornrission0



Table 2
THIRD U-C'RTS DROCGRAN CRE3DT'
EXPORTS ALND EXPORT P-'PTICES
1972/73               1973/74
A.  Export Earnings (at current
prices in US$ million)
Raw Jute                                    130.8                 129.4
Jute Manufactures                           17h44                 187.5
Others                                       33.6                  43.8
Total                   338-8                 360.7
B.  Price Indices (1972/73 = 100)
Raw Jute                                    100.0                 103.7
Jute Manufactures                           100.0                 104.3
Others                                      100.0                 12'1.0
1Jeiighted Average                          100l 0                105.7
Source:  IBRD estimates based on information from the Planning Commiission.



ANNEX V
Table 3
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS PRO3RAM CREDIT
BALANCE OF PAYME;NTS
1972/73 - 1974/75
(US$ MilUlon)
Actual       Estimated      Projected
1972/73       1M73/Th        1974 75
1. Imports                                     -650          -875         -1,438-/
2. Exports                                      340           360            410
3. Trade Balance                              -310           -55          -1,028
4. Other Current Account    (net)                40          - 35         -    2
5. Balance on Current Account                  -270          -550         -1,030
6. Net Aid Disbursements from
existing pipeline.   (a)  Grants          205           222            200
(b) Loans             49           200             225
7. IMF Drawings                                  68            37             80d
8. Other Short-term                               -            36
9. Amortization                                   -             -         -   15
10. Adjustment It vms.?                         - 36          - 40             15
11. Changes in Reserves                         - 16            95
12. Uncovered Gap                                  -             -            525
1/  Based on 174/75 imports oi US$1,400 millic plus US$38 million in deferred payments
-  for 1973/74 niports.
2/ Errors and omnissions and adjustments for barter trade.
3/ Assunes US$43 million from the oil facility and US$37 million from the
second tranche.
SOURCE: IBRD estimates and Bangladesh Bank



ANNEX V
Table 4
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS PhDGRAM CREDIT
FINANCING OF IMPORTS 1974/75
(US$ Million)
Total                      Gap to be
Requirements     Cash _inanced by Aid
(1)          ((1)       1) - (2)
Petroleum and Petroleum
Products                          120.00        120.0        -
Zoodgrains                          485.o0        180.0         305.0
Capital Goods                       185.00        -            185.0
Others                              650.00        110.0         540.0
Totals                        1,440.00        410.0      1,030.0
1/  Based on preliminary estimates of foodgrain import requirements
following the recent flood.
2/  Based on requirements to allow a modest increase in industrial
production in 1974/75.
Note: Assumes supplier's credits to be negligible.
SOURCE: IBRD estimates.



ANNEX V
Table 5
BANGLADESH
THIRD INPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
REQUIRED AID DISBURSEMENTS AND COMMTM.ENTS 1974/75#/
Estimated
Tot al
Required     Available
New     (Pipeline plus  Estimated        Estimated
Pipeline on      Commitments   required new   Disbursements   Pipeline on
July 1, 19742/     1974/75    Commitments)    During 1974/75  June 30, 1975
Eood                 50              255          305             305
Non-food Program    260              410          670             540             130
Project             550              250          800             185             615
Total            860             915         1,775           1,030             745
1/ Based on requirements estimated in Annex V, Table 4, not on projections of
currently anticipated commitments which are estimated at about US$600 miliJ.)n.
2/ Source: Table 6.
SOURCE: IBRD estimates.



ANNEX V
Table 6
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMIPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
AID CONMIT-ENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS UP TO JULY 1, 1974
(US$ million)
Food    Non-food     Project     Total
Commitments up to June 30, 1973          430      570          580       1,580
Disbursements up to June 30, 1973        300      380          100         780
Pipeline on July 1, 1973                 130      190          480         800
Commitments during 1973/74               )1!5     180          195         520
Estimated disbursement during
1973/741/                              225      115          125         465
Estimated pipeline on July 1, 1974        50      255          550         855
1/ This is a gross figure and therefore differs from net disbursement figure in
Table 3.
Source: IBRD estimates and Planning Commission



ANNEX V
Table 7
BAN CLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS PROGRAM CREIIT
NON-FOOD COMMODITY AID COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSE4ENTS BY DONOR
127 3/74
(US$ Million)
Estimated Fresh                                Estimated
Pipeline on      Commitments      Total        Estimated    Pipeline on
July 1, 1973   During 1973/74   Available    Disbursements  July 1, 1971
Australia          0.2                -            0.2          0.2
Canada             5.6              6.3           11.9          4.0             7.9
Denmark            2.6              2.4            5.0          2.7             2.3
lFrance             _               4.0            4.0                          4.0
Germany (.ast)     1.0                -            1.0          1.0
Genrany (West)    15.7             16.1           31.8          7.4            24.4
India             23.7             12.q           36.2         11.0            25.2
Japan                              31.9           31.9            _            31.Q
Netherlands        6.o              9.3           15.3          0.8            14.5
New Zealand        1.11             0.5            1.9          1.0             0.Q
Norway             2.9              5.8            8.7          2.7             6.0
Polandl/           1.3                -            1.3          1.3               -
Sweden-           16.1             17.5           33.6         11.3            22.3
United Kingdom    14.4              7.0           21.4          8.3            13.1
U.S.A.            45.9             17.8           63.7         18.8            44.9
U.S.S.R.           6.o                -            6.o          3.3             2.7
IDA               50.0             50.0          100.0         43.7            56.3
Total         192.8            181.1          373.9        117.5           256.4
1/ Excluding the transfer of $1.2 million from project aid commitments to non-food
comnmodity aid.
SOIJRCE: IBRID estimates and Planning Commission.






A\NEX VI
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Short Term Prospects for Principal Industrial Branches
1.        In the case of jute, the major problem is the supply of the
domestically produced raw fiber with this year's crop expected to be one-
third below that of the previous year due mainly to the shift to rice
cultivation. The crop may also suffer from the current floods but it is
too early to assess the actual impact. Nevertheless, the 1974/75 target
for jute manufactures has been set 12 percent higher than last year's out-
put in the expectation that existing stocks of the raw fiber will be drawn
down and that exports of raw jute may be curtailed to provide supplies for
the local mills. The current crop is expected to decline to 4.5 million
bales while stocks of raw jute at the beginning of the crop year were
estimated at 1.6 million bales. In the last two years, raw jute exports
have amounted to 2.8 million bales, but, in order to meet the production
target, such shipments would have to be reduced to some 2.2 million bales
this year to permit consumption by the jute mills to be 3.4 million bales.
2.        Within these limitations, the critical importance of expanding
jute output to maximize foreign exchange earnings will require that special
attention be given to the production problems which have contributed in the
past to a level of output well below the rated capacity of the industry;
even with a projected increase, the target for 1974/75 is still some 15 per-
cent below that capacity. Some progress has been nade in improving labor
relations and in assuring adequate power supplies, elements which contributed
to shortfalls in production in previous periods. However, due to inadequate
maintenance in the past and the shortage of spare parts, many looms remain
out of production.
3.        Due to the departure of non-Bengalis immediately after independence,
the mills have suffered from severe shortage of managerial and technical
staff. To help to overcome these problems, in jute and other industries,
the Government has arranged for a major technical assistance program from
the United Kingdom. In addition to analyzing industrial management problems
in general, conditions affecting specific mills have been studied. Measures
to improve management performance (mainly to delegate appropriate authority to
mill managers, to install appropriate accounting methods, to rationalize
maintenance and control of inventories of spare parts and components, to
make better use of plant workshops to provide certain simple parts and to
provide adequate incentives to management) have been proposed and rapid
implementation is essential not only to achieve the desired output but to
make the industry, which is currently operating at a loss, more efficient.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
4.        Prospects   for continued expansion of sugar production are
extremely bright. Refinery.output rose from 19,000 tons in 1972/73 to
88,000 tons in 1973/74 and is expected to go well over 100,000 tons in
1974/75, surpassing the pre-independence period. The present capacity of
the mills, owing to the pre-independence policies which led to over-invest-
ment, is almost 170,000 tons although some of the installations are obsolete
and will be taken completely out of production shortly.
5.        Exports of molasses from the last year's production are now being
negotiated. Some exports of refined sugar are expected this year. Given
current buoyant world market conditions for this commodity, considerable
efforts are being made to develop a substantial export surplus. The Govern-
ment hopes to export at least 10,000 tons if the 1974/75 target is achieved.
In addition to managing the 15 sugar refineries within this industry, the
Sugar Industries Corporation operates a number of cane plantations, provides
assistance to private cane growers, and conducts a major program to expand
cane output. Finally, measures are being taken to improve the quality of
the cane to increase the refinery yield which is relatively low.
6.        The cotton textile industry has made considerable progress in
the utilization of its facilities with marked improvements during the year
in labor relations and by reducing loss of machine-hours due to power
shortages. Nevertheless, the shortage of imported spare parts has continued
to hamper production. Since the sector is highly dependent upon imports of
raw cotton and other minor raw materials, the present foreign exchange
shortage represents a major obstacle to the attempts by these enterprises
to achieve fuller utilization of capacity. This will require timely
deliveries of basic inputs. A number of cloth mills were already ex-
periencing in July 1974 difficulties in maintaining finishing operations
because of the shortage of caustic soda and other chemicals.
7.        The industry's financial capacity was also being threatened by
the failure of the public sector agencies which are responsible for
distribution of both yarn and cloth to lift the supplies being made avail-
able. Given an accumulation at the mills of about three months' stock of
those items, the Government was considering major changes in the distribution
arrangements including increasing the role of the private sector, to insure
that these products would be adequately marketed in the face of shortages
and rising prices in local markets.
8.        Assistance to review the economic and technical conditions
facing this industry has been obtained from the United Kingdom. Recom-
mendations have been made on a number of aspects, including rationalization
of output (in particular cloth finishing), control of spare parts inven-
tories and increasing local production of spares; implementation of these
measurcs is now under consideration.



ANNEX VI
Page 3
9.        The fertilizer industry also h.as shown an important expansion in
output. Production in 1973/74 of urea at the two existing plants (based on
domestic natural gas) was well above the level of previous years but operating
and imechanical difficulties prevented achievement of capacity.   The larger
urea plant is expected to be out of production most of the year due to an
explosion in early September and the other plant will have to undergo a major
overhaul during the present fiscal year. Consequently, output will fall
below the 1973/74 peak. On the other hand, the small ammonium sulfate plant
has recently been operating close to full capacity and is expected to continue
at high output levels, although this may be adversely affected by the diffi-
culties in obtaining imported sulfur.
10.       A TSP plant with capacity for 150,000 tons per annum, which was
started in 1968, was completed during 1973/74 but was not able to operate
because of the lack of appropriate rock phosphate inputs. Deliveries of this
material were finally obtained but during the breaking-in process in July
1974 a mechanical failure occurred; the necessary spare part to permit proper
operation was expected to arrive by early September. Given the normal time
required for proper initiation of output the plant is expected to produce
only between 25 to 40 percent of its rated capacity during the present fiscal
year.
11.       The chemical and pharmaceutical industries (aside from fertilizer)
within the public sector comprise 36 plants producing a wide variety of
items (e.g. soap, glass, industrial chemicals, plastics, matches and resins),
with a high dependence on imported inputs. All of these enterprises have
suffered from the shortage of imports and have been operating well below
rated capacity, although during 1973/74 most did exceed the output recorded
in 1972/73. Prospects for the current fiscal year, in the face of the
limited allocation of foreign exchange, are rather bleak. IrL the particular
case of matches, a substantial proportion of output used to be exported to
West Pakistan so that existing capacity exceeds local demand.
12.       The engineering and shipbuilding sub-sectors also represent
groupings within the public sector of relatively large scale enterprises
producing an extremely heterogeneous range of products, for example, tin
cans, the assembly of buses and trucks, assembly of radios and television
sets, fans, cables and wires, jute and tea processing machinery and diesel
pumps. All of these products are heavily dependent upon either imported
components (e.g. the assembly industries) or imported intermediates. In
addition, within the private sector there are numerous small metal-working
shops (foundries), providing spare parts and repair facilities for the stock
of machinery, equipment and vehicles in the country. These are based on
imported pig iron and other metals.
13.       Most of the facilities in the engineering sub-sector now under
public sector control were established to serve both East and West Pakistan
and face major problems in adjusting to the new situation. Reflecting the
distortions arising from price and exchange rate policies followed in the
pre-independence period (see Chapter VI of The Basic Economic Report), these
plants were based on high protection and many have over-capacity even in
relation to the market offered by the previous integrated Pakistani economy.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
Moreover, the enterprises capable of producing machinery and equipment are
oriented toward manufacturing finished items rather than spare parts which
are the critical need of the economy at this time. Thus the task of ration-
alizing the output-mix is a particularly difficult one.
14.       While the Government hopes to achieve some exports from these
industries given the present high level of world demand for these items, a
major effort will be required to adapt production techniques to meet export
standards as well as to produce at reasornably competitive prices. The pos-
sibilities for adjustments in the output-mix of the affected firms, including
adaptations required for export and necessary export marketing efforts, will
be explored by an industrial sector mission scheduled to visit the country in
early 1975.
15.       Another heterogeneous grouping within the public sector which has
substantial import requirements is the food and allied Droducts industries.
Most of the items produced by these enterprises for the domestic market (e.g.
canned food, tobacco products, beverages and confectionary and bakery products)
are not considered essential consumer goods given the low per capita income
of Bangladesh. Moreover, two of the largest import commodities, tobacco and
crude materials for edible oil production, are not eligible for IDA financing.
On the other hand, frozen shrimp and fish, produced primarily for export, have
relatively small import needs of critical items, such as packaging materials,
which are necessary to meet export standards. In view of excellent world
market conditions for shrimp, fish and froglegs, efforts are being made to
expand output of this industry and required imports would be eligible for
finance under the proposed Third Imports Program Credit.
16.       In spite of rather limited timber resources, Bangladesh boasts a
reasonably efficient paper and board industry, drawing upon a wide variety
of sources of fibers; moreover, an important share of output is being ex-
ported and there are excellent prospects for expansion. Production of news-
print, other printing, writing and wrapping papers, as well as rayon and
cellophane, are essentially based on locally produced pulps but a small in-
put of imported long-fiber chemical pulp is required in each case to provide
necessary strength and other technical characteristics. For the board pro-
ducts (e.g. hardboard), small but essential amounts of imported chemicals
are also needed. Thus, availability of imports is a critical factor in
achieving capacity utilization. Other elements which have affected output
since independence include inadequate maintenance which has led to extended
shutdowns aggravated by a shortage of imported spare parts, interruptions
in power supply for those plants which do not generate their own power,
maintenance problems in those cases of self-generated power and the shortage
of managerial and technical cadres.
17.       Nevertheless, 1973/74 witnessed considerable improvement in
capacity utilization of existing plant as well as the bringing on stream of
a new paper mill at Pabna which had actually initiated trial production in
1970 but could not be commissioned until late 1973. (See production data in
Table 1 of this Annex). Not only was there a substantial increase in output



ANLNEX VI
Page 5
of paper but output of hardboard, particle board and cellophane rose as well,
permitting exports of these items to nearby markets. The only product which
recorded a decline was newsprint, produced in a mill at Khulna where dif-
ficulties have been experienced in the self-generated power supply; measures
are being taken to obtain power from the local grid system as well as to make
immediate improvements in the plant's boiler.
18.       The main fiber sources include an indigenous short-fibered wood
species (gewa) used for newsprint; bamboo used for printing and writing
papers as well as for rayon and cellophane; jute sticks used mainly for
particle board but also for writing paperE; bagasse for writing papers;
and sundari wood for hardboard. In the short-run, there appear to be few
problems in the supply of these materials but longer-run growth of the in-
dustry will depend upon measures to improve access to these materials as well
as more intensive plantation development which has been ignored in the recent
period. It should also be noted that the dependence on imports of chemical
pulp will be reduced in the course of 1975 when a chemical pulp mill at
Sylhet, based on bamboo, is expected to begin production.
19.       Provided the necessary chemical pulp and spare parts can be
imported and that measures are taken to improve maintenance, prospects are
for increased production of all items in 1974/75, and a further expansion
in exports. In the case of newsprint, foreign sales are expected to account
for more than half of output as compared to about 40 percent in the past year.
For hardboard, the share of exports is expected to reach almost 25 percent of
output.
20.       Related to the question of newsprint supplies available for ex-
port is the current price policy. The Government has been fixing domestic
price considerably below the cost of production for that commodity as well
as the potential export price; this has also been the principal factor
underlying the loss recorded by the public sector corporation responsible
for these products. Consideration is being given to raising the domestic
price which would avoid a drain on public finances and would increase the
supplies available for export by reducing domestic demand.
21.       Construction activities in Bangladeslh are heavily dependent upon
imported cement. In the face of a "normal" demand, based on 1969/70 require-
ments of 1 to 1.2 million tons of that commodity, the country has but one
cement plant whose capacity is estimated at 90,000 tons per year taking into
account certain obsolete pieces of equipment; the plant first started opera-
tions in 1939. Moreover, the bulk of the limestone must be imported as there
are few currently exploited local deposits of that material; requirments of
gypsum are also imported.
22.       During 1973/74, production at the plant reached only 55,000 tons
due mainlv to the shortage of imported limestone and difficulties in obtain-
ing gypsum. In 1974/75, it is hoped to achieve full capacity utilization
as arrangements have been nade for limestone supplies from India.



ANNEX VI
Page 6
23.       In 1967, construction was undertaken of a plant at Chittagong
to grind clinker, capacity at 300,000 tons per annum. It was only in July
1974 that trial operations were able to begin at this plant. It is ex-
pected that total output for this year will amount to some 150,000 tons,
about half of capacity, due to the time required to break in the equipment.
Attainment of this level of production will require the import of clinker.
Some gypsum will also have to be imported but the plant hopes to obtain most
of its supplies of this commodity from the TSP factory which is also expected
to begin production during the year.
24.       Difficulties in purchasing cement supplies in world markets have
severely hampered all construction activities. Industry sources estimate
that only 400,000 tons were available in 1973/74, less than half the "normal"
requirements. For 1974/75, with the increase in locally produced cement
from the plant and from the grinding of clinker and with an anticipated
improvement in availabilities abroad, domestic supply is expected to reach
800,000 tons. Other imported construction materials, such as corrugated
iron sheet, are also in very short supply.
25.       Another industry with links to construction is steel.   A steel
mill was constructed at Chittagong, beginning production in 1967. After
expansions undertaken in 1969 and 1970, the mill has rated capacity of
250,000 tons of ingots with facilities for bar, sheet and heavy plate pro-
duction. Design failures associated with the expansions have been encountered
and it has been suggested that a more realistic maximum under the present lay-
out would be 200,000 tons (ingot). However, the mill has not been able to
produce more than 100,000 tons mainly because of the disruptions during and
immediately after independence. At the present time, the major difficulty in
raising output is the shortage of imported inputs. Production is based on
imports of pig iron, iron ore, ferro-alloys, dolomite and limestone; most
scrap also has to be imported although there is some local supply. In addi-
tion, practically all spare parts and consumables such as refractories and
moulds are from external sources. During 1973/74, the mill was forced to
draw down almost completely its stock of inputs so that in July 1974, while
awaiting a shipment of pig iron, it was only able to use one of its four
furances, for a while with 100 percent scrap charge.
26.       The steel mill also produces some steel sheets (mainly galvanized
sheet) and heavy plate, the latter for the local shipyards and railroad car
construction. Production of flat products has been well below capacity
which had been designed for the integrated Pakistani market.
27.       A relatively small branch in terms of output and employment,
tanneries are nonetheless of considerable importance because of the large
share of production which is exported and the potential for growth in terms
of volume and further processing. While basically dependent on local supplies
of hides, these enterprises have small but important requirements for imported
chemicals.   the public sector corporation, there are 24 plants now
operating, representing "abandoned" properties. These facilities have capa-
city to finish about 500,000 pieces of cowhide for use mainly for local shoe



ANNEX VI
Page 7
production; the main product is, however, a semi-finished leather called
"wet-blue", from both cow and goat hides, the bulk of which is exported.
In addition to these plants in the public sector, there are a large number
of tanneries in the private sector. Complete data are not available on
private sector capacity but it is estimated to be similar in total size to
that of the government-owned enterprises.
28.       The plants in the public sector have experienced considerable
difficulty in restoring production because of the loss of managerial and
technical personnel. As compared to estimated capacity of 18 million wet-
blue goatskins, their output has reached between 1 and 2 million skins in the
last two years. Only slight improvement is expected during 1974/75. On the
other hand available information indicates considerable growth in activity
in the private sector plants which currently are believed to account for at
least 75 percent of the export volume in this category. These enterprises
are now also producing leather at further stages of elaboration and are
finding excellent export opportunities. The recent lifting of the ceiling
on private investment is expected to lead to additional capacity for leather
finishing as these processes require relatively substantial capital expansion
not possible under the previous policy.






BANGTs
PRODIU'ICI lRD OF SEIZCTED PUBLIC SECTOR Dt''STRIES
I tern                                       'Jnit      1969/70  1972/73      1973;'L      197L4<    Comp&zi-son w_th 1969,'70
Actual   Actual  Original Actual  Ta:get   f   in oercenta-es
Target L                   1973774          197
Actual          Ta.rget
Jute                                         1,000 tons           561     445    635      500      560        89            100
Textile - Yarn                               million lbs.         106      81    123       91      110        86            104
- Cloth                              miillion yds.         59      59     95       79      100       134            170
Steel - Ingot                                1,000 tons            54      68     120       74      130      137             241
- Heavy and thin plates and sheets     l,OO0 tons          12.4    18.0    20.6    17.1     28.0        138            226
Engineering - Commercial Vehicles            numbers              455   1,228   2,200    2,068    2,200       455            484
- Diesel engines                 numbers            1,284   1,353   1,750   1,720    4,200        134            327
- Galvanized iron and steel pipe tons               5,134   2,800   4,000   3,661     3,000       71              58
Paper - Writing and printing paper            1,000 tons           31      21      41       24       34        77            110
- Newsprint                            1,000 tons            3°      27      38       26       35        72            97
- Particle board                       tons               5,1422  1,498   3,140    2,040    3,000        38             55
- Hardboard                            million sq. ft.     15.1     5.9    15.5     15.7     16.2       104            107
- Rayon yarn                            tons              2,747   1,942   2,715    2,118    2,400        77             87
Fertilizer - Urea                             1,000 tons           96     236     285      279      325       291            339
- Ammonium Sulfate                 1,000 tons          4.7     6.0    10.0     10.3     10.0       219            213
Pharmaceuticals - Tablets                     million nos.        397     119     274      198      293        50             74
- Injectables                million nos.         3.5     0.9     1.2      0.9      1.4        26            10
Glass Sheet                                   million sq. ft.     5.5     7.3     5.5      5.7      7.3       104            133
Soaps - Toilet, laundry, powder               1,000 tons          8.3     8.0     ..      10.6     16.9       128            159
Food - Edible Oils                            1,000 tons           11      10      24       19       27       173            245
- Fish Processing                       1,000 lbs.         2,502   1,115   2,666    3,009    3,400       120            136
- Tobacco                               million sticks     1,2141  1,144   2,960    1,040    1,390        814           11
Sugar                                         1,000 tons           93      19     100c/     88      133        95            143
Cement                                        1,000 tons           40      32     188       55      2140      138            600
a/ A revision of these targets was prepared in late 1973, lowering considerably those for jute, paper and newsprint.
_/ Includes one plant in 1969/70 but two in subsequent time periods.
c/ Target includes output from a second plant (based on grinding of clinker) which was expected to initiate operations in 1973/714.
d/ Includes 150 from second plant which began operations in July 19714.
Source: Planning Conmission, sector corporations and mission estimates; 1973/714 actual production data are preliminary,
data for prior periods have been revised.






ANNEX VII
BAN GLADESH
THIRD IMPORIS PROGRAMI CREDIT
UTILIZATIONI BY SECTOR Or' THE TWO PREVIOUS IMPORTS CREDITSi/
(in US$ Million)
Credit     Credit
Catego                                       345-D      458-BD       Total
Agricultural Equipment                        9.28   not eligible     9.28
Fertilizers and Raw Materials
for fertilizer manufacture                    5.82        .12 -       5.94
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare Parts, Balancing Equipment and
Packing Materials for:
Jute Industry                            1.94       4.12         6.06
Textile Industry                         9.99       9.98        19.97
Paper and Board Industry                 0.74       1.50         2.24
Food and Allied Products Industry        3.07       1.36         4.43
Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry     5.24       8.88        1h.12
Sugar Industry                           0.32       0.73         1.05
Steel and Foundry Industry               0.42       8.51         8.93
Commercial Vehicle Industry              6.59       3.16         9.75
3/
Small-Scale Industry                     0.12       0.04         0.16-
Construction Industry                    1.35       6.37         7.72
Shipbuilding Industry                    3.60       0.86         4.46
Telecommunications Industry              0.18    not eligible    0.18
48.66      45.63        94.29
SOURCE: Bangladesh Bank
1/ Figures indicate amounts of letters of credit approved by the Bangladesh Bank
as of July 31, 1974.  Until all contracts under these letters of credit have
been finalized, these figures will remain subject to change.
2   Low figure indicates difficulty in procuring fertilizers in January-June 1974
shipping period.
3/ Low figi're reflects that the time reqcaired by BSIC to distribute credit proceeds
to its clients is substantially longer than for the larger public sector
corporations.



