CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 515 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 515 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1974, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower desires to improve the utilization of its existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of imports required for the foregoing; and
(C)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods required
for the carrying out of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amnount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1985, and ending July 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Bangladesh Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Records
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications issue, or cause
to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required to carry
out the Project;
(ii)        in order to speed up imports and the use of the proceeds of
the Credit, issue said import licenses in respect of goods eligible
for financing from the proceeds of the Credit and proposed to
be so financed, in excess of the amount of the Credit;
(iii)       make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as
needed, such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required
to import goods to be financed out of.the proceeds of the Credit;
(iv)        take all such action as shall appear necessary or convenient to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(v)         use its best efforts to ensure that at least one third of the
aggregate amounts to be withdrawn under Category 12 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be utilized for the purchase
of spare parts for commercial vehicles.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(b)   enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and


﻿6
(c)   furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the program (referred to in Schedule
2 to this Agreement) of which the Project is a part, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The date November 15, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twelve years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
(Planning Commission)
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca


﻿7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s!/ M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goG.s eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the maximum amount of the
Credit which may be withdrawn for the financing of any such Category.
Maximum Amount
of the Credit
Which May be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalents)
Agriculture:
(1)   Raw materials, packaging                        12,000,000
materials and spare parts
for fertilizer manufacture
(2)   Spare parts for engines                           1,000,000
for low-lift pumps
Industry: Raw materials, spare
parts, chemicals, components
and packaging materials for:
(3)   Jute industry                                   12,000,000
(4)   Textile industry                                25,000,000
(5)   Paper and board industry                         15,000,000
(6)   Chemical and pharmaceutical                     25,000,000
industry (limited to manu-
facture of industrial chem-
icals, glass, soap and
pharmaceuticals)
(7)   Sugar industry (excluding                        2,500,000
the beverage industry)
(8)   Steel and foundry industry                      20,000,000
(9)   Selected export-oriented                         5,000,000
industries limited to: tea;
processing of shrimp, fish
and froglegs; and leather


﻿9
Maximum Amount
of the Credit
Which May be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Category                                     Dollar Equivalents)
(10) Small scale industry                                1,000,000
(11) Construction industry                              25,000,000
(12) Commercial vehicles industry                        3,000,000
(including spare parts)
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1974
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower, to be carried out
during the period between July 1, 1974 and December 31, 1976, to make available
foreign exchange for the import of goods into the territories of the Borrower for
the purpose of improving the efficient utilization of existing productive capacity
in the agricultural and industrial sectors (including manufacturing and construction).


﻿11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for the procurement of goods to be financed
from  the proceeds of the Credit the cost of which is equivalent to $100,000 or
more:
(a)   offers shall be invited from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer; and
(c)   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, the details of the offers sought, the names
of the firms invited to submit offers, a summary of the offers submitted and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. In the event the
lowest offer is not accepted, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association
the analysis and evaluation of offers and reasons for the award to the successful
supplier. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs of this
Schedule, whenever the Borrower and the Association are satisfied that goods of
a specific type, design or manufacture are required in the interest of equipment
standardization or of other valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization
of existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a negotiated basis
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


