CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 858 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 329 TUN
Project Agreement
(Tourism Infrastructure Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE NATIONAL DU TOURISME ET DU THERMALISME
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 858 TUN
CREDIT NUMBER 329 TUN
Project Agreement
(Tourism Infrastructure Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE NATIONAL DU TOURISME ET DU THERMALISME
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1972, between INTERNATIONALBANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and OFFICE NATIONAL DU TOURISME ET DU THERMALISME
(hereinafter called ONTT).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ONTT agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has also agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that ONTT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fir
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called Kreditanstalt), a Krperschaft des Offentlichen
Rechts existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, a loan in
an amount not exceeding forty million German Marks equivalent to about twelve
million four hundred thousand dollars ($12,400,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project under terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to to be
entered into between the Borrower and Kreditanstalt;
WHEREAS ONTT intends to enter into a separate project agreement with
Kreditanstalt for the purpose of the Project; and
WHEREAS ONTT, in consideration inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Subsidiary" means any company or "etablissement public"
effectively controlled by ONTT or by any one or more subsidiaries of ONTT or
by ONTT and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ONTT shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound planning, administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the personnel of ONTT's Direction des
Travaux, ONTT shall employ consultants acceptable to the Bank and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
(b)   ONTT shall, at all times, cause its Direction des Travaux to be headed
by a Director acceptable to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist ONTT in preparing each of the plan
d'amnagement referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement ONTT shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.04. In order to ensure that the Project be carried out effectively
and on schedule, ONTT shall prepare and regularly update a critical path plan
in consultation with STEG, SONEDE and the Borrower's departments or agencies
concerned with the Project.
Section 2.05. ONTT shall supervise the studies to be undertaken under Part
C of the Project.
Section 2.06. ONTT shall be responsible for the carrying out of the
promotional program to be undertaken under Part E of the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.07. (a) In order to: (i) assist the Special Unit HAR in carrying
out Part A (3) of the Project; and (ii) carry out the detailed engineering required
for Part B (3) of the Project, ONTT shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association.
(b)   In order to: (i) assist the Borrower's Service des Operations Speciales
in fulfilling its obligations under paragraph (a) of Section 3.09 of the Loan
Agreement; (ii) carrying out the detailed engineering required for Part B (2) of
the Project, and (iii) administer and supervise the construction of Lots 5 referred
to in Schedule 4 (1) to the Loan Agreement to be undertaken under Part A (1)
of the Project; ONTT shall employ consultants acceptable to the Bank and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.08. Within eighteen months of this Agreement, or such other time
limit as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, ONTT shall complete
a study for the purpose of improving the efficiency of the Borrower's existing
hotel and tourism industry investment incentive system.
Such a study shall take into consideration, inter alia:
(i)         the extent of the adequacy, from an economic standpoint, of
the overall level of the Borrower's hotel and tourism industry
investment incentive system,
(ii)        the need to establish appropriate selectivity criteria relating the
amount of benefits granted to investors in the hotel and tourism
industry, under the Borrower's hotel and tourism industry
investment incentive system to the (A) location and (B) category
of hotels to be constructed within the Borrower's territories:
(A)   in order to foster concentration of hotel and tourism
industry investment in the Project Zones, such criteria
shall be such as to make the benefits granted to such
investors within such zones, until 1977, or such other date
as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
more favorable than the benefits granted to such investors
without such zones.
(B)   similarly such criteria shall be such as to bring the category
patterns in the Project Zones more closely in line with


﻿6
(1) the patterns set forth in the general master plan
recently established by the Borrower, and (2) the expected
trend of the international hotel and tourism industry
market,
(iii)      the measures to be taken in order to simplify the existing
procedures to grant benefits to investors in hotel and tourism
industry under the Borrower's hotel and tourism industry
investment incentive system.
Section 2.09. ONTT shall, before June 30, 1974, or such other date as the
Bank or the Association shall otherwise agree, submit for approval to the Bank
and the Association the final choice for the system of sewage treatment and disposal
in the Project Zone of Sousse.
Section 2.10. In carrying out Part A of the Project, except for minor works
regarding the connections of users' facilities to the respective infrastructure
networks, ONTT shall, unless the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
employ contractors acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than services of consultants), required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.12. (a) ONTT undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall -be payable in a
currency freely usable by ONTT to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree, ONTT
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.13. (a) ONTT shall furnish to the Bank and the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract


﻿7
documents, construction and procurement schedules and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ONTT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Bank's
and Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank and the Association all such information as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.14. ONTT shall submit to the Bank and the Association a
comprehensive coordinated schedule based on the progress schedules for the
implementation of the studies pertaining to plan d'aminagenent, road and sewerage
referred to in Part B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project after having had such
comprehensive coordinated schedule approved by the Comitd de Coordination
Technique.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of ONTT
Section 3.01. (a) ONTT shall at all times conduct its operations and affairs
under capable and efficient management.
(b)   Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing ONTT shall,
during the implementation of the Project (i) maintain its Direction des Travaux,
and (ii) cause such Direction des Travaux to be provided with adequate funds
and staffed, inter alia, with engineers, urban planners, architects, economists,
lawyers and accountants as shown in the Organization Chart set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, or such other organization chart as may be agreed with the
Bank and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
ONTT shall not undertake or execute, for its own account or for the account
of any third party or parties, any new project or development other than the
Project, which might interfere with its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿8
Section 3.03. ONTT shall not, without the consent of the Bank and the
Association, contract any debt which might interfere with its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) ONTT shall, except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers and franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying
out its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, ONTT
shall not create or acquire any subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ONTT shall cause its Direction des Travaux to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ONTT shall: (i) have the accounts and the financial statements
of its Direction des Travaux for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the Association; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank and the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank and the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ONTT's Direction des Travaux and the audit thereof
as the Bank and the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Bank, the Association and ONTT shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan and the Credit will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank, the Association and ONTT shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of ONTT's Direction des Travaux
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Loan and the Credit.


﻿9
Section 5.02. The Bank, the Association and ONTT shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit or the performance
by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. ONTT shall enable the Bank's and the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect all works, properties and offices of ONTT.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, the Association
and ONTT thereunder shall terminate on the later of the following two dates:
(a)   the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(b)   the date on which the obligations of the Borrower referred to in
Section 6.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with the terms of such Section.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿10
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
For ONTT:
Office National du Tourisme et
du Thermalisme
1, Avenue Mohamed V
Tunis, Tunisia
Telex:
381 Comtourism
Tunis
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ONTT may be taken or executed by its Directeur Gdndral or such other person
or persons as such Directeur General shall designate in writing.


﻿II
Section 7.03. ONTT shall furnish to the Bank and the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ONTT, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by ONTT pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President
OFFICE NATIONAL DU TOURISME
ET DU THERMALISME
By /s / Slaheddine El Goulli
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Bidders will be required to prequalify and ONTT shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank and the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by ONTT to the Bank and the
Association for their comments before the applicants are notified and ONTT shall
make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, (i)
whenever it is feasible, the Borrower shall have separate contracts for the purpose
of the Project Zones of Djerba and Zarzis on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the other Project Zones, and when it is not feasible to have such separate
contracts the Borrower shall, in each global contract, identify the lot or lots for
the purpose of the Project Zones of Djerba and Zarzis; and (ii) road sections shall
be grouped for the purposes of call for tenders in lots as specified in Schedule
4 (1) to the Loan Agreement. The Road Sections included in Lots 1 and 2 shall
be assembled into sub-lots, and the bidders shall be allowed to present offers for
one or any combination of sub-lots. Bids for the respective sub-lots under Lot
1 and Lot 2 shall be called for simultaneously. Bids for parts of Lot 5 shall be
called for as appropriate over the period of implementation of the Project.
(c)   Before bids are invited, ONTT shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association, for their comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's and the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ONTT shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank and the Association of the
name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish


﻿13
to the Bank and the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the Borrower's departments and agencies, STEG
and SONEDE, and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank and the
Association shall, if they determine that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.11 of this Agreement,
promptly inform ONTT and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
and the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
and the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank and the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works and equipment, ONTT
shall furnish to the Bank and the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank and the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank and the Association shall reasonably request. The Bank and the Association
shall, if they determine that the award of the contract is not consistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, promptly
inform ONTT and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for equipment and associated services
included in Category 1I of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in
accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank and the Association)
in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)        the ex-factory price of such goods including all taxes, except
production and consumption taxes; and


﻿14
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (Tunis) price of such goods;
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    The calls for bids for Lot 5 under Schedule 4 (1) of the Loan Agreement
shall be permitted to be advertised only locally.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Organization Chart of the Direction des Travaux
DIRECTEUR GENERAL
OF ONTT
COMITE DE
COORDINATION
TECHNIQUE
ADMINISTRATION
1    Director
1    Assistant to Director
1    Lawyer
SECRETARIAT]
1    Secretary to Director
1    Secretary-Archivist
4    Secretaries
PROGRAMMING               TECHNICAL COORDINATION         FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION
1*   Engineer Expert on          1*   Engineer Coordinator       1    Division Chief
Planning                   1    Electrical & Telecom-       1*   Chief Accountant
1*   Tourism Economist                munication Engineer        3    Accountants
1    Lawyer (Real Estate)       2     Technical Assistants       1    Stock Room Officer
1*   Senior Resort and          2     Draftsmen                  1    Supply Officer
Regional Planner                                            I    Customs Clearance
1*   Deputy Resort and                                                Officer
Regional Planner               Technical Control and        10   General Staff
Supervision
1*   Engineer
4    Supervisors of works
*    Expatriate Staff


