Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11682-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAI. INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     =       Malagasy Franc (FMG)
USS 1                                      1,899 FMG (March 1993)
=       1,833 FMG (average for 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                    BritishtUS Eauivalent
1 meter (m)                       =       3.28 foet
1 square meter (sq. m)            =       10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                  =       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (sq. km)       =       0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AON    =         Appels d'Offres Negatives (Liquidity Withdrawal)
AOP    =         Appels d'Offres Positives (Liquidity Injection)
BCRM   =         Banque Centrale de la Republique Malgache (Central Bank)
BFV     =        Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra (State-Owned Commercial Bank)
BITS    =        Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation
BMOI   =         Banque Malgache de l'Ocean Indien (Private Commercial Bank)
BNI    =         Bankin'ny Indostria (Private Commercial Bank)
BTA     =        Bon du TrEsor par Adjudication (Short-Term Treasury Bill)
BTC     =        Bon du TrEsor Classique (Medium-Term Treasury Bond)
BTM     =        Bankin'ny Tantsana Mpamokatra (Stae-Owned Commercial Bank)
CCBEF  =         Commission de Contr6le des Banques et Etablissements Financiers
(Financial Supervisory Commission)
CCP    =         Compte de Chequer Postaux (Postal Checking Institution)
CD      =        Certificates of deposit
CEM     =        Caisse d'Epargne de Madagascar (Postal Savings Institution)
CNAPS  =         Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociak (Social Security Fund)
CNFPB  =         Centre National de Formation de la Profession Bancaire (School of Banking Training)
CPI     =        Consumer Price Index
IASC    =        Intenational Accounting Standards Committee
IFAC    =        Intenational Federation of Accountants
INSCAE =         Institut National des Sciences Comptabia et de l'Administration des Entreprises
(School of Business Management and Accounting)
NGO    =         Non-govemmental Organization
NPCB   =         Nouveau Plan Comptable Bancaire (New Banking Chart of Accounts)
PCM     =        Plan Comptable Malgache (1987 General Chart of Accounts)
PIT     =        Postal and Teleommunications Services
SA      =        Societe Anonyme (Private Limited Company)
SDP     =        Plan StratEgique de DEveloppement (Strategic Development Plan of BCRM and
CCBEF)
SILI    =        Syst&me d'Importations Liberalis&a (Open General License)
SME    =         Small and Medium Enterprises
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Deenmber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPR
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                            ...................... (i)
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................................... 1
II.     THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM  .......................................  2
A.      Macroeconomic Context .........................................   2
- Background .......................................... 2
- Recent Developments  .........................................  3
B.      The Financial Sector .........................................                                   4
- Recent Developments  .........................................  4
- Required Institutional and Policy Reforms  ........             ....................  6
- Financial Sector Strategy  .......................................  7
C.      The BCRM  (Central Bank)  ........................................   9
D.      The CCBEF (Financial Supervisory Commission) .........................  13
E.      The Commercial Banks  .........................................   14
F.      The Insurance Sector .........................................                                  14
G. The Social Security Fund.                                                                            15
H.      Postal Financial Services .............................   15
I.      The Payments System   .............................   16
J.      Financial Markets .............................   16
K.  Accounting and Audit Framework .............................. 16
III.  THE PROJECT .............................  18
A.      Project Objectives and Scope .............................   18
B.  Rationale for IDA Involvement . ............................. 19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Madagascar from Pebruary 20, 1993, to March
5, 1993, comprising of Messrs/MMme Govindan Nair, financial economist, (AF31E - mission leader and task manager); Simon
Gray, economist, (AF31E); Maud Borg (consultant, central bank mauagement); and Ake Andolf (consultant, information
systems). Mr. Khalid Siraj (ASTlF) was Iead reviewer and Mr. P"cal Bouvier (IMF) was peer reviewer. Contributions are
acknowledged from Mrs. Claudine Morin, lawyer (LEGAF), and Mr. Colin Lyle, auditing and accounting specialist (AFTCP).
Messrs. Stokes and Thomet, respectively consultants for USAID and the Swiss Government, also participated in various aspects
of the appraisal mission. Bilingual seretarial support was provided by Mrs. Franqoise Schatten, staff assistant, (AF31E).
Messrs. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa (AF3DR) and Michael N. Sarris (AP31E) are respectively the Department Director and the
managing Division Chief for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C.     Project Description .......................  ....  ....  .....  ....  ..    .   19
1. Restructuring BCRM   ...........           .............................   19
2. Strengthening CCBEF  ..........             .............................  23
3. Improving the Accounting and Audit Framework .......................  24
4. Support to State Bank Privatization  ...............................  25
D. Project Costs.                                                                                25
E. Project Financing .26
F.     Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review .26
G. Procurement .27
H. Disbursements .29
I.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .30
J. Project Supervision .30
IV.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .................................  31
A.     Project Benefits .      .........................................  31
B.     Project Risks .       ..........................................   31
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                   ..   32
ANNEXES
1. Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development Policy
2. Madagascar: Monetary Survey, 1986-1992
3. Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities:
Summary Description of First Year Tasks.
4. BCRM Informatics Program
5. Project Costs
6. Estimated Disbursement Profile
7. Implementation Schedule for Key Project Components
8. Monitorable Actions under the Project
9. Project Supervision Plan
10. Terms of Reference for BCRM Coordinator of Strategic
Planning and Development



MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boffower:    Republic of Madagascar.
Beneficiaries: Central Bank of the Republic of Madagascar (BCRM), Financial Supervisory Commission
(CCBEF), Ministry of Finance.
Amount:      SDR 4.6 million (US$6.3 million equivalent).
Terms:       Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity.
PRelending   Government passes SDR 3.5 million of the Credit to
ITrms:       BCRM on a grant basis.
Objectives:   The project objective is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by
improving the functioning of the financial system. This is in line with the Bank's country
assistance strategy which emphasizes increased private sector savings and investment as
engines for future growth. The project aims at strengthening key financial institutions and
markets in Madagascar (including privatization of the two remaining state banks), thereby
enhancing public trust in them and enabling them to mobilize savings to meet the
investment financing needs of the private sector. The project will be implemented in the
context of the Government's Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development
Policy adopted in March 1993. Specifically, the project would aim at: (i) enhancing the
Central Bank's (BCRM) ability to formulate and conduct monetary policy based on
indirect instruments; (ii) improving the prudential supervision environment through the
strengthening of the Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF); (iii) formulating and
enforcing accounting audit and financial disclosure standards based on international
norms; and (iv) supporting the privatization of state banks.
Project
Description:  The project consists of:
(a)   restructuring BCRM, the Central Bank, principally through improvements in its
research, open market, treasury, internal audit and accounting operations, and
through the implementation of information technology and human resource
development plans;
(b)   strengthening CCBEF, the Financial Supervisory Commission, with technical
assistance to create an effective supervision structure, training for inspectors and
equipment for on- and off- site surveillance;
(c)   improving the accounting and audit enviroment, through two sets of activities:
(i) training and technical assistance activities to accelerate the development of the



- ii -
accounting profession and to ensure the availability of reliable financial
information on enterprises based on international standards; and (ii) specific
technical assistance and training to bankers, auditors and other professionals to
establish, disseminate and implement transparent international accounting and
audit procedures for commercial banks and financial institutions; and
(d)    supporting the privatization of banks in the context of an ongoing process of
privatizing one of the two state banks, BTM, and a Government commitment to
a similar process for the other state bank, BFV, by supporting specialized
consultant services such as for valuation and placement of these banks with
private investors.
The Credit would finance technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles.
Benefits:     The major benefits of the project will derive from its contribution to the establishment
of an efficient financial system, with an effective banking system at its core, which is
essential for the development of a market-oriented economy. The project will help
implement an overall strategy for market oriented financial reforms, particularly in
strengthening the framework for prudential supervision, accounting and audit. In turn
a sound financial system will facilitate productive investments and contribute to
accelerated economic growth and the creation of employment opportunities which are key
factors in poverty alleviation. Specifically, the project is expected to: (i) enhance the
effectiveness of BCRM to conduct monetary policy; (ii) strengthen the prudential
supervision role of CCBEF and over time engender greater confidence in the use of
indirect controls rather than direct controls to allocate resources; (iii) enhance the security
and efficiency of financial transitions and the quality of financial intermediation through
a greater stimulus for financial savings and more efficient allocation of capital; and (iv)
help avert future financial crises rather than simply react to them.
Risks:        The major risks of the project stem from the possible impact of the present transitional
political  decision-making  structure  on  effective  implementation.  Successful
implementation is predicated on political will being maintained to preserve the authority
of BCRM and CCBEF, respectively, to formulate and execute monetary policy and to
exercise prudential oversight of banks. At the same time, the institutional development
goals for BCRM and CCBEF are complex and ambitious, including significantly
redefined business objectives and extensive use of information technology, and could be
subject to implementation slippages. These risks are mitigated by: (i) the high level of
commitment to project objectives and to the project's urgency expressed by a broad
spectrum of political figures and technicians; (ii) limiting the project core to BCRM
which has demonstrated continuity in its institutional capacity; (iii) the progress already
made, by BCRM and CCBEF themselves, towards preparing this project, indicating early
ownership and internalization of project design and objectives; and (iv) up-front
agreement and implementation of key organizational and institutional changes necessary
to execute the project.
Rate of return: Not Applicable



- iii -
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS ESTIMATES f
(USS thousand)
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:                                 L     l         gl
l                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LoOcal      Foreign  Total
1. Strengthening BCRM                             T            T
Advisory Services for Central Bank Organization         -           60.0         60.0
Research Department                                     -          832.0        832.0
Credit Departmnt                                        -          295.0        295.0
Foreign Exchange                                        -          315.0        315.0
External Debt Management                                 -         218.0        218.0
Planning & Management of Circulation of Notes & Coins  53.0        854.0        907.0
Accounting                                             82.0        499.0        581.0
Internal Audit                                         26.0        307.0        333.0
Information Systems                                   345.0       4,014.0     4,359.0
Human Resources                                       144.0        380.0        524.0
Project Management Assistance                           -          502.0        502.0
Sub-Total                                               650.0      827          892.0
2. Strengthening CCBEF                                   21.0        556.0        577.0
3. Improving the Audit & Accounting Framework           204.0        456.0        660.0
4. Supporting the Privatization of State Banks             -         200.0        200.0
TOTAL                                _.488.5    D0.360
a  The incremental staff and operating costs under the project will be borne by the implementing
agencies concerned, mainly BCRM.
k/ Includes annual physical contingencies of 5%, and annual price contingencies of 4% in US$.



- iv -
Financin2 Plan:
(USS milion)
SOURCE        ~LOCAL              PfEO                  OA
IDA                        0.6                 S.7                 6.3
USAID                      0.3                 2.7                 3.0
Switzerland                                    0.6                 0.6
BITS                                           0.S                 0.5
TOTAL                      0.9                 9.S                 10.4
ESTMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY                       1994       199S      1996     1997      1998   19991
Annual                    0.7        1.8       1.6       1.1      0.7     04]
Cumulative         1      0.7        2.5       4.1    5.2 T       5.9 1   6.3



MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTONS DEVELOPMENT TCNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAF  APPRAISALRE R
L.INTRODUCTO
1.1   In 1991, a number of economic reforms were abandoned as Madagascar entered into a period
of political turbulence. Fundamental weaknesses in the financial sector had severely undermined the
capacity of the authorities to execute structural adjustment programs and as a consequence their
sustainability was thwarted. Madagascar is still in a period of political transition with limited authority
to undertake a comprehensive structural adjustment program. This period of transition does, however,
present the opportunity to strengthen key financial institutions in preparation for the resumption of broad
economic reforms and economic recovery and growth.
1.2    Significant strengthening of the Central Bank (BCRM) and the Financial Supervisory Commission
(CCBEF) is indispensable for mobilizing savings to meet the investment financing needs of the private
sector and to laying the foundations for sustainable economic growth. The proposed project will be
implemented in the context of a Government Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development.
The core of the project is centered on BCRM which has demonstrated continuity in its institutional
capacity over the transition period.
1.3    The project will specifically: (i) reinforce the institutional capacity of BCRM so that it can
initiate and sustain financial sector reform through more effective formulation and execution of monetary
policy; (ii) develop CCBEF so that it can effectively execute its prudential supervision functions and
consequently engender greater confidence in the use of indirect controls in allocating financial resources;
(iii) improve financial accounting and audit in enterprises and in the financial sector, specifically the
banking system, by basing them on internationally accepted standards; and (iv) help complete the process
of privatizing the remaining two state banks.
1.4    The proposed project was appraised in February 1993 by a World Bank mission consisting of:
Messrs./Mme Govindan Nair, financial economist, (AF3IE - mission leader and task manager); Simon
Gray, economist (AF3IE); Claudine Morin, lawyer (LEGAF); Maud Borg, (consultant, central bank
management); and Ake Andolf (consultant, information systems). Contributions are acknowledged from
Mr. Colin Lyle, accountant (AFTCP), and Messrs. Stokes and Thomet, respectively consultants for
USAID and the Swiss Government, who also participated in various aspects of the appraisal mission.



- 2 -
II. HE FINANCIAL YSTEM
A.     Macroeconomic Context
Background
2.1    Madagascar, with a population of 12 million growing at 3 percent per year, and per capita
income of about US$220, is one of the world's poorest countries. It is the fourth largest island on the
planet with wide variations in soils, topography and climate, and it features unique flora and fauna. The
country's staple is rice, and the major exports are coffee, vanilla, cloves and shellfish. In the early years
of independence in the 1960s, Madagascar witnessed modest growth, followed by stagnation from 1970
to 1980, and a severe downturn to 1982. Financial stabilization followed with limited economic growth
from 1983 to 1987. Since 1988, the economic results were encouraging until 1990, shortly after which
the country entered into a period of political turbulence in 1991.
2.2    In the period from  1983 to 1988, Madagascar implemented a comprehensive program of
stabilization and economic reform. The Government's deficit was slashed from 18 percent of GDP in
1981 to just over 4 percent in 1989. Monetary creation slowed and so did inflation from a high of 31
percent in 1981 to 9 percent in 1989. At the same time the external current account deficit (including
transfers) dropped from 10 percent to 5 percent of GDP. In achieving these stabilization measures
Madagascar was supported by four IMF standby arrangements since 1985, which were subsequently
replaced by arrangements under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility in 1989.
2.3    Actions, albeit slower than required, were also taken to reform the trade and exchange rate
regimes. The exchange rate moved away from being fixed administratively to more flexibly managed
with significant depreciation of the real effective exchange rate. Complementary actions on tariff reform
were also implemented. All quantitative restrictions were lifted by 1988, followed by a four-year program
instituting ad valorem tariffs, rationalizing product import categories from 69 to 16, and introducing
minimum and maximum tariffs of 5 percent and 80 percent, respectively.
2.4    In tandem with these trade reforms, structural adjustment was tackled on a number of different
fronts. Price controls were virtually eliminated over the decade with prices on agricultural commodities
and the consumer price of rice being completely freed in 1985 and retail prices on 90 percent of value
added in industry being decontrolled by the end of the decade. Over the same period, the Government
rolled back the monopoly of public marketing authorities, most notably in coffee, clove and pepper
exports and through the legalization of private trade in rice, pulses and groundnuts. Currently, only the
vanilla trade remains controlled. The effect on the rice industry was immediate, with significant increases
in production in the 1987 season and a significant decline in import rice dependency to 1990.
2.5    Public expenditures underwent a fundamental reorientation in the 1986-90 Development Plan that
emphasized: maintenance and rehabilitation, improved utilization of capacity, a much reduced role of the
State in manufacturing, and a major rationalization for agriculture. The first rolling triennial investment
program was formulated for 1989-1991 and was followed by further improvements in a subsequent
program for 1990-1992, which included increased aggregate provision for counterpart funding for
externally assisted projects, and the beginning of a significant reorientation of current expenditures
toward priority needs in primary health, basic education and public safety.



2.6    The Government took initial steps to reform the completely state-owned banking sector. By the
end of 1989, the loan portfolios of these banks had been cleaned of most non-performing and doubtful
assets. In 1990, a new full private bank with majority foreign capital started operations, and in 1991 one
of the state banks was privatized and another obtained minority private participation. Moreover, in 1990,
Central Bank (BCRM) embarked upon a process of replacing direct credit allocation with a more flexible
system based on indirect market instruments.
2.7    BCRM losses, however, mounted over the 1980s which indicated a fundamental flaw  in the
financing of public expenditure. In taking direct liability for the exchange rate risk on government
external debt, in addition to providing advances to the Government at well above the statutory limit and
at near zero percent interest rates, BCRM registered operating losses which averaged 3 percent of GDP
from 1985 to 1990 and resulted in accumulated losses equivalent to 9.6 percent of GDP in 1990. Limited
action was taken to redress this situation in 1991 when it was decided to remunerate Treasury deposits
and charge Treasury borrowing with the BCRM at money market rates.
2.8    Overall, the stabilization and subsequent structural reforms contributed to the resumption of per
capita growth in early 1988. This supply response was, however, slower than desired partly because of
inadequate progress in institutional reforms in the financial sector. It was undermined by political events
in 1991.
Recent Developments
2.9    In 1988-90, strong growth in agricultural production and new  export-oriented manufacturing
activities (e.g., garments, leather, wood processing) led to modest per-capita GDP growth. The
developments in 1990, however, demonstrated the fragility of the reform and recovery. Even prior to the
political turmoil, growth in agricultural production slowed to about 2 percent due to poor weather, while
the secondary sector stagnated due to weak performance in the public sector textile and food industries,
despite continued strong performance by the new manufacturing enterprises. The setback centered on the
failure of the authorities to effectively link and manage exchange rate policies and credit policies.
Merchandise imports rose by 58 percent in nominal U.S. dollar terms as a result of an uncontrolled
expansion of credit (provided largely through BTM, the only remaining fully state-owned commercial
bank), an appreciating real effective exchange rate, and an increased oil bill. This, together with
stagnating merchandise exports in current dollar terms, due largely to the continued sharp decreases in
the prices of the country's major exports (in particular that of coffee), led to a trade deficit of 6 percent
of GDP, compared to a small surplus in 1989. As a result, the external current account deficit widened
from 8.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 11.7 percent in 1990. These developments, combined with
lower-than expected aid inflows, caused foreign exchange reserves to decline from five months of imports
at end-1989 to less than two months by end-1990.
2.10   The Government acted, albeit slowly, to restore financial equilibria by devaluing the FMG by
16 percent in January 1991 and by severely tightening credit expansion between November 1990 and June
1991. These measures and increased external support helped improve the country's external position
during the first half of 1991, and the economy was on the way to another year of positive growth, when
political turmoil broke out in the second half of 1991. As widespread demonstrations and strikes
paralyzed public administration, economic activity was severely disrupted, and the adjustment process
went off-track.



- 4 -
2.11   Real GDP contracted by 6 percent in 1991; inflationary pressures built up; financial imbalances
widened significantly; and large domestic and external payments arrears were accumulated. Political
disturbances in 1991 resulted in a shortfall in tax collection and the rise in the budget deficit to about 10
percent of GDP; in 1992, tax collection did not improve and budgetary discipline worsened. The true
size of the fiscal deficit was masked by the quasi-fiscal operations of the Central Bank which since 1983
has been assuming debt-servicing obligations once borne by the Treasury. The internal imbalances were
reflected in a worsened external position of Madagascar, with the overall current account deficit reaching
10 percent of GDP in 1992. The growing shortage of foreign exchange had led to the suspension of the
Open General License system in October 1991.
2.12   A transitional power-sharing arrangement, agreed in late October 1991 by all major political
forces, became effective in January 1992. Under this arrangement, the President remained in office with
greatly curtailed executive powers; the National Assembly was dissolved and replaced by a High State
Authority headed by a key opposition leader; and a government of national consensus was formed. The
new Constitution was approved by referendum in August 1992, followed by presidential elections in late
November 1992 and February 1993. Legislative elections are scheduled for June 1993. Political and
economic turmoil have exacerbated issues which were already adversely affecting Madagascar's project
implementation performance. Notable among these is weak management, ill prepared to meet the
challenges of a market economy. While the political transition runs its course, institution building will
be critical to permit the timely and efficient return to private sector led growth.
B.     The Financial Sector
Recent Developments
2.13   In the second half of the 1980s, reforms in the financial sector centered on steps to strengthen
the banking sector, which was completely state-owned and experiencing severe financial problems. By
the end of 1989, the loan portfolios of these banks had been cleaned of most non-performing and doubtful
assets. In 1990, a new, fully private bank with majority foreign capital started operations; in 1991, one
of the state banks was privatized and another obtained minority private participation while two private
foreign banks opened representative offices in Madagascar. In parallel with these actions, the Central
Bank embarked upon a process of replacing direct credit allocation with a more flexible system based on
indirect market instruments. These financial sector reforms have had mixed results. The new private
banks and the majority privatization of one of the state banks has proved successful. Progress was less
sustainable, however, in maintaining the overall health of the banking system following the portfolio
clean-up of 1989, because the two majority state banks have shown increasing weaknesses since 1991.
These difficulties led to a virtual standstill in the interbank money market, jeopardizing the success of a
market-based system of interest rates introduced in November 1990.  As discussed below, the
establishment of market-based interest rates was also undermined by the suspension of the Treasury Bill
market in mid-1991.
2.14   Problemns in establishing market-based interest rates. Direct refinancing operations by BCRM
were replaced in November 1990 by money market auction operations, to both inject and remove
liquidity from the financial system. They were interrupted in June 1991 in the wake of political strife,
but were reinstated again in November 1991. The root of this perturbation in the money market was the
re-emergence of macroeconomic instability in 1991, as outlined in paragraph 2.11. At the same time,
institutional weaknesses in the two state banks have undermined the development of a money market.
Specifically, in 1990/1991 a rapid expansion in credit by the largest state bank undermined monetary



stability, which was later compounded by a similar increase in credit in the other remaining state bank
in 1992. It is noteworthy that while the two state banks have at various times exceeded their credit
ceilings for extended periods, the two private banks have generally kept within their credit ceilings.
2.15   Another reason the money market has not worked well has been the lack of clear objectives in
monetary policy which is partly reflected in an inability to coordinate money market operations with
public financing operations of the Treasury. Currently the only treasury bills being issued are BTCs (Bons
du Tresor Classiques), representing medium to long-term investments. Returns on this paper, because
of up front interest payments and tax exemption, provide effective rates which have remained static over
a two-year period and bear little relation to the prevailing market conditions. Since the money market
was reinstated in November 1991, the market has been highly liquid, due to the suspension of the OGL
import system combined with lower tax recovery and increased government spending. BCRM has,
therefore, been systematically removing liquidity from the system through the money market auction
instrument "appel d'offres n6gatives' (AONs). To avoid wide fluctuations in rates that could result from
fiscal problems and weaknesses of state banks, BCRM openly or covertly attempts to regulate the market
which results in rigid interest rates, while basic policies of either removing or injecting li-uidity are
mechanistically followed. Under these conditions, the Treasury has no incentive to issue short-, erm paper
(BTAs) in lieu of borrowing from BCRM at money market rates.
2.16   The problems of state banks and lack of adequate coordination of monetary and fiscal
management have resulted in three indications of a lack of market-based interest rates. First, interest rates
on both BCRM deposit and refinancing instruments have remained exceptionally static over the last two
years despite a complete reversal in the money market situation from a highly illiquid market from
November 1990 to June 1991, to a highly liquid situation following the resumption of the market in 1991.
Second, operations in the interbank market have been extremely modest, with most of the operations
occurring between the two state banks, while the private banks, for reasons of confidence, prefer to
refinance or place resources directly with BCRM. Third, the wide divergence in returns on savings is
indicative of the of lack of market forces at play: sight deposits averaging 2.6 percent, term deposits
averaging 14 percent, AONs 8.75 percent, special deposits with BCRM 5 percent, and six-month treasury
bills (Bons du Tresor par Adjudication, BTAs) 18 percent and with an effective return of 25 percent.
2.17   Problems of state banks. With regard to the banking system, despite the 1986 to 1988 portfolio
clean up and the privatization moves referred to in paragraph 2.6, the authorities were unable to
satisfactorily control the growth of credit in 1990 and 1991. This inability to control credit centered on
institutional weaknesses in one bank, the wholly state-controlled BTM, which witnessed a severe
degradation of its loan portfolio over the 1990/1991 period. This was a major factor in the discontinuation
of the OGL import system in September 1991. Remedial action was taken in February 1992 with the
replacement of BTM top management, which has led since April 1992 to the reduction of BTM loan
portfolio to within the specified BCRM credit ceiling, and to a position where BTM reversed its normal
refinancing requirement with BCRM to a situation where it placed excess liquidity with BCRM as of
August 1992. While BTM's adverse impact on overall credit management appears to have now been
contained, the state of the bank's loan portfolio has worsened. Consequently, the profitability of the bank
is declining while provisioning requirements for doubtful assets increase, making the prospects for
immediate privatization more remote.
2.18   Problems at BTM recently spilled over to the other remaining state bank, BFV. The 1991
accounts for this bank could not be satisfactorily audited and the loan portfolio has significantly
deteriorated and, consequently, a large increase in provisions is required. Furthermore, since late 1991,



- 6 -
BFV has consistently failed to respect credit ceilings. While the two private banks have been in positions
of excess liquidity and BTM reduced its refinancing requirement, showing excess liquidity in August
1992, BFV still had a net refinancing requirement with BCRM.
2.19   The problems of establishing market-based interest rates and of the state banks reflect two sets
of weaknesses in the financial system. First, the lack of independence of the Central Bank (BCRM) and
Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF) has resulted in the conduct of monetary policy and
prudential oversight being influenced by political factors. Second, the lack of independence of these key
institutions is compounded by inadequate capacity to formulate and execute monetary policy based on
indirect instruments and the lack of concise and comparable information on the health of banking
institutions as well as inadequacies in the prudential supervision system, the accounting framework, and
the financial disclosure and audit standards for banks. All these factors have made early detection and
correction of financial distress difficult.
Required Institutional and Policy Reforms
2.20   The Government and BCRM are conscious that a wide variety of monetary and financial reforms
are required to develop a market oriented economy. Accordingly, the Government adopted a Statement
of Financial Sector Reform and Development Policy in March 1993 containing a two-stage strategy for
strengthening the financial system (see Annex 1). The first phase of reform aims at the following priority
institutional reforms: (i) strengthening the independence and accountability of the Central Bank; (ii)
enhancing the capacity of CCBEF in prudential supervision; (iii) improving the framework for audit and
accounting; and (iv) supporting the privatization of state banks. Some of the remaining reforms are
predicated on macroeconomic stability through fiscal prudence and clear policy decision with political
stability. In many cases, however, the ground can be laid to facilitate the implementation of future
reforms while the necessary fiscal and political preconditions are in the process of being fulfilled. Indeed,
the unsatisfactory results of earlier financial sector reforms underscore the urgency of institutional
strengthening in order to allow macroeconomic reform to succeed.
2.21   On the monetary front, a number of improvements are required to the workings of the market.
Chief among these is the implementation of a pure Dutch auction system for BCRM refinancing with the
removal of any BCRM limits on interest rates for auctions. In addition to this, the standardization of
maturities and a well defined and publicized auctioning schedule for both refinancing and placing needs
to be accomplished. Furthermore, alternative BCRM instruments to borrow and deposit funds which
undermine the auction system should be removed. This must be complemented with a well designed
research capacity combined with improvements in the monetary programming in BCRM. Eventually, bank
credit ceilings and limits should be abolished once there is adequate progress towards: (i) the development
of an active money market; (ii) a sound privatized banking system; and (iii) improvements in planning
and financing public debt. This series of measures should begin to place the functioning of financial
markets and conduct of monetary policy using market instruments on a more firm footing.
2.22   While progress has been made in developing reserve requirements into a fully fledged tool of
monetary control, a number of measures are required to improve this instrument. These include
improving the computing lag time, being more flexible on what constitutes reserves and not being unduly
severe on the penalty when reserve requirements cannot be met. Again, capacity building measures in
BCRM could overcome many of these shortcomings.



- 7 -
2.23   In the area of public finance and monetary policy, greater coordination between BCRM and the
Treasury needs to be developed to ensure a more planned and systematic approach that avoids ad hoe
financing and increases the efficiency of public finance operations. BTAs issued for six months and
twelve months should be reintroduced. This will require concurrent flexibility in auction operations to
guarantee that rigid auction rates do not undermine the attractiveness of BTAs. Increased research and
management capacities at BCRM are required to ensure that short-term liquidity management is integrated
within a well formulated overall policy of monetary management and that returns on BTCs are more in
line with the market, and to allow for the development of a secondary market for both types of treasury
bills.
2.24   While prior credit approval has been abolished by BCRM, there remains a prior authorization
by BCRM of any individual loan that a bank uses to collateralize refinancing with BCRM. As capacities
to enhance supervision of financial institutions in CCBEF improve, this requirement should be abolished.
BCRM refinancing will become more a function of the commercial bank risk rather than the individual
borrower risk, though provision could still be made to exclude loans to specific individual borrowers with
insufficient creditworthiness from being used as collateral for BCRM refinancing.
2.25   In the light of the present banking crisis and given the policy objective to shift to indirect
monetary controls, increased support for banking supervision and the upgrading of financial accounting
and auditing standards is crucial. This will require strengthening the technical and legal capacity of the
Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF) in tandem with the dissemination and implementation of an
improved and uniformly applicable chart of accounts for commercial banks, as well as the introduction
of appropriate auditing procedures, both of which should reflect international norms.
2.26   Besides improved supervision, the key to solving present problems in the banking system is the
privatization or liquidation of the two state banks.  The privatization route may necessitate the
introduction of interim management to turn these banks around and render them privatizable. In the event
that it is concluded that the alternative of liquidation is the only feasible outcome, financial policy will
dictate that all efforts are made to explore the possibility of selling the assets to another bank with a view
to maintaining the depth and range of financial services as is economically feasible.
2.27   In the process of restructuring the financial sector, policies which engender financial and
economic autonomy and transparency of financial institutions, should be pursued to ensure that they
operate in an efficient and self sustaining manner. This is a particularly important objective for BCRM,
whose institutional and financial independence will also form an important policy objective. Furthermore,
wherever feasible, policy to broaden and deepen the financial markets through the creation and
strengthening of existing institutions and instruments will be pursued.
Financial Sector Strategy
2.28   The strengthening of the financial sector is critical to sustaining the reforms embarked on in the
late 1980s, whose principal objective was to ensure the successful transition from a state to a private
sector-based market economy. The centerpiece of the financial strategy is to efficiently mobilize savings
to meet the investment fmancing needs of the private sector. The major constraint to increasing the level
of investment in Madagascar, particularly private sector investment, is the low level of domestic savings.
Despite increases in domestic savings to 10 percent of GDP in 1989, Madagascar's gross domestic
savings rate is below the average for sub-Saharan Africa (12 percent). Equally, Madagascar's investment
rate has been below the sub-Saharan average at 10 percent of GDP between 1985 and 1989, against a sub-
Saharan average of 14 percent. While the primary obstacle to mobilizing savings and increasing



investment remains a fiscal problem crowding out private investment and dampening incentive to save,
a number of secondary problems are related to institutional capacities and the quality of financial
intermediation.
2.29   To enable the financial sector to play its role in recovery and growth, a seven-part sector strategy
has been developed jointly with the Government. This strategy is the outcome of a dialogue which began
in January 1992 with discussions of the World Bank's Financial Sector Study (Report No. 9817-MAG).
The various elements of this strategy are included in a Government Statement of Financial Sector Reform
and Development Policy (See Annex 1). EiM, the Government will pursue a public expenditure program
consistent with a significant lowering of the budget deficit in the short to medium term, and will relieve
BCRM of all its quasi fiscal obligations. Second, a full range of institutions, markets and instruments will
be developed over time to ensure that all segments of the population have access to financial services,
which effectively mobilize financial savings and efficiently transfer them into the real economy. Financial
depth, M2/GDP, has hardly changed and remained below 25 percent of GDP in Madagascar since the
1970s (1985-88 average: 22.5 percent), which is low when compared with other developing countries.
Furthermore there is highly disparate availability of financial intermediation in Madagascar, depending
on geographical location and income group. The majority of the rural population has limited access to
financial services, and these services have limited usefulness to a large part of the active population
because of the low level of incomes and the restricted and inflexible nature of the services offered. ThiW,
over time the financial system will promote a market determined set of key prices, notably interest rates
that would remain positive in real termns and, eventually, an exchange rate that is market determined.
At present, despite monetary reforms, interest rates are extremely rigid and thus fluctuate in real terms
from negative to positive without any reference to demand for and supply of resources. Removal of the
rigidities in interest rates is, therefore, key to the efficient allocation of resources. It is recognized,
however, that this can only be achieved if macroeconomic stability is restored and fundamental
institutional weaknesses in the banking sector are resolved.
2.30   A fQ.gh element of the financial sector strategy is the development of a rigorous and effective
prudential supervision which also implies an appropriate framework of accounting, auditing and financial
disclosure for financial institutions. At the core of many of the financial sector problems experienced in
Madagascar over recent years has been the lack of reliable financial information, combined with a
deficiency in the prudential supervision of financial institutions. A strategy to raise standards in financial
information and strengthen supervision is, therefore, essential to the financial sector reform. Fifth, there
will be an eventual shift to indirect instruments of monetary control. sixth, state ownership and control
in all bank and non-bank financial institutions will be removed and a sound institutional framework with
strong and competitive financial institutions will be promoted. Finally, the appropriate financial
infrastructure (legal system, payments system) will ensure the efficiency and security of all financial
transactions (payments, deposits, loans, etc.).
2.31    The proposed project will help in the implementation of the overall sector strategy. It will focus
on immediate priorities of reforms in BCRM and the CCBEF and improvements to accounting and audit.
It will provide technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies to strengthen both BCRM and
CCBEF. Furthermore, the project will strengthen the accounting and auditing environment by providing
technical assistance and training for upgrading and disseminating improved accounting and auditing
standards in line with international norms. Experience with prior adjustment programs has demonstrated
that there are advantages to initiating institutional reforms as early as possible, because of the time it takes
to bring them about. Having stronger institutions is a precondition for the application of effective
financial policies and structural reforms in the sector.



-9 -
2.32   IDA involvement in financial sector reforms: World Bank involvement in the financial sector
dates back to the mid-1980s when the Government began to place limits on banking sector credits to
public enterprises. In 1987, state owned banks started restructuring their portfolios by provisioning more
aggressively against non-performing assets. In 1988, a new banking law allowed private sector
participation in the financial sector, which resulted in a new private commercial bank opening its doors
in 1989 and one of the three state banks being fully privatized and another partially. The World Bank's
role in these initiatives was complemented by the IMF which, inter alia, provided assistance in the design
and launching of a new money market in Madagascar in 1989-1990. Bank/IMF collaboration included
IMF participation in the Bank's Financial Sector Study (Report No. 9817-MAG, March 1993).
2.33   The Government, conscious of the need to establish solid financial institutions as a vehicle for
private sector development and the resumption of growth, requested in January 1991 assistance from the
Bank in preparing a series of operations designed to meet this objective. With regard to the proposed
project, the World Bank has been involved in a series of discussions with both the Government and
BCRM, including seminars in three subsequent missions before appraisal in February/March 1993. These
discussions have been aimed at early ownership of the project by BCRM which created a project group
in August 1992 to draft a strategic development plan. In parallel with these discussions, the IMF reviewed
BCRM and banking issues and reforms in May 1992, and provided advice on how the balance sheet of
BCRM could be restructured to eliminate all quasi fiscal obligations more properly attributed to the State.
At the same time, the IMF has taken the lead in reviewing the statutes of BCRM and in helping define
appropriate steps for strengthening the supervisory role of CCBEF, including an IMF initiative to recruit
a foreign bank supervisor as technical adviser. These initiatives intimately complement those of the
project, and reflect the critical role the IMF has played in reviewing and defining the framework for this
technical assistance operation.
C.    BCRM (Central Bank)
2.34   The core functions of the Central Bank of the Republic of Madagascar (BCRM) are consistent
with those of a modern central bank, namely: issuing legal tender and assuring economic growth with
price stability through appropriate monetary policy. However, as is the case with many countries in the
developing world, BCRM has taken on a number of other functions, notably quasi fiscal activities, which
are inconsistent with its development into an independent institution ensuring stability in money and
financial markets. To better identify institutional development needs of BCRM, the scope and results of
its primary functions (domestic and foreign operations, credit, research), as well as support (accounting
and audit, information systems, human resources) are reviewed below:
(a)   Formulating and Executing Monetary Policy
2.35   As previously indicated, there are major weaknesses in the monetary operations of BCRM which
have resulted in a rigid money market and the maintenance of a number of direct controls on the market.
The first weakness is a lack of research capacity to formulate monetary policy based on an analysis of
developments in the real and financial sectors (see paragraph 2.39 below). The second weakness is the
lack of coordination with the Treasury on government financing and open market operations. Institutional
strengthening through the development of (i) research capacities, (ii) open market operations and
(iii) improved coordination with the government financial operations, would give BCRM more confidence
in allowing the market to function. BCRM would, therefore, be better prepared to remove credit ceilings



- 10 -
and other direct controls, once macroeconomic stability has been established and fundamental institutional
weaknesses in the commercial banks resolved.
(b)   Government Banker
2.36   Apart from acting as the Government's banker, BCRM has also been implicitly obliged to
finance the public sector deficit, which is illustrated by the mounting operating losses of BCRM in the
1980s. This financing took three forms: (i) taking direct liability for the exchange rate risk on
Government and private sector external debt during the London and Paris Club rescheduling negotiations
in the 1980s which, in the case of the Government, effectively meant recording losses on the balance
sheet of BCRM that should have been ascribed to the national budget; (ii) providing advances to the
Government well above the statutory limit; and (iii) providing the advances at virtually zero percent
interest until 1991. Since the Government does not systematically respect its obligations to compensate
foreign exchange and operating losses, three fifths of BCRM operating assets represented unremunerated
claims on the Government by the end of the 1980s.
2.37   The resolution of this problem centers on legally enshrining the independence of BCRM and
restructuring its balance sheet. Initiatives involving the IMF in both these areas are already underway.
With regard to the independence of BCRM, revisions to the 1973 Ordinance setting forth BCRM's
Statutes have been prepared to: (i) clearly limit the objective of BCRM to the stability of the currency;
(ii) increase its authority in formulating monetary policy; (iii) increase the independence of the Governor
and Board through lengthened tenure, fixed-term appointments and clear dismissal criteria; and (iv) ensure
the regular publication of BCRM audited accounts. A first step towards the restructuring of the balance
sheet was undertaken in 1992, when the non-interest earning assets of BCRM representing claims on
Government and associated liabilities were recorded in specific new accounts outside of the balance sheet
of BCRM, which now render these quasi fiscal operations more transparent.
2.38   Increased legal and financial independence of BCRM are key to general financial sector reform
and critical to the successful application of any technical assistance provided to BCRM or CCBEF.
Consequently the independence of BCRM and the elimination of its fiscal obligations constitute explicit
objectives of government policy for the financial sector which need to be forcefully pursued. (See the
Government's Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development Policy, Annex 1).
(c)   Primary Functions
2.39   Research. A fully fledged research and statistics function does not exist in any significant sense
at BCRM. Currently, a unit consisting of four staff is engaged in collecting macroeconomic data, mainly
in preparation for BankI/IMF missions. There is a multitude of research and policy-related data gathering
and processing efforts through BCRM which are uncoordinated and which result in numerous redundant
data requests from various departments of BCRM to the outside (commercial banks and financial
institutions, ministries, etc.). The research function until very recently lacked a director and, as a result,
the authority to coordinate and streamline data requests from the outside and data flows within BCRM.
Consequently, no monetary programming is carried out. Furthermore, there is no strategic or policy
research, for example for helping formulate monetary policy or better understanding links between the
financial system and the real economy.
2.40   Credit. The credit department in BCRM has primary responsibility for the implementation of
direct monetary controls, and in the last few years has been responsible for reforming a number of these



- 11 -
instruments and for implementing new money market instruments to manage the level of liquidity in the
market. While some progress has been made in dismantling some of the direct controls, notably in
abolishing all prior credit approval and in developing reserve requirements as a tool of monetary control,
the operation of the money market remains rigid (See para. 2.15) and credit is still micro-managed by
BCRM. Notwithstanding that credit ceilings will need to be maintained until fiscal problems and
institutional weaknesses in the commercial banks are resolved, a great deal of institutional strengthening
is required over the transition to improve the flexibility, responsiveness and effectiveness of the nascent
money market and the new monetary instruments.
2.41   Foreign Exchange Operations. BCRM monitors all foreign currency operations and manages
all foreign currency transactions on behalf of the Government. Until September 1991, when the Open
General License System (OGL) was abolished, all foreign currency receipts had to be surrendered to
BCRM. Currently the commercial banks are permitted to keep 60 percent of the foreign currency receipts
while ceding 40 percent to BCRM, which maintains its role of monitoring all foreign currency
transactions. Given the existing foreign exchange shortage and the need for commercial banks to conduct
foreign exchange transactions at an overvalued official rate, this system effectively puts the burden of
rationing on commercial banks. A strategy, cognizant of present fiscal and monetary problems, needs to
be developed with the long term objective of BCRM playing a supervisory role in a market where foreign
currency is freely traded. Furthermore institutional weaknesses in managing and monitoring foreign
currency operations have to be addressed to prepare BCRM for the implementation of this strategy and
to increase the efficiency of existing operations.
2.42   External Debt Management. BCRM  manages all external public debt on behalf of the
Government, and has been obliged to bear losses on external debt that should have been borne by the
Treasury, notably exchange rate losses. A strategy to ensure that all obligations on foreign debt contracted
by the Government are correctly attributed to the Treasury was developed in 1992 as part of the overall
policy to eliminate quasi fiscal activities from BCRM balance sheet, referred to in paragraph 2.37. This
resulted in the creation in early 1993 of a distinct department within BCRM to implement this strategy
and to manage all external debt. Technical assistance is required to develop the capacities of this
department to manage these external debt operations.
2.43   Circulation of Bank Notes. Activities associated with the circulation of bank notes at BCRM
center on national currency management. BCRM is poorly equipped to monitor and manage the level of
national currency in circulation due to: (i) limited operational capabilities within BCRM to forecast and
control demand for national currency; and (ii) poor communications with both BCRM domestic
correspondents and the commercial banks. These problems need to be tackled in tandem with a review
of the domestic payments system.
(d)   Support Functions
2.44   Accounting. Whereas BCRM appears to have managed to maintain and prepare accounts on a
regular basis, the internal organization of the accounting function suffers certain weaknesses. These result,
principally from an unsatisfactory segregation of responsibilities, and the fact that there is no separate unit
which is primarily responsible for accounting and for reporting on financial matters directly to
management. Currently, departments or units are not only initiating transactions but are also responsible
for recording them, thus bypassing a fundamental principle of adequate internal control within the
institution. Furthermore this situation inhibits the preparation and diffusion to general management on
a timely basis, of the financial information necessary to effectively execute their managerial



- 12 -
responsibilities. The absence of regular external audits of BCRM accounts is an additional shortcoming
in the overall control exercised over the bank's operations.
2.45   Internal Audit. Within BCRM the activities normally attributed to an internal audit office or
unit are currently carried out by the Inspection Department. This includes routine verification and internal
control functions which are more properly handled by a separate accounts unit. The Inspection
Department also carries out a variety of other activities (review of applications for the banking licenses,
on-site and off-site inspection of financial institutions) which should now be the responsibility of CCBEF.
Moreover, the Inspection Department is not directly responsible to the Board of Directors of BCRM and
does not, therefore, enjoy the independence usually associated with the function of internal audit.
2.46   Information Technology. Information processing plays an important role in the day to day
operations of BCRM, though a number of activities lack required computer support due to the scarcity
of data processing resources. Likewise there is a need for more active general management participation
in data processing planning and implementation. Furthermore, in a changing environment with a
progressive shift to using indirect instruments of monetary policy, the role of information technology will
become increasingly important in attaining BCRM objectives. Strengthening strategic capacities in the area
of information technology is, therefore, a central part of BCRM development.
2.47     Information processing at BCRM today relies on an outdated mainframe computer system for
which the supplier has discontinued maintenance. Although spare parts can still be procured from places
as far away as Europe, it often entails a wait of up to ten days. This constitutes a considerable operational
risk for some of the basic data processing functions. High priority is, therefore, being accorded to moving
the most important systems, accounting and payroll, to other hardware. Despite the relatively high
quality of BCRM computer staff, compared to that of other countries at a similar stage of development,
the number of qualified systems analysts and programmers is limited. Significant emphasis on training
programs is required to meet the information technology skills requirements of BCRM.
2.48   Human Resources. While the quality of staff in BCRM is quite high on average, there appears
to be a lack of broad-based understanding of the functions of central banking. Most staff have only
limited knowledge of the operations of departments other than the one in which they are working. There
is virtually no systematic planning for staff rotation or long-term training. BCRM senior management
have also expressed the need to review the present system of classifying personnel to improve incentives
and prospects for horizontal and vertical mobility. BCRM is examining the possibility of introducing of
occupational streams (economists, financial analysts, etc.) to guide future recruitment, training, and
promotion.
(e)   Recent BCRM Reforms
2.49   BCRM senior management and staff have generally been conscious of the problems and the need
for improvements within the institution. A number of steps have been recently initiated to strengthen
BCRM capabilities to more effectively meet its responsibilities in an increasingly market-based economy.
A major initiative is the revision of the 1973 Statutes of BCRM, which will give BCRM a clearer and
more independent role in both the formulation and execution of monetary policy. The Government has
adopted the ordinance setting forth the revised Statutes, which were agreed at negotiations, and the
promulgation of this ordinance is a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 13 -
2.50   Furthermore, BCRM began preparing in August 1992 a strategic development plan (SDP) which
will constitute a business plan for its organizational development over a 3 to 5 year period. The plan has
four elements described below: (i) a statement of key policy and business objectives; (ii) action plans for
department strengthening and restructuring BCRM; (iii) more effective application of information
technology systems; and (iv) human resource development. The SDP represents the beginnings of a
strategic planning and development function in BCRM. Although the SDP will remain a working
document to be continually reviewed, a first completed version of the text was adopted by the Board of
BCRM in April 1993 to commit the institution to a more strategic approach to its organizational
development. In addition, to help institutionalize this new function, a new position of Coordinator for
Strategic Planning and Development has been created in BCRM. The coordinator is expected to help the
senior management of BCRM to more effectively plan and co-ordinate organizational changes and the use
of information technology. BCRM will also form a steering committee comprised of senior BCRM
management and department managers to continually review the implementation of the SDP and approve
organizational and information technology plans. The steering committee will continually consult with
outside advisors on worldwide organizational practices in central banking.
2.51   Under its SDP, BCRM statement of objectives are categorized into 'business objectives" and
'institutional objectives". The business objectives comprise: (a) price stability through the pursuit of
monetary policy, eventually based on indirect instruments, and (b) legal, administrative and financial
independence of the Central Bank through the revision of its statutes and the removal of all quasi fiscal
obligations. Institutional objectives include: (i) strengthening the budget and internal control functions
within BCRM through improved accounting systems and procedures and their harmonization with a new
chart of accounts for banks; (ii) development of an internal audit function; (iii) development of a fully-
fledged research and statistics department; (iv) strengthening of capacities in foreign exchange
management, with the Central Bank ultimately playing a supervisory rather than a clearing role in the
foreign exchange market; (v) strengthening capacity to implement monetary policy through indirect
instruments and, ultimately, open market operations; (vi) increasing capacities to monitor credit-
worthiness of banks going hand in hand with the elimination of the review of individual bank loans for
BCRM refinancing; (vii) enhancing domestic currency management by improving planning and
communication capacities; (viii) development of modern information systems for the generation,
processing, storage, transmission, and retrieval of operational and management information in all
departments; and (ix) improvement of human resource functions especially in the areas of recruitment,
training, and promotion.
D.    CCBEF (Financial Supervisory Commission}
2.52   The Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF) was established under the April 1988 Banking
Act governing the banking sector. CCBEF which is not a legal entity is chaired by the Governor of the
Central Bank. The primary roles of CCBEF are to monitor and safeguard the financial health of all
financial sector institutions and to ensure that these institutions respect all laws and regulations governing
their operations. CCBEF also has the power to issue regulations regarding the management, accounting
and other technical practices of these institutions.
2.53   The development of CCBEF since its inception has, however, been stunted. Consequently, its
present available capacity is inconsistent with the demands of full regulatory and supervision functions
of financial institutions in an environment of greater reliance on indirect controls in the conduct of
monetary policy and increased competition among banks on both sides of their balance sheets. CCBEF



- 14 -
has lacked full-time trained staff and, until recently, had only one full-time professional, its Secretary
General. Instead, it has relied on the staff of the Inspection Department of BCRM on an ad hoc basis,
which has impeded effective financial sector supervision. The principal reasons for this are: (i) the
continued reliance by BCRM on direct controls, entailing review of individual bank loans for refinancing,
rather than ensuring financial institution health through supervision activities. The Credit Department of
BCRM has thus also assumed responsibilities for off-site surveillance, and remains a major force within
BCRM  for directing credit, while the function of monitoring commercial bank risk has secondary
importance; (ii) the lack of distinction between the roles of the Inspection Department in BCRM and
CCBEF; and (iii) the absence of accounting and auditing standards, particularly for banks, which reflect
international norms. Rationalization of BCRM and CCBEF roles in on- and off-site supervision is
required, with primary responsibility for supervision belonging to CCBEF. A systematic program of
training under a seasoned bank supervisor is envisaged to strengthen CCBEF supervision capacities.
E.     The Commercial Banks
2.54    In 1975, Madagascar's banking system was nationalized and in 1977 the five nationalized banks
were restructured into three commercial banks with the intention of each specializing in a sector of the
economy, i.e., agriculture (BTM), industry (BNI) and commerce (BFV). Credit increased rapidly from
1975 to 1980 and witnessed more modest growth thereafter. In 1985, following the first steps of
structural adjustment, there was a rapid deterioration of the commercial banks' overall loan portfolio,
with 40 percent considered doubtful. In the 1986 - 1989 period, through a process of revaluation of fixed
assets, commercial banks loan portfolios were significantly cleaned up, reducing doubtful loans to 15
percent of gross loans by the end of 1989. In May 1988, a new Banking Act paved the way for the
privatization of the banking sector. In August 1989, a new commercial bank, BMOI, opened its doors
with two major foreign investors, BNPI and SFOM. In February 1991, Credit Lyonnais acquired the
majority shareholding and took over the management of BNI (now known as BNI-Credit Lyonnais), and
Instituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino (IBSP) acquired a 22 percent stake in BFV in March 1991.
2.55   As previously indicated in paragraph 2.17, despite the 1986 to 1989 portfolio clean up and the
privatization achievements, the banking sector again finds itself in crisis, because of renewed deterioration
in the portfolios of the two remaining state controlled banks, BTM and BFV. BTM profitability is
declining while provisioning requirements for doubtful assets increase, making the prospects for
immediate privatization more remote. However, as of mid-1992 BTM began keeping within its credit
ceilings and has reduced its refinancing requirement, which is not the case of the BFV. The BFV has
consistently failed to respect credit ceilings since the strike of 1991, and while the other three commercial
banks had excess liquidity in August 1992, BFV still had a net refinancing requirement with BCRM.
Moreover, the 1991 accounts for this bank could not be certified and the loan portfolio has deteriorated
significantly. The two private commercial banks by contrast appear to be in a sound financial situation
despite the numerous political and economic problems witnessed in the years 1991/92. More encouraging,
a fifth commercial bank with Mauritian and South African investors has recently opened its doors in
Madagascar, and a sixth bank is currently in the process of being granted its banking license.
F.     The Insurance Sector
2.56   Madagascar's insurance industry, both non-life and life insurance, is in the early stages of
development. The ratio of gross insurance premiums to GDP (1987) was 0.05 percent, compared to that



- 15 -
in developed countries of 4.5 percent. There are two major insurance companies in Madagascar, ARO
and NY Havanana; these are joint-stock companies with majority interest held by the Government. A
further two insurance companies are in quasi liquidation, and have no impact on the market. The nature
of the industry is consequently highly oligopolistic, which includes provision for the sharing of
information and a non-competitive agreement between the two companies ensuring that one company will
not take a client from another. These barriers to competition have allowed these companies to do
relatively well even in harsh economic times, and as is the nature of the business they have accumulated
substantial reserves and thus are important investors. While strong arguments have been made to maintain
the duopolistic nature of the industry because of the small size of the market and the need to protect
individual savings, there is little rationale to defend continued government participation in these
industries. The insurance sector could therefore have an important role to play in terms of both the
privatization process and the development of a securities market discussed in section J below.
G.    The Social Security Fund
2.57   In Madagascar wage earners are covered by two systems of social security - a small government
scheme for public sector employees through the Ministry of Finance and the social security fund, the
Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (CNAPS). CNAPS undertakes three social security functions,
i.e., family benefits, workers' compensation, and retirement benefits. The fund, together with the
insurance companies, is one of the major mobilizers of term funds and an important institutional investor
in Madagascar. However, its soundness as a financial institution has been under question. The World
Bank is financing under the APEX project a series of studies on CNAPS - a financial audit, an
organizational diagnosis, an actuarial study, and a study of investment policies - which are being executed
since October 1992 by the Social Security Department of the International Labor Organization (ILO).
H.    Postal Financial Services
2.58   The Postal and Telecommunication Services (PTT) is made up of three entities, the Post Office,
the postal checking institution (Comptes Cheques Postaux - CCP) and the postal savings institution, CEM.
Although CEM was transformed into a savings bank in 1985 it continues to operate as a traditional postal
savings institution. It has a number of advantages in that, through the post office, it operates 220 windows
in 208 towns throughout Madagascar, with a high number of individual accounts. (e.g. every fourth
resident of Antananarivo has an account). Its major weaknesses are: (a) its total dependence on the
Treasury for financial management, which requires it to place all funds with the Treasury at below market
rates; and (b) the lack of financial transparency in the costing of services between the three PTT entities.
In July 1992, the Government adopted a new policy for restructuring the post and telecommunications
sector. Besides proposing to commercialize the telecommunications entity, the new policy proposes to
reorganize the Post Office and the two postal financial services as independent entities. A number of
proposals are currently being considered by the Minister of Post and Telecommunications to strengthen
the autonomy of postal financial services. One proposal is that the Post Office and the two postal
financial services each be established as individual enterprises with independent boards which could in
an initial phase be placed under a holding company. Subsequently, private capital should be allowed into
any one or all three of these entities. The Post Office should become a service provider on a fee basis
to the new postal checking and postal savings entities and should structure contractual relationships for
providing services through its post office network to these entities.



- 16 -
I.     The Payments System
2.59   The present system of effecting payments through financial instruments (checks, wire transfers,
money orders, etc) is riddled with delays, risks and inefficiencies, particularly for out-of-town
transactions. Clearance and settlement of checks and transfers can in some instances take up to 90 days.
Most of the delays are due to basic problems with road transport and inadequacies in the quality of public
network telecommunications. The present institutional set-up includes 15 clearinghouses throughout
Madagascar for clearance of checks, in which all four banks, BCRM and the post office participate, and
the use of windows at about 220 post offices for payments through the postal checking system (CCP).
Some improvements that have already been suggested to the Government are as follows: (i) introduction
of a single clearing center in the capital for all out-of-town checks, to avoid the delays currently incurred
through bilateral exchanges of checks among all 15 clearinghouses; (ii) development of either an express
mail system or a low-cost high-frequency radio network for data transmission, to expedite information
exchange; and (iii) introduction of new safety standards and procedures to allow clearing based on
exchange of information rather than documents.
J.     Financial Markets
2.60   In addition to the money markets described in para. 2.15, there is further potential for financial
market deepening through the trade of equities and private debt instruments. One of the economic changes
that Madagascar is currently undergoing involves the privatization of state enterprises and the
strengthening and creation of private shareholding in a number of existing and new enterprises. A
mechanism to facilitate the trading and transfer of equity would enhance this process of expanding private
ownership. Analysis of the potential for a small securities exchange was undertaken in 1992 and it is
envisaged to be further developed in the near future, which will include the fiscal and legal changes that
would be required to allow for an efficient system of share transfer.  Furthermore public securities
could also be traded in a secondary market, which could facilitate the reintroduction of BTAs (referred
to in paragraph 2.23). Finally in the light of the weaknesses in the interbank market there is potential
to allow financial institutions (principally the banks and insurance institutions) to issue negotiable
certificates of deposit (NCDs). In broadening the market this would allow banks with excess liquidity
another form of investment apart from BCRM in which to place their surpluses, and provide alternative
sources of refinancing (again apart from BCRM) for other financial institutions. All these aspects of the
financial market require further analysis in preparation for regulatory and institutional reforms.
K.     Accounting and Audit Framework
2.61    Accounting. Financial information in a concise and comparable form is not easily available in
Madagascar. Outdated accounting principles continue to be applied by commercial banks, as Madagascar
has failed to revise its 1983 Bank Chart of Accounts or even ensure its universal application. This causes
major problems in gaining an accurate interpretation of the financial position of banks and other financial
institutions; specifically with regard to the provisioning of doubtful debts, income recognition, and the
use of suspense accounts. Therefore, difficulties are experienced in comparing the financial performance
of like organizations in Madagascar such as commercial banks. Consequently BCRM, concerned with
institutional weaknesses and the veracity of financial information, has been reluctant to give up direct
monetary controls. On the other hand, the implementation of indirect controls, such as reserve
requirements, over the last two years has been accompanied by confusion on the part of the commercial



- 17 -
banks as to the exact nature of financial accounting required and the rationale behind BCRM demands.
The lack of understanding on both sides has generally led to the implementation of an overly rigid system
with penalties for reserves deficiencies that are unduly severe. This has neither inspired confidence in
indirect controls nor in either BCRM or CCBEF capacity to effectively regulate the financial markets.
2.62   Although there have been some developments in accounting over recent years (the development
of the 1987 General Chart of Accounts, PCGM-87, introduced with effect from January 1, 1989, and a
new uniform chart of accounts for commercial banks, NPCB, for introduction with effect from January
1st, 1994), two fundamental weaknesses in the accounting profession need to be addressed. These are
(i) the limited number of professionally qualified accountants; and (ii) the lack of a regulatory framework
to stimulate the development of a national accounting profession with standards and ethics at par with
levels accepted internationally. The absence of a suitable regulatory framework has been at the core of
the problem although a professional body has been in existence since 1962. The IDA financed Accounting
and Audit Organization and Management Training Project (Cr. 1 155-MAG), sought to establish legislative
and training requirements for the accounting profession and financed the National Institute for Accounting
Science and Enterprise Administration (Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration
des Entreprises (INSCAE). INSCAE ongoing activities and development are currently being supported
under the ongoing Accounting and Management Training Project (Cr. 1661-MAG). However, INSCAE
is currently able to train to the level of accounting technician only.
2.63   Under new legislation governing the accounting and audit profession, a student who has
successfully completed the INSCAE program or who has obtained an equivalent diploma, can take exams
for admission as a trainee for the qualification of ExDert Comptable et Financier, as defined by this new
legislation, and thus become a fully fledged member of this professional body. Furthermore, there are
a number of transitory measures which will expand the admission to the profession of other practitioners,
provided they can demonstrate an acceptable level of expertise. This new regulatory framework is a key
tool in the development of the profession and in the introduction of accounting and auditing standards
acceptable internationally. The new legislation does, however, have fundamental flaws in that foreign
accounting and audit firms are discriminated against, and certain anomalies need to be resolved to
facilitate the development of international accounting standards. Allowing foreign nationals with the
appropriate qualifications to compete freely with national firms in the local market is important in
stimulating future development in the profession.
2.64   This process will not only improve the quality of local services but together with the new
regulatory framework, will also expand employment opportunities for graduates of INSCAE. Many of
these graduates have been unable to find worthwhile jobs in the professional sector and these initiatives
will help create incentives for their professional development. These regulatory changes in addition to
technical assistance to facilitate the introduction of the NPCB, will help in overcoming the problems of
unsatisfactory audits particularly in the commercial banks experienced in the past, and create a local
profession capable of providing accounting and audit services acceptable internationally.
2.65   Audit. There are four professionally qualified accountants in the country with either French or
Canadian qualifications, each of whom has his/her own auditing firm. The four firms together employ
a total of some 300 people, about 40 of whom are audit staff with experience ranging from one to ten
years or more. Although a body of qualified accountants with legal status was set up in Madagascar on
1st October 1962, it has never become a dynamic force in developing the profession and has but the four
professionals referred to above as members. As a result, auditing standards have not evolved in an
orderly manner in line with those applied internationally. The legal framework for statutory auditing



- 18 -
continues to be the French 'Companies Act' of 1867 which provides for the appointment of a
Commissaire aux Comptes but fails to clearly define the scope of his audit interventions. Most financial
institutions, therefore, have undertaken the report of the Commissaire in tandem with an audit report on
more conventional lines but not governed by local or international standards. In implementing the NPCB,
complementary projects need to be carried out to ensure that International Standards of Auditing, as
established by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), are being applied.
m. HE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Scope
3.1    The project objective is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by
improving the functioning of the financial system. This is in line with the Bank's country assistance
strategy which emphasizes increased private sector savings and investment as engines of future growth.
The project aims at strengthening key financial institutions and markets in Madagascar (including
privatization of the two remaining state banks), thereby enhancing public trust in them and enabling them
to mobilize savings to meet the investment financing needs of the private sector. The project will be
implemented in the context of the Government's Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development
Policy adopted in March 1993. Specifically, the project would aim at: (i) enhancing the Central Bank's
(BCRM) ability to formulate and conduct monetary policy based on indirect instruments; (ii) improving
the prudential supervision environment through the strengthening of the Financial Supervisory
Commission (CCBEF); (iii) formulating and enforcing accounting audit and financial disclosure standards
based on international norms; and (iv) supporting the privatization of state banks.
3.2    The scope of the project, which would be supported by the proposed SDR 4.6 million Credit,
is described in detail below. The project consists of:
(a)  restructuring BCRM, the Central Bank, principally through improvements in its research, open
market, treasury, internal audit and accounting operations, and through the implementation of
information technology and human resource development plans;
(b)  strengthening CCBEF, the Financial Supervisory Commission, with technical assistance to create
an effective supervision structure, training for inspectors and equipment for on - and off - site
surveillance;
(c)  improving the accounting and audit environment, through two sets of activities: (i) technical
assistance and training activities to accelerate the development of the accounting profession and
to ensure the availability of reliable financial information on enterprises based on international
standards; and (ii) specific technical assistance and training to bankers, auditors and other
professionals to establish, disseminate and implement transparent international accounting and
audit procedures for commercial banks and financial institutions; and
(d)  supporting the privatization of banks in the context of an ongoing process of privatizing one of
the two state banks, BTM, and a government commitment to a similar process for the other state
bank, BFV, by providing specialized consultant services such as for valuation and placement of
these banks among private investors.



- 19 -
The project components are described in detail in paras. 3.4 to 3.27 below. The Credit would finance
technical assistance, training, equipment, and vehicles. Several working groups were created within the
Government and the private sector for preparing and eventually implementing these financial sector
reforms. Collaboration with IMF has been especially important in: (i) the design of CCBEF component
of the project in follow-up to IMF initiative in recruiting and placing a seasoned bank inspector to lead
the institutional development of CCBEF; and (ii) the review of BCRM statutes. The revision of BCRM
Statutes, recently adopted by Govermnent, will ensure greater independence and accountability of BCRM.
During negotiations, when the revisions were finalized, assurances were obtained that promulgation of
the ordinance on the revised statutes would take place prior to credit effectiveness. The project is a
critical first step in a wider program of financial reforms which is needed to help revive private savings
and investment after an extended period of political turbulence. It will lay the foundations for broader
policy reforms in the financial sector, which will facilitate and reinforce an adequate macro-economic
framework once it is developed.
B.     Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.3    The project conforms to the Bank's country assistance strategy as presented to the Board on June
9, 1992, in that it supports the country's key objectives to: (i) improve macroeconomic management by
strengthening formulation and execution of monetary policy, which would entail increased Central Bank
independence, with a view to promoting the productive use of credit and containing inflation; (ii) reduce
the role and scope of the public sector, notably in the financial system; and (iii) promote private sector
development by enhancing the quality of financial intermediation. The project forms part of the Bank's
"core" lending program to Madagascar aimed at institutional capacity building. The project follows
IDA's Madagascar financial sector study (Report No. 9817-MAG, March 1992) and extensive dialogue
and preparation in close collaboration with the IMF, notably in the areas of reviewing the BCRM Statutes
and the design of the CCBEF component.
C.    Project Description
1. Restructuring BCRM
3.4    BCRM has demonstrated continuity in its institutional capacity over a number of difficult periods
of economic and political transition. Its structure, however, is still largely geared to the allocation of
credit through direct controls. BCRM is ill prepared to play its role of formulation and execution of
monetary policy through indirect market based instruments. Two distinct deficiencies are at the base of
the institutional weaknesses of BCRM. Firstly, BCRM has an inappropriate structure in both primary
(e.g., research) and support functions (e.g., accounting) to conduct monetary policy through indirect
controls. Secondly, the Bank's human and information technology resources need to be improved and
adapted so that they are better equipped to meet the demands of a market oriented financial sector.
3.5    The project is designed to strengthen BCRM to ensure that both an appropriate structure and
resource base develop so that BCRM has the institutional aptitude to perform its transformed central
banking role, as discussed in paragraphs 3.6 - 3.22 below. Much of the preparation work for the project
was done by BCRM itself through the development of its Strategic Development Plan (SDP) which has
been the basis for the preparation of the project. Over seventy BCRM staff members, including all



- 20 -
department managers and professionals, have been involved in the preparation of the SDP since August
1992. The BCRM SDP was adopted by its Board as working document in April 1993.
(a) Streng2tening and Restructuring BCRM DeDartnents and Functions
3.6     The SDP that BCRM has prepared contains a statement of objectives on which will be based
action plans to restructure and strengthen all departments of BCRM. In their current form, these action
plans diagnose existing problems in the functioning of these departments and propose a three-year strategy
for revamping each department's operating methods, logistics and manpower. The project will provide
assistance in further specification of these action plans and financing for key features thereof as discussed
below.
3.7    Advisory services in Central Bank Organization: The project will finance the services of a
small team of Central Bank advisers who will advise the management of BCRM in worldwide
organizational practices in central banking and particularly assist in redefining the functional
responsibilities of various departments of BCRM. This will enable the management of BCRM to identify
the best or most appropriate practices developed in other central banks to apply in reorganizing the
BCRM over the three-year span of the project.
3.8    Research Functions. With the requirement for BCRM to have access to macroeconomic, and
policy related data on a systematic basis so that it can fulfill its role in formulating and executing
monetary policy, the SDP provides for the development of the Research Department exercising specific
data analysis and policy functions. The project will support: (i) the work of an expatriate technical advisor
to help implement a three-year action plan for this department, during which time a local director and
core staff will be trained to take over this function and ensure the flow of critical information in the
formulation of monetary decision (see terms of reference in Annex 3); (ii) strengthening, through specific
training and technical assistance, BCRM capacity to formulate monetary policy as well as act as advisor
to the Government ; and (iii) improvement of BCRM ability to keep the public informed through the
regular publication of statistical, policy and research information. This element of BCRM component
will be financed in large part by the United States Agency for International Development. Actions will
then result in: (a) the preparation of an annual review of the economic and monetary environment;
(b) enhancement of the quarterly statistics bulletin; and (c) the publication of occasional research papers.
3.9    Open Market Operations. In preparation for a progressive shift away from direct to indirect
monetary controls, as and when fiscal and commercial bank reforms permit, the project will provide
training and technical assistance to the Credit Department to: (i) improve money market auction
operations so that they are responsive to the supply and demand for resources; (ii) develop reserve
requirements into a fully fledged tool of monetary control; (iii) improve planning and coordination with
the Treasury in the financing of public debt; and (iv) generally improve the utilization of information in
order to permit better liquidity management.
3.10   Foreign Exchange Operations. In preparation for a gradual shift to a market determined system
of allocating foreign resources, which will be closely coordinated with fiscal and institutional reforms,
the project will provide training and technical assistance to the Foreign Services Department in BCRM
to: (i) improve information systems so that BCRM is in a position to play a supervisory rather than an
allocative role in the foreign exchange market; and (ii) improve procedures in forecasting and analysis
of treasury management in foreign currencies. The Government of Switzerland (GOS) has confirmed its
interest to finance this component, administered directly by the Swiss Development Cooperation.



-21 -
3.11   External Debt Management. To support the efficient management of external debt, the project
will provide technical assistance and training to the newly created department (Department for the
Management of External Debt) in BCRM to: (i) improve procedures in forecasting and analysis of
external public and private debt servicing burdens and appropriate asset-liability management techniques,
and; and (ii) improve planning and coordination with the Treasury in the management of public external
debt.
3.12   Clearing Operations and Circulation of Bank Notes. To increase the efficiency of management
in clearing operations and in the distribution of notes and coins, the project will provide technical
assistance, training, and equipment to the Financial Operations Department to: (i) strengthen capacities
in forecasting currency requirements for payments needs of the banking system; (ii) improve logistics in
note and coin management to minimize insurance and transportation costs; (iii) improve domestic
communications with the bank's branch in Tamatave and its agencies throughout the country; (iv) review
the need and possibilities to introduce clearing based on exchange of information rather than documents;
and (v) strengthen security in the handling and distribution of coins and bank notes for payments needs.
3.13   Accounting Systemns. In order to provide the appropriate financial information to management
and, at the same time, improve the capacity within BCRM to monitor and control its accounting
functions, the project will provide technical assistance to: (i) evaluate the accounting system and make
recommendations for its improvement; (ii) introduce an improved accounting system permitting a proper
separation of responsibilities between the different departments and operating units involved, as well as
more effective record keeping and internal control; (iii) assist in the introduction of the NPCB within
BCRM, taking into account the specific requirements of a central bank and the need to adhere to the
International Accounting Standards applicable to banking institutions. This work will include the
elaboration of an accounting manual; (iv) provide associated training; and (v) assist in establishing a
modern archiving system which will be coordinated with the overall filing initiative at BCRM. An
external audit of BCRM will be undertaken in mid-1993. Apart from the traditional audit, this will also
include an assessment of the accounting and internal audit capacities of BCRM. The process of
undertaking the external audit is already underway and its completion is a condition of Credit
effectiveness. This first external audit also lays the ground for regular annual audits beginning in 1994,
and the annual publication of audited accounts. Recommendations resulting from this audit will be taken
into consideration when redefining and reorganizing the accounting system of BCRM. The redefinition
and reorganization of the accounting system will be undertaken in a broader study, the terms of reference
of which are presented in Annex 3 and which will initiate the technical assistance described above.
3.14   Internal Audit. The SDP envisages the creation of an internal audit unit within BCRM with a
clear distinction between its activities and those associated with prudential supervision of financial
institutions, thereby eliminating the problems being experienced by the present Inspection Department.
The project will provide technical assistance to: (i) define the structure and responsibility of the internal
audit unit with a view to ensuring its independence. This unit will be directly responsible to the Board
but will report to the Governor on a day to day basis; (ii) assist in developing and implementing methods
needed for meeting the requirements of an efficient internal audit unit; (iii) assist in developing an internal
audit work plan for 1994, as well as appropriate detailed audit programs, procedures and reporting
formats. The annual internal audit work plan and a report on its implementation, will be presented to the
Board of BCRM; and (iv) evaluate the capabilities of existing and newly recruited staff and develop and
implement a training program to ensure that the unit has the human resources and skills necessary to
implement its work plan effectively and thereby assume its role as a key element of control within
BCRM. The project will also provide the necessary equipment needed to by the internal audit unit



- 22 -
including the provision of calculators. The Government of Switzerland (GOS) has confirmed its interest
to finance this component.
(b) Information Systems
3.15   Restructuring of the information systems in BCRM will be guided by an information technology
strategy whose objective will be to ensure that the information needs of the restructured and strengthened
BCRM departments (outlined in paras. 3.8 to 3.14 above) and more generally the evolving information
requirements of the bank are met. The overall objective is to develop new institutional capabilities at
BCRM through improvements in administration and information systems. While computer technology will
be used for this, the emphasis of the program is placed not on the technology itself, but on the
institutional improvements that can be achieved through its judicious use. Following the definition of an
information strategy, a three-year information plan will be drawn up as part of the project (see Annex
3 for terms of reference of first year activities and Annex 4 for detailed description of informatics
program).
3.16   The project will provide technical assistance, training and equipment which will:
(a) Support the finalization and implementation of the Information Technology Strategy (IT)
including:
-   procedures for annual planning and follow up on the information technology plan;
-   introduction of modern information technology methods and techniques, as well as
improvement of management and staff skills to plan, develop, maintain and use
information systems;
-   development and implementation of an IT security strategy.
(b)  Assist in the development and the implementation of an information technology plan. Based on
the information strategy this plan will detail the work to be done during 1993- 1995. This
includes both procurement of application packages and systems development;
(c)  Assist in the procurement of hardware, which will include a strategy for the replacement of the
outdated mainframe system;
(d)  Assist in the design and implementation of a pilot information system in the bank.
3.17   The introduction of the information technology plan will be phased, taking into account the
institutional readiness to absorb new technology and implement administrative and managerial changes.
The plan will be sensitive to the fact that modern information technology - while flexible, ubiquitous, and
relatively inexpensive - requires orderly implementation to yield expected benefits. It also recognizes that
investments in information technology will only be successful if BCRM first has an information
technology strategy and concurrently takes measures to improve its operational, administrative and
accounting practices.
3.18   Implementation of Information Technology.  The planned steps for implementing the
information systems aspects of the project are as follows: (i) first, the Information Technology strategy



- 23 -
will be finalized; (ii) in parallel, with the implementation of the IT strategy, a pilot subproject will run
with a view to test the IT strategy and at the same time replaced the outdated mainframe; (iii) an
Information Technology Plan for 1994-96 will be developed and adopted during the last quarter of 1993
as part of the budget process of BCRM; (iv) based on the IT plan, the information systems agreed upon
will be developed and implemented in different areas of BCRM; and (v) the hardware required will be
procured in accordance with the IT strategy and installed in pace with the implementation of the
applications. Annex 4 provides further details on the information technology aspects of the project.
Human Resource Development
3.19    A human resource development plan will ensure that the skills requirements of the restructured
and strengthened BCRM departments (outlined in paras 3.8 - 3.18 above), and more generally the
evolving personnel needs of BCRM, are met. Initial work has already been carried out to determine the
qualifications and the quality of skills in 35 of the higher professional staff at BCRM.
3.20   The project will provide assistance to: (i) develop and implement an improved personnel policy
including systems for staff classification, career planning and promotion and job-rotation; (ii) review
personnel needs in different departments and to define the complementary training needed for
redeployment; (iii) define training modules for various occupational streams such as economist and
financial analysts; (iv) support training programs to meet the skills requirements of the restructured bank
over a three-year period; and (v) assist in the development of the personnel management function to
improve staff classification, rotation, promotion and training. This element of the component of BCRM
will be financed in large part by the United States Agency for International Development.
3.21   It should be noted that the training areas outlined in the human resource development plan will
identify the needs and plans in the restructured departments outlined in paragraphs 3.8-3.14 and
supplement them in functions which cut across more than one department (eg. accounting).
3.22   Project Management Assistance. To ensure the sustainabiity of the new strategic planning and
development function it has created, BCRM will seek assistance over a two-year period in project
planning and execution. The initial objective will be to train and support the Coordinator for Strategic
Planning and Development, a new director-level position that has been created in BCRM, in latest
methods of business planning and execution of information technology projects. At the end of two years,
it is expected that BCRM will acquire a basic capacity to design and execute institutional development
projects of this kind on its own. Consulting services for this component is expected to be financed by the
Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS). The project will provide
additional support for overseas training and study visits.
2. Strenethenine CCBEF
3.23   In anticipation of a shift to greater reliance on indirect controls in the conduct of monetary
policy, the supervision capacity of CCBEF will be strengthened under the project so that it can undertake
complete prudential supervision of financial institutions, consistent with the management of an open
market system. The project complements the initiative of the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department
in IMF to recruit a seasoned bank inspector before July 1993, as external advisor to the Chairman of
CCBEF. The advisor will, in close cooperation with the Secretary General of CCBEF, define the
objectives and action plan for CCBEF to be financed by the project based on CCBEF Strategic
Development Plan to be adopted by its Board. This action plan will ensure that CCBEF, in assuming the



- 24 -
primary role of supervision of financial institutions, develops adequate capacity for this purpose. A key
feature of the action plan will be the systematic on site inspection of all the commercial banks. The first
round of these annual on-site inspections will be completed by June 1994. Another key element in the
program of the advisor will be to lead a training program to upgrade skills in existing and newly enlisted
staff to ensure the sustainable implementation of rigorous prudential supervision. The project will finance
additional necessary training and equipment and standard packages for developing and implementing
information systems, hardware in the form of stationary and portable micro computers, and vehicles to
facilitate on-site inspections. CCBEF will also monitor the interventions of external auditors (including
the Commissaire aux Comptes) and will promote the application of international standards of auditing in
the examination of the accounts of banks.
3. Improving the Accounting and Audit Framework
3.24   Two issues are addressed in this part of the project to improve the transparency and effective
supervision of the banking system, corresponding to two sets of activities. First, improvements in
accounting and audit practices are supported to accelerate the development of the accounting profession
and to ensure the availability of reliable financial information on enterprises based on international
standards. Training and technical assistance activities in this area will be complemented by the Ministry
of Budget in collaboration with the Ordre des Experts Comptables et des Comptables Agres (Institute
of Chartered Accountants). Modifications to the existing ordinance governing the profession, which
ensure that international standards are subscribed to and foreign accounting firms are not discriminated
against, were detailed during negotiations and the promulgation of a revised ordinance is a condition of
disbursement of this subcomponent of the credit. The development of the profession should allow for the
admission of appropriately qualified accountants of other nationalities, and the general application of
International Accounting Standards and International Standards of Auditing throughout the country, thus
facilitating the eventual entry to membership of IFAC of the Malagasy accounting profession; and the
provision of the training necessary for the implementation of such Standards. Terms of reference for these
activities are found in Annex 3.
3.25   Second, improvements in accounting and audit practices are supported to ensure the availability
of reliable financial information in the banking sector to facilitate financial supervision by CCBEF, so
that it can adequately perform its regulatory functions.The new chart of accounts for banks and financial
institutions (NPCB) has been discussed between CCBEF and the commercial banks and its introduction
has been agreed. It now needs to be finalized, approved by CCBEF, and disseminated with a view to
being correctly implemented in all financial institutions, with special reference to BCRM and the
commercial banks, from January 1, 1994. This will ensure that, in the future, financial information in
a concise and comparable form is readily available. Furthermore the presentation of this information
should conform to International Accounting Standards as laid down by the International Accounting
Standards Committee (IASC). The project will support: (i) an ongoing review of the NPCB to ensure that
it adheres to existing and future international accounting standards applicable to financial institutions,
including IAS30 (Disclosure in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions); and
(ii) the implementation of the NPCB through training and seminars in the financial sector with special
reference to the commercial banks. CCBEF will assume a key role for undertaking these activities. The
resulting training activities are expected to be placed in INSCAE (School of Business Management And
Accounting) in association with CNFPB (Banking Training School). Detailed terms of reference are found
in Annex 3.



- 25 -
3.26   Training and technical assistance activities in both the above activities will be implemented by
the Ministry of Budget in collaboration with the Ordre des Experts Comptables et des Comptables Agres
(nstitute of Chartered Accountants) and CCBEF respectively.
4. Support to State Bank Privatization
3.27    The privatization of the two state banks is featured as a goal in the Government's Statement of
Financial Sector Reform and Development Policy (see Annex 1). The process of privatizing one of the
two state banks, BTM, has already begun and the Government has committed itself to a similar process
for the other state bank, BFV. Preliminary valuation work for BTM was financed under the on-going
IDA Financial And Private Sector Development (APEX) Project (Cr. 2104-MAG). A strategy detailing
further steps to be taken in the privatization of both banks was agreed at negotiations. The project will
support the privatization process to the point of sale, by financing specialized consulting services such
as for the valuation and placement of these banks with private investors. In the course of privatization,
it is expected that all regular activities such as annual financial audits will continue to be self-financed
by the banks themselves.
D.    ProJect Cost
3.28   Total project costs are estimated at US$10.4 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$9.5 million. These are summarized in the Project Summary Table on page (iii) and detailed in
Annex 5. Costs have been calculated excluding taxes and duties. Costs include expenses related to
consulting services for technical assistance and studies; training both locally and abroad; the purchase
of equipment, including computer hardware/software, vehicles and teaching materials.
3.29   Technical assistance and training costs are based on recent costs for comparable technical
assistance and training being provided by the Bank under other projects and by other institutions,
including UNDP. The costs include transportation and housing allowance where needed, such as in the
case of the short term consultants and of travel abroad. The costs have been estimated as follows:
(i) specialist services, USS130,00 per annum; (ii) short-term consultants, US$20,000 per month;
(iii) short-term seminars abroad for high level staff, US$10,000 per week.
3.30   Equipment costs are based on (i) international procurement prices recently awarded for similar
projects following ICB procedures and (ii) estimates of freighting costs to Madagascar.
3.31   The base costs for the project are expressed in end-1992 prices. Project costs include physical
contingencies for equipment averaging about 5 percent of base costs per annum. Price contingencies
(expressed in dollars) have also been added, with annual rates of 4 percent during project implementation.
3.32   Estimates for the foreign exchange component were arrived at as follows: (a) equipment and
vehicles, 100 percent; (b) training abroad, 100 percent; and (c) specialist services and short-term
consultants, 88 percent. The resulting foreign exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated
at about US$9.5 million.



- 26 -
E.    Project Financing
3.33   The proposed IDA credit of US$6.3 million equivalent would finance 60 percent of total costs.
USAID financing, estimated at US$3.0 million, would provide technical assistance and training support
for the areas of research and human resource functions element under the BCRM component of the
project. Switzerland will contribute an estimated US$0.6 million of the project which will cover technical
assistance, training and equipment for foreign exchange and internal audit operations. BITS, the Swedish
technical assistance agency, will provide US$0.5 million equivalent for project management assistance
for project coordination. Effectiveness of all co-financier agreements will be a condition of IDA Credit
effectiveness. A summary of the financing plan is outlined in the Project Summary Table on page (iii),
with Annex 5 giving details of the project financing by nature of the activity to be funded. All
incremental staff costs of formulating and implementing Strategic Development Plans (SDPs) will be
directly and fully assumed by BCRM and CCBEF, including the costs of the newly-created Department
of Strategic Planning and Development. Furthermore, the project coordinating cost in the Ministries of
Finance, Budget, BCRM and CCBEF will be borne by these implementing agencies.
F.     Project Implementation, Monitorinf and Mid-Term Revi
3.34   Institutional arrangements: BCRM is the executing agency for the BCRM component of the
project. Since CCBEF is an independent commission but not a legal entity, and is chaired by the
Governor of BCRM, the Government has also designated BCRM as the executing agency for the CCBEF
component. The Ministry of Budget has been designated the implementing agency for the third
component - improving the accounting and audit framework - in which it will collaborate with the Ordre
des Experts Comptables et Comptables Agrees and with CCBEF. The Ministry of Finance will implement
the fourth component - supporting the privatization of banks - in collaboration with BCRM. Project funds
for the first and second components will be made available by the Government to BCRM on a grant basis
as provided for in a subsidiary credit agreement, to be signed prior to Credit effectiveness.
3.35   To implement its strategic development plan, BCRM has created and filled a new position of
Coordinator for Strategic Planning and Development. (See Annex 10 for the Terms of reference of the
coordinator). The coordinator will also be responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of this
project. During negotiations, assurances were given that this position will be filled at all times with
qualified personnel acceptable to IDA. The project coordinator will act as secretary to BCRM steering
committee which will review and approve all organizational and information technology plans for BCRM.
The BCRM component of the project will be guided by the BCRM Strategic Development Plan and its
composite Human Resource and Information Technology plans.
3.36   In addition, an expatriate adviser to the Research Department will be responsible for helping
implementation of this key area under the BCRM component of the project. Project coordinators in the
CCBEF and Ministries of Budget and Finance, whose terms of reference were finalized at negotiations,
in addition to the BCRM Coordinator for Strategic Planning and Development will supervise the selection
of consultants and procurement of equipment, materials and supplies for the components which concern
them directly.
3.37   In the case of the accounting and audit component, the Ministry of Budget will take the lead in
implementing this component in collaboration with the Ordre des Experts Comptables et Comptables
Agrees and CCBEF. Technical assistance to review and implement changes in the regulatory framework



- 27 -
of the accounting profession will primarily be under the responsibility of the Ordre des Experts
Comptables et des Comptables Agrdes. Technical assistance specifically related to reviewing the NPCB
and providing training for its implementation within the financial sector will primarily be coordinated by
CCBEF.
3.38   The Ministries of Finance and Budget, BCRM, CCBEF and IDA will jointly organize a project
launch workshop immediately after credit effectiveness to familiarize key officials of all agencies with
important aspects of the project, including procurement and disbursement procedures. The scope of the
project launch workshop has been discussed with the beneficiary agencies.
3.39   An annual project implementation review will be conducted by the World Bank, BCRM Strategic
Planning and Development Coordinator, the coordinators of the Ministries of Finance and Budget and
of the CCBEF, and relevant staff from each of the beneficiaries. These reviews will, in addition, monitor
overall project execution with specific reference to the monitorable indicators mentioned in Annex 8 and
agreed at negotiations, update the project timetable, identify implementation issues and develop
appropriate solutions to arising problems. The BCRM, CCBEF and Ministries of Finance and Budget
coordinators will make the necessary arrangements to provide the required information for the annual
review and to furnish any other information that maybe required by IDA on an ad hoc basis of the
project.
3.40   Mid-Term Review. It was agreed that BCRM and the Ministries of Finance and Budget shall
no later than September 30, 1994, carry out, jointly with IDA and with the participation of CCBEF, a
mid-term review of the project with a view to implementing soon thereafter the recommendations of the
review. This review will cover inter alia: (a) overall project performance against established and agreed
key performance indicators (see Annex 8); (b) an assessment of project sustainability; (c) evaluation of
consultant's performance; (d) review of the organizational changes in BCRM and CCBEF during the first
year of the project to gauge how far departmental functions have been appropriately streamlined; (e)
evaluation of the progress of the accounting and audit component; and (f) evaluation of the completion
of privatization of banks. In order to facilitate this review, BCRM and the Ministries of Finance and
Budget have agreed to prepare, no later than four weeks before the review date, a preliminary mid-term
review report, the format of which will be agreed upon beforehand with IDA.
3.41   Finalization of the action plans of individual BCRM departments and the related allocation of
project funds among different departments is expected to be agreed upon during the mid-term review.
This would enable the major parts of the informatics program and human resources development plan to
take place during 1995 and 1996. The mid-term review will also be the occasion to finalize the new
organization charts for BCRM and CCBEF, detailing the new functional responsibilities and staffing of
various departments, based on the implementation of their strategic development plans (SDPs) during the
first year of the project.
G.    Procurement
3.42   Madagascar's cumbersome procurement regulations were a major constraint to the
implementation of Bank-financed projects. This was due to the fact that many ministries performed
numerous reviews. In January 1991, the Government issued new regulations on public procurement
following a comprehensive review of the country's procurement regulations (Country Implementation
Review (CIR), December 1990). A follow-up CIR occurred in March 1992, resulting in the



- 28 -
Government's decision to use Bank Sample Bidding Documents (Prime Minister's decree No. 892/92,
March 6, 1992). This is expected to speed up procurement and project implementation considerably.
3.43   Procurement for equipment amounting to more than US$125,000 would be based on contracts
awarded following international competitive bidding procedures, in accordance with 'Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May 1992. Bid packages for goods with an
estimated value below $125,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$600,000 would be awarded
through local competitive bidding procedures advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Small contracts for equipment, furniture and office supplies amounting to US$50,000 or less per
contract, and up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000, would be procured through local
shopping with price quotations from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Consultancies include technical assistance, training and studies (US$3.2 million).
Consulting services would be selected in accordance with "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency," dated August 1981. This would allow the
Project coordinators to engage consultancy services up to a limit of US$50,000 based on standard
documents agreed during negotiations. All major consultancy works above this ceiling would require IDA
approval on a non-objection basis. A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 1 below.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the project coordinator who will organize selection committees
consisting of the relevant departments of their respective organizations and government agencies to review
each tender offer.
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Project Element                                                    Total
I.C.B.    L.C.B.    Other        N.B.F.      Cost
1. Good
1.1 Equipment, Vehicles and   0.3        0.3        0.1         -         0.7
Supplies                  (0.3)      (0.3)      (0.1)        -        (0.7)
1.2 Informatics               2.0        0.3        0.1         -         2.4
(2.0)      (0.3)     (0.1)        -         (2.4)
2. Techmical Assistance,
Audifing Services
& Training                   --                    2.8        4.1        6.9
-      ~     ~~- (2.8)                  (2.8)
3. MisCedianeois
3.1 Refinancing PPF                     (- 0.4                 -         0.4
-         -          (0.4)       -         (0.4)
TOTAL                        2.3        0.6        3.4        4.1       10.4
(2.3)     (0.6)      (3.4)        -         (6.3)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N.B.F: Not Bank-financed.



- 29 -
3.44   IDA-financed contracts above a threshold of US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review
for the first year of the project, or until it is determined that there is sufficient experience; at that point,
a higher ceiling may be set. Under these procedures, IDA's prior review would cover about 80 percent
of total contracts. Selective review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels should be carried out
on about one in six goods contracts. To simplify the task of contract review, standard bidding documents
and letters of invitation for consultants will be prepared prior to effectiveness.
H.    Disbursements
3.45   Disbursement under the IDA Credit would be made on the basis of categories and percentages
shown in Table 2 below. The Credit would be disbursed on the basis of fully documented withdrawal
applications, except for expenses disbursed against SOEs, as described in para.3.46. The estimated
disbursement profile is outlined in Annex 6.
3.46 Special Accounts: In order to facilitate the disbursement of funds, two Special Accounts will
be opened, one by BCRM in one of its foreign correspondents and the other by the Ministry of Finance
in a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA. The initial deposits amount to US$ 200,000 and US$ 100,000
respectively and cover four months of eligible expenditures. Replenishments of the Special Accounts
would be made on a monthly basis and would be fully documented except for contracts valued at less than
$ 20,000 equivalent which will be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for which
documentation shall be reviewed as part of annual audits of the project. Replenishments will be supported
by bank statements and reconciliation of statements.
Table 2: Summary of Disbursements
Percentage       US$
Financed      Million
Category
1. Equipment, Vehicles & Supplies "
1.1 BCRM                                             100% I/       2.63
1.2 CCBEF                                            100% Z/       0.20
1.3 Accounting & Audit Framework
1.3.1 Regulatory Framework Reform                100% I/        0.06
2. Technical Assistance, Auditing Services & Training
2.1 BCRM                                             100%           1.53
2.2 CCBEF                                            100%           0.36
2.3 Accounting & Auditing Framework
2.3.1 Regulatory Framework Reform                 100%          0.45
2.3.2 Review & Implementation of NPCB             100%          0.12
2.4 Supporting Privatization of Banks                100%           0.20
3. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance          Amounts due       0.35
4. Unallocated                                           100%          0.40
TOTAL                                                      -           6.30
All foreign costs exclude taxes and duties.
Z/     Except local expenditures for which the credit will finance 85  of local costs.



- 30 -
I.     Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
3.47   BCRM, CCBEF and the Ministries of Finance and Budget will establish and maintain project
related accounts for their respective interventions. Project accounts, to reflect all project resources,
expenditures, assets and liabilities, will be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Annual General Statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards and audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. A review of the Special Account and an auditor's opinion with special emphasis on
the audit of SOEs will be provided. The auditor's report will include a statement on the inadequacy or
otherwise of the accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of the statement of expenditures
as a basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. BCRM annual financial
statements will be prepared and audited in accordance with International Accounting Standards and
International Standards on Auditing. The audited financial statements and auditors' reports thereof will
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the period to which they relate.
3.48   The Ministries of Finance and Budget, BCRM, and CCBEF no later than September 30 of each
year, will provide IDA for its review and approval detailed work programs of their respective components
of the Project for the forthcoming year. Furthermore, the Ministries of Finance and Budget and BCRM
will provide IDA with an evaluation report of the Project activities undertaken in the previous twelve
month period between September 1 and August 31. These programs, budgets and reports will be
prepared by BCRM, with the assistance of CCBEF for the first and second components of the project
referred to in paragraph 3.2., and by the Ministry of Budget, with the assistance of the Ordre des Experts
Comptables and CCBEF, for the third component, and by the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance
of BCRM, for the fourth component. During negotiations, assurances were obtained in that respect.
3.49   The project coordinator of BCRM, in collaboration with the coordinators in the Ministries of
Finance and Budget, and CCBEF, will submit to IDA semi-annual reports on project implementation,
including procurement information and expenditures by March 30 and September 30 of each year,
beginning in March 1994, using a standardized reporting format, and indicating:
(a)   updated cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; and
(b)  the revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract awards, and
completion time for individual contracts.
3.50   The Project completion date is expected to be September 30, 1996. A Project Completion Report
will be submitted to IDA within six months of the Closing Date of the IDA Credit.
J.     Project Supervision
3.51   Given the multi-faceted nature of project components requiring specialized follow-up and
involving important institution building efforts, project supervision input by Bank staff is expected to be
above average in the early stages of the project (during the first fifteen months, beginning with Credit
effectiveness). The organizational structure of the project, which includes an experienced Project
Coordinator at the BCRM to oversee BCRM component, and the common reporting and review
arrangements, which the co-financiers have agreed to adopt, will facilitate project implementation and
supervision. To ensure clear understanding of project implementation requirements, an implementation
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -   - - - - -



- 31 -
manual has been drafted and will be finalized with Malagasy counterparts during the project launch
workshop in September 1993. The workshop will include sessions on procurement and disbursement
under IDA-financed projects, standard formats and procedures to be used for project reporting, and
detailed review of the implementation timetable with all concerned departments of BCRM and CCBEF.
A proposed supervision plan for the project is found in Annex 9.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits
4.1    The strengthening of the financial sector is critical to the development of market oriented
financial institutions. In turn, a sound financial system, with an effective banking system at its core, will
facilitate productive investments and contribute to accelerated economic growth and the creation of
employment opportunities which are key factors in poverty alleviation. Fundamental institutional
weaknesses in Madagascar's financial sector have undermined previous structural adjustment programs,
underscoring the importance that needs to be attached to institution capacity building to ensure the
effective resumption of economic reform and its sustainability. This project takes advantage of a period
of political transition to improve the effectiveness of the financial sector in preparation for further strides
towards a market determined economy. The project will help implement an overall strategy for market
oriented financial reforms, particularly in strengthening the framework for prudential supervision,
accounting and audit.
4.2    The project is expected to contribute significantly to enhancing the capacity, transparency and
accountability of key financial institutions, notably the central bank (BCRM) and the Financial
Supervisory Commission (CCBEF). Through a process of restructuring and improvements to human and
information technology resources, BCRM and CCBEF will be better prepared to play their fundamental
respective roles of regulation and supervision of the monetary and financial markets through indirect
market based instruments. Furthermore the project will play an important role in strengthening the bank
environment by providing technical assistance for the implementation transparent accounting and audit
procedures with specific emphasis on the commercial banks and support for the privatization of the two
remaining state banks.
4.3    Through these initiatives the project is expected to increase the capacity and consequently the
quality of financial intermediation, better preparing the financial sector to play its role in stimulating
financial savings and efficiently channeling them into the real sector, to promote private sector
investment. The project will, therefore, enhance the financial sector's ability to respond to future
economic reforms in a manner that ensures their successful implementation, and helps avert crises rather
than simply react to them.
B.     Project Risks
4.4    The major risks of the project stem from the possible impact of the present transitional political
decision-making structure on effective implementation. Successful implementation is predicated on
political will being maintained to preserve the authority of BCRM and CCBEF, respectively to formulate
and execute monetary policy and to exercise prudential oversight of banks. At the same time, the



- 32 -
institutional development goals for BCRM and CCBEF are complex and ambitious, including significantly
redefined business objectives and extensive use of information technology, and could be subject to
implementation slippages. Another set of risks relates to the timing of resumption of macroeconomic
reforms. This project is designed to strengthen institutional capacities in anticipation of a return to further
economic liberalization in the medium term. If the political transition is longer than expected, institutional
capacity building now will have limited application in the immediate future and consequently limited
sustainability.
4.5    These risks are mitigated by: (i) the high level of commitment to project objectives and to the
project's urgency expressed by a broad spectrum of political figures and technicians; (ii) limiting the
project core to BCRM which has demonstrated continuity in its institutional capacity; (iii) the progress
already made, by BCRM and CCBEF themselves, towards preparing this project, indicating early
ownership and internalization of project design and objectives. Over seventy staff members of BCRM
and CCBEF, including all senior and department managers and professional staff, have participated in
the preparation of the strategic development plans (SDPs) of both institutions since August 1992; (iv) the
inclusion in the project of project management assistance for a two-year period which will help BCRM
strengthen its capacity to plan and implemmnt projects of this kind involving strategic business analysis
and use of information technology; and (v) up-front agreement and implementation of key organizational
and institutional changes necessary to execute the project.
V. AGREEMENS  SURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIO
5.1    Prior to Board Dresentation:
(a)   the Government adopted in early May 1993 the revised Statutes of BCRM (para. 3.2);
(b)   the Government furnished to IDA a Statement of Financial Sector Reform  and
Development Policy dated March 3, 1993 (para. 3.1 and Annex 1);
(c)   the BCRM and CCBEF Boards adopted their respective Strategic Development Plans
(SDPs) in April 1993 (para. 3.5 and 3.23).
5.2    During negotiations. agreement was reached on:
(a)   the terms of reference for BCRM external audit and the process for selecting the external
auditors was started (para. 3.13);
(b)   the position of Project Coordinators in BCRM, in the Ministries of Finance and Budget
and in CCBEF to be filled at all times with personnel with responsibilities, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.39);
(c)   a privatization strategy for the remaining two state banks (para. 3.27);
(d)   the modifications required for the ordinance governing the accounting profession (para.
3.24);



- 33 -
(e)   monitorable actions for the project (para. 3.39, Annex 8);
(f)   the timing and scope of the mid-term review (para. 3.40).
(g)   annual detailed work programs and budgets to be furnished to IDA for review and
approval together with an evaluation report of project activities undertaken during the
previous year (para. 3.48).
5.3    Conditions of effectiveness:
The following will be conditions of effectiveness for the proposed Credit:
(a)   promulgation of the ordinance setting forth revised BCRM statutes (para. 3.2);
(b)   receipt by IDA of the external audit report of BCRM for fiscal year 1992 (para 3.13);
(c)   signing of the subsidiary credit agreement between the Government and BCRM (para.
3.34).
(d)   effectiveness of all co-financier agreements (para 3.33).
5.4    Conditions of Disbursement:
The promulgation of a new ordinance, with contents satisfactory to IDA, for the "Ordre des
Experts Comptables et Financiers et Comptables AgrWes (Institute of Chartered Accountants)
will be a condition of disbursement for technical assistance, training and equipment to the Ordre
des Experts Comptables et Comptables Agr6ds under the third component of the project (para.
2.63 and 3.24).
5.5    Recommendation:
Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 4.6 million (US$ 6.3 million equivalent) to the Republic of Madagascar on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Statement of Financial Sector Reform and Development Policy
1.       Recognizing the vital importance of ensuring the effective allocation and mobilization of
capital through the use of efficient financial systems, the Government wishes to pursue a two-phase
comprehensive program for the reform and development of the financial system in Madagascar. This
program is related to the pursuit of macroeconomic stability and economic growth based on a reduction
and non-inflationary financing of the budget deficit, including the elimination of the quasi-fiscal deficit
of the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM), the program related to the Government's divestiture from
the productive sectors of the economy, and a higher degree of factor mobility. The importance which
the Government attaches to this program is primarily a reflection of the concern for sound development
in the private sector, so that restored private investment and savings can serve as a driving force for
economic growth in the coming years.
2.    The comprehensive program for the reform and development of the financial sector is designed
to reach the following objectives:
(i)   To improve the regulatory, legal, and accounting environment with a view to ensuring
the security of contracts and financial instruments, and the sound management of financial
institutions in accordance with the internationally-accepted rules of prudence and
transparency;
(ii)   To shift to a monetary policy based on indirect instruments, to enable BCRM in the long
term to eliminate the credit ceilings allocated to individual banks;
(iii)   To reinforce the market mechanisms with increased competition resulting from the entry
of new private institutions operating within an appropriate regulatory framework;
(iv)  To encourage the creation of money and capital markets, aiming initially, inter alia, at
implementing a more effective structure for the issuance and trading of treasury securities
(concurrently with a strict ceiling on claims on Government and Government paper held
by BCRM), and the gradual issue of financial securities by financial institutions and/or
private nonfinancial enterprises; and
(v)  To promote interest rates determined by the market as competition intensifies and as a
more market-oriented regulatory framework develops;
3.    In the context of this comprehensive program, reinforcement of the institutional capacities of the
financial system, primarily those of BCRM, the Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF), and the
strengthening of the accounting and audit framework, constitute an absolute priority for phase one of the



Anex 1
Page 2 of 6
financial system reforms, aiming to lay the foundations for other fundamental reforms which include,
among others, the shift to the use of indirect monetary policy instruments. The reform and development
of the financial system in Madagascar will begin with an initial phase of reforms. This first phase
primarily involves the institutional reinforcement of the financial system as stated below:
(i)  to strengthen the independence of BCRM and its institutional capacity to formulate and
execute monetary policy, eventually through indirect instruments (see paragraphs 6 to
10);
(ii)  to restructure financial institutions and remove the Government from the ownership and
management of financial institutions, and specifically commercial banks (see paragraphs
11 and 12); and
(iii)  to reinforce the supervision of banks and financial institutions and to adapt the regulatory
framework (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
4.    Phase one pertains to specific priority measures already identified and under way, and measures
to be defined by June 1993. The Government believes that the specific strategy for phase two of the
program will be developed before end-1993.
5.    All activities and measures stipulated in the comprehensive program for reform and development
of the financial sector cover all financial institutions, infrastructure, and financial markets. The strategic
orientation of this program and the activities under way and to be undertaken are indicated below.
I. Financial Institutions
Central Bank of Madagascar
6.    In light of the critical role which an efficient, independent, and responsible central bank plays in
any program to develop the financial system, the restructuring and strengthening of the capacities of
BCRM constitute one of the priorities of the program which is being pursued by the Malagasy authorities.
This objective involves three areas of focus: (i) strengthening BCRM institutional and financial
independence; (ii) making BCRM more accountable and its operations more transparent;
(iii) strengthening the human and logistic resources of BCRM to prepare it more effectively to formulate
and execute monetary policy, primarily with a view to the shift to indirect control of monetary
aggregates.
7.    The independence of BCRM involves both institutional and financial factors. As regards the
institutional aspect, revised statutes for BCRM will be developed by the end of April 1993. This revision
aims primarily at limiting its excessive dependence vis-a-vis the Government in matters concerning the
development and execution of monetary and credit policy. These new statutes will be adopted by the
Government before the middle of May 1993. The financial aspect of BCRM independence consists
primarily of ensuring that its activities do not include those responsibilities which must clearly be
incumbent on the Treasury. To that end, there are two types of actions. The first, which was completed
at the end of 1992, consists of isolating credit to the Government resulting from previous losses and
placing it in a separate account, while stipulating the conditions and modalities for settling these claims.
This makes the quasi-fiscal activities of BCRM which to date have encumbered its balance sheet with non-
interest earning assets and liabilities more transparent. Stage two consists of taking steps before the end



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
of 1993 to prevent the recurrence of past problems and the accrual of new losses. These steps would be
accompanied by a reduction in the budget deficit.
8.    The accountability of BCRM   and its more transparent operations will be accompanied by
strengthening of ifs independence, as described above. Accordingly, an external audit of BCRM and an
analysis of its internal audit function will be assigned to an independent firm, to be undertaken during
the first half of 1993. In addition to a conventional financial audit, this audit will include a study of the
present internal audit function in BCRM and will make recommendations to strengthen this function. The
Government has specified that FINDEP should provide assistance for the structuring and development
of a new internal audit function for BCRM, which would be separate from other functions of BCRM and
would report directly to the Governor and the Board of BCRM.
9.    This initial external audit will then lead to systematic external audits of BCRM for each fiscal
year, to be conducted by an independent and qualified firm, and which would lead to an annual report
published by BCRM accompanied by audited financial statements. The first report is scheduled to be
published in 1994.
10.   The independence of BCRM and its increased accountability will be facilitated by strengthening
of its human and logistic resources, with a view to pursuing its main objective, i.e., to ensure price
stability through monetary policy. To that end, BCRM has prepared a strategic development plan which
it will adopt in March 1993 and which provides for a strengthening of the departments which are directly
responsible for the core functions of central banking (Credit, Foreign Services, and Research) and all
support functions (primarily accounting, data processing, and administration). The assistance of FINDEP
should contribute to the implementation of this plan over a three-year period.
Commercial Banks
11.   In keeping with its concern to ensure that the above mentioned objective is attained, i.e., the
creation of a real financial market with freely determined interest rates, the Government recognizes the
importance of a competitive banking system which meets the needs of economic agents. This goal is
consistent with the orientation which the government adopted in 1988, which consists of replacing the
former roles of the Government as the owner of the financial institutions, and the decision maker for
selective policies for credit and direct control, with a strategy which limits the role of the Government
essentially to providing the appropriate regulation and the supervision necessary for market mechanism
to function properly.
12.   With the final objective of Government divestitureof remaining ownership and bank management,
the Government intends to pursue and accelerate the policy which it began in 1988. Accordingly, the
process of privatizing the BTM was undertaken in 1992, and the Government has followed up on the
recommendations of the consulting firms recruited to that end. Similarly, the Government will pursue
the privatization of the BFV by increasing the share of private stockholders to at least a majority level,
if not to one hundred percent of the capital, by end-1993.
Ins-rance
13.   In the insurance sector, the Government will pursue the objective of introducing private capital
into the two existing state-owned corporations and to open this sector up to competition. Concurrently
the regulatory system governing this sector will be reviewed. These activities will be carried out during
phase two of the program for reform and development of the financial system.



Page 4 of 6
CNaPS and Social Security
14.   Considering the weight which it carries in mobilizing financial resources, the Caimn Nationale
de Prevoyance Sociale (CNaPS) is, in addition to its fundamental role as a social institution, a
considerable institutional investor and, therefore, is one element which must be taken into account in the
reform and development of financial markets and institutions in Madagascar. The Government's goal is
to make the management of CNaPS more efficient by providing it with the required transparency and
increasing its level of accountability. In this connection the Government during the last quarter of 1992
initiated a series of three studies on CNaPS with the assistance of the World Bank and the Intenatonal
Labor Office, i.e., an organizational and financial analysis of CNaPS, an actarial study, and a tudy on
the investment of funds. After these studies are completed, prior to June 1993, nd in the context of
phase two of the program for reform and development of the financial system, a plan of action will be
developed to reorganize CNaPS, which will primarily involve the following elements: (i) more
transparent operations, achieved, inter alia, by preparing financial statements according to international
accounting procedures and auditing them in accordance with the relevant international standards; (ii)
strengthened management of this institution, which includes establishing actuarial forecasting and analysis
capabilities; and (iii) regulations concerning investments of funds more suitable to ensure the security of
funds while participating in the development of financial markets.
Postal financial services
15.   The postal financial services, i.e., the Caisse d'Epargne de Madagascar (CEM), a postal savings
institution, and the Centre de Cheques Postaux (CCP), a postal checkling institution, wIll be restructured
with a view to making them better suited to meet the needs of small- and medium-scale savers and the
payments system, respectively. In the context of its sectoral policy on post and telecommunications
adopted on June 30, 1992, the Government already provided for these services to be more autonomous
and to be managed according to commercial principles. This policy is intended to result in a separation
of the activities of the postal financial services from the Treasury's overall operations, and their
privatization, to the greatest extent possible. The practical ways and means for the implementation of
this strategy are being studied, including the development of the relationships between these services and
private businesses and financial institutions. Phase two of the reforms will include the implementation
of this strategy to be adopted before end-1993.
II. The Financial Infrastructure
16.   The Government attaches particular importance to the financial infrastructure, primarily the
regulatory framework governing banking operations, including prudential supervision, the accounting and
audit framework, and the legal environment for financial transactions. The reinforcement of the process
of the supervision of banks and financial institutions and the improvement of accounting and audit
standards will, inter alia, facilitate the elimination of direct controls applicable to banks and the shift to
indirect monetary policy instruments. The first phase of the reforms stipulated in this connection will
accordingly give priority to the strengthening of the Financial Supervisory Commission (CCBEF), the
implementation of a regulatory framework governing the accounting profession, and the adoption of texts
governing financial institutions before end-1993.
17.   As regards the operation of CCBEF, the present situation which is characterized by shared
responsibilities between BCRM and CCBEF for the functions and staff involved in supervising the
banking system, will be modified in the context of the implementation of the strategic development plan
for BCRM. The main responsibility for the supervision of banks and financial institutions, as regards



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
on- and off-site supervision, will fall to CCBEF. The transfer of the banking supervision functions of
BCRM to CCBEF, the strengthening of the human resources of CCBEF by the assigmnent of a minimum
number of permanent staff, and the development of a plan of action for CCBEF, under the supervision
of a technical assistant-a seasoned inspector recruited from the outside before June 1993 for a three-year
period-will be completed by the end of 1993. The technical assistant will serve as an advisor to the
Governor of BCRM, as Chairman of CCBEF, and will be responsible for implementing a systematic
training program for CCBEF staff, including on-the-job training, and for reinforcing all aspects of on-
and off-site supervision. CCBEF will conduct a general on-site inspection of each commercial bank at
least annually. The first series of these on-site inspections will be completed by June 1994.
18.   Financial management will be reinforced by the establishment of audit and accounting standards
compatible with international standards. To ensure that these standards are applied and observed, the
accounting profession will be subjected to a regulatory framework developed by the profession itself and
submitted for the approval of the authorities before end-1993. This regulatory framework will ensure
that accounting experts uphold high professional ethics and standards in their endeavors, so that the
requirements of sound financial management can be met more effectively, primarily thorough the use of
the following measures:
-     Authorization of the title of accountant and the right to practice this profession;
-      Professional ethics to be observed, and disciplinary measures for failure to observe them;
-     Organization and operation of the Association of Accounts, including its goals, initiation
fees, financial conditions, etc.; and
-     The statutory component, including the production and auditing of annual financial
statements and the filing of such statements with the competent authorities, and the
deadlines to be met.
19.   In the general context of improving the legal framework governing business, more particular
attention will be focused on filling the gaps both in the basic legal texts and in the application texts related
to financial transactions. These gaps involve the following fields of business law: law applicable to
stocks and bonds; general law and procedures pertaining to guarantees, mortgages, and collection of
claims, as well as bankruptcy and liquidation. The actions to be taken to that end will be coordinated
with the other components of the legal framework to be improved (commercial code, law on competition,
and mining code), as discussed earlier with IDA. A program of specific activities will be developed
before end-1993, to be incorporated into phase two of the reforms stipulated in this program.
20.   The Government, BCRM, and the banking industry will examine the different options for making
the existing payments system  more effective.  The Government and IDA  will examine the
recommendations of a consultants' study on this subject, with a view to identifying a strategy before the
end of 1993.
III. Financial Markets
21.   The Government's goal is to promote the development of financial markets which can determine
interest rates through the interplay of supply and demand for financial resources. The immediate priority
for the Government in the development of such financial markets is to restore the proper operation of the
interbank market, which has for all intents and purposes been dormant since the two Government banks



Annx I
Page 6 of 6
began to experience problems. The privatization of these banks and the opening of the sector should
improve the operation of the interbank market.
22.   The Government intends to restore the regular issue of Treasury bills and concurrently reduce
its direct recourse to BCRM. This action to reinforce the operation of the money market will be
accompanied by a considerable effort to manage Government cash flow and to implement stricter
coordination between the Treasury and BCRM. This will result in improved liquidity forecasts made by
BCRM in the context of monetary policy management.
23.   The Government also believes that initiating the development of a nascent capital market in
Madagascar would be a decisive step in fostering the economy's market orientation. The private sector
should play a vital role in the design and organization of such a market. With a view to helping stimulate
the start-up of such a market with high grade marketable securities, the Government will accelerate as
much as possible its program to privatize financially viable public enterprises (for example, in the
insurance sector, banks, telecommunications, and transportation) and for which a portion of the
designated capital could be privatized through a public offering for sale, aimed, inter alia, at small-scale
owners and institutional investors. The Government will examine the ways and means to reach this goal
as quickly as possible in the context of phase two of the reforms under the comprehensive development
program for the financial sector.
Adopted by the Government
Antananarivo, March 3, 1993.






Annex 2
Pego 1 of i
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTI1UTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Morlery Survey. 1966-92
yAaIamy Franc billon: End of Pwiod)
1900        1967         !90           193           2K            1991          __
Est
Total Domestic Credit                            WI-2          .9            91         1.029.9       1,183.4       1 4691
Credit to te Government Net         377.0       365.0        342.7         32            251.5         292.3         412.3
Credi to th Private Saco en
State Enterprisee                 449.1       52            540.2         S7            778.4        891.1        1.056.8
Broad Money                          44t.3       5274          on                                                    L t2.S  1L0Q4 1,107.4
Currncy                             113.2       140.3         171.2         210.6         214.9         287.3        296.2
Dopoelt.                            336.1       367.1         46.7         6061           610.4         747.5        811.2
Extrnal Poition                      524        1.475,9      1.A5.t        i.77t.5       L2.01.8       222           2.55B0
Not Foreign LJabiWlee                VA.      la_-           La"a "1t                                    121)       450.2
Cntral Bank, Net                   49.6       (83.9)        (232.9)         .5)        (111.9)        103.1         562.6
Natonal Banks, Not                (21.7)      (53.7)         (64.3)        (93.3)       (660.)       (130.2)       (112.4)
Long-trrm foreign lIabile          79.        1.616.5       t9MZ           100.4 2A195               2,51          2.207.8
Other Items, Net                    14         A .  11511    (11437.     (1S1A1)        1.01IL       {Z475.        (2,296.3
Of which:
Valuation AdJubtnwnt             (-406)   -1.056.7)    (-1236.3)    (-1413.1)        (-143.90)     (-2060.0)     (-1817.3)
Accumulated BCM  kses            (-194.4)    (-306.9)      (-39s.5)     (-561.5)      (-566.9)      (-064.5)      (-839.9)
Memorandumn hIn
Convrsaton rate FMG/SDR              79.5       1362          1,091.0      2.05.2        2,027.2       2,511.1       2,621.5
Source: Central Bank of Mdedamw (IICRM)






Annex 3
Page 1 of 23
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities
Summary Description of First Year Tasks
A. Strengthening BCRM
Research Department Component
Technical Advisor to General Management to Strengthen the Research Department.
1.    The objectives of this consulting assignment are fourfold: (i) to improve the organizational
structure and work methods of the Research Department; (ii) to train the Research Department staff to
execute the action plan for the Research department and to ensure that the quality and level of expertise
will be sustained after the life of the Project; (iii) to improve the capacity of BCRM to formulate and
execute monetary policy by improving information generating capacities of the Research Department to
general management; (iv) to improve BCRM's capacity to keep the general public informed on economic,
monetary and financial issues through the regular publication of statistical, policy and research
information.
Accounting Component
Review of the Accounting Systems.
2.    The objectives of this consultancy are fourfold: (i) to review the existing accounting system within
BCRM; (ii) to propose a new system of accounting that will expedite the application of the new banking
accounting plan in January 1994; (iii) identification of a work program that ensures the smooth transition
from the existing accounting system to the newly designated system; (iv) to propose operation and support
procedures for the new accounting system.
Information Systems Component
Information Technologv Systems and Equipment Planning
3.    The overall objective of this study is to devise a method for procuring information technology
hardware that will facilitate the implementation of the Information Technology Plan once it is formulated.
The consultancy will have four components: (i) an evaluation of the current computer system defining
a number of strategies for its replacement; (ii) definition of a new information systems structure; (iii)
development of a procedure for the purchase of hardware and software; (iv) the framing of general
agreements with hardware and software suppliers.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 23
Information Systems - Security
4.     As part of BCRM's Information Technology Strategy in the specific context of improving the
overall security of information systems, this consultancy will: (i) review the existing security system; (ii)
provide assistance tot BCRM in defining a strategy for an information security system; (iii) provide
support for the implementation of the security system; (iv) draw up an information security system
manual for BCRM; (v) devise a crisis management strategy in the event of a breakdown of the computer
system.
Information Systems - Methods
5.     As part of the development of BCRM Information Technology Strategy standard information
system methods need to be developed. This consultancy will: (i) review the present information system
methods; (ii) provide technical assistance in producing a methods manual for information systems at the
BCRM; (iii) provide training to ensure that the new methods are correctly implemented by analysts and
programmers; (iv) devise an organization structure for the Data Processing Department of BCRM.
B. Improving the Audit and Accounting Framework
ImDroving the Accounting & Audit Regulatory Framework.
6.     As part of the development of a fully functioning professional body (Ordre des Experts
Comptables et Comptables Agres) this consultancy will provide assistance to: (i) establish a governing
council of the professional body (Conseil de l'Ordre); (ii) establish and implement appropriate "One time"
transitory measures for admission of members under the "grandfather" clauses contained in the regulatory
texts; (iii) establish the criteria and procedures for admitting to membership nationals and non-nationals
having acceptable alternative professional qualifications; (iv) draft and circulate to its members the
internal rules of procedures including all those covering ethical matters; (v) establish and circulate to
members the initial minimum acceptable professional standards and set up procedures for ensuring their
universal application, as well as their regular review and updating in the light of practical experience and
international trends within the profession; and (vi) establish an annual budget and adequate sources of
funding from within the membership to ensure the sustainability of the Ordre in Madagascar as a dynamic
body committed to maintaining the highest professional standards.
Provision of Bank Accounting and Audit Traininy
7.     This consultancy will support Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration
des Entreprises (INSCAE), in association with Centre National de Formation de la Profession Bancaire
(CNFPB), to develop and be able to dispense a broad-based training program specifically directed to
banking and professional personnel who already have a sound basic knowledge of accounting and
financial reporting to: (i) increase the participants knowledge and understanding of the risk applicable to
banking operations and of the corresponding prudential requirements and ratios necessary to ensure the
financial well being of a banking institution; (ii) expand the participants knowledge of the specificities
of banks and financial institutions accounting and of reporting financial information; (iii) provide a
detailed understanding of the requirements of the new bank chart of accounts; and (iv) develop a solid
understanding of the international accounting and auditing standards specifically applicable to banks and
financial institutions.
The detailed terms of reference for the above tasks are exhibited below:



Annex 3
Page 3 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (BCRM)
Draft Terms of Reference
Technical Advisor to General Management for the
Strengthening of the Research Department
1.    The Technical Advisor:
(i)     Will be accountable solely to General Management of BCRM;
(ii)     Will comply strictly with the statutes and internal regulations of BCRM;
(iii)    Will work under the general authority of the Governor and General Management of
BCRM, and will report to them on his or her activities at their request or at the Expert's
own initiative.
2.    The expert will be responsible for assisting in the development of the major focuses of a plan of
action for the Research Department with a view to reinforcing its analysis and forecasting capacities and
its ability to collect and organize statistics. The preliminary definition of the criteria and operating
methods for carrying out the various secondary projects and the implementation schedule is an integral
part of this action plan.
When this action plan is adopted by the General Management of the Central Bank, the Expert will
assist in:
(i)     improving the structural organization and the working methods of the Research
Department;
(ii)    training of the Research Department staff, and maintaining them at a sufficient level in
number and quality to carry out the terms of reference of the Research Department;
(iii)    training of staff responsible for examining and using statements, documents, and statistics
submitted by banks and financial institutions, ministries, other public agencies and other
bodies, including international organizations, with the support of other experts or
instructors who may be required for specific activities.
(iv)     preparation, for the Governor and General Management, of economic and financial
studies and recommendations pertaining to monetary policy and the procedures necessary
for their implementation.
The Expert will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the results obtained in secondary
projects and will write periodic progress reports.
The Expert will ensure that before he or she leaves, the Department has acquired know-how to
carry out its functions correctly and to handle any responsibilities which may not have been specifically
addressed.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 23
3.    To achieve these goals, depending on the Expert's availability, he or she will participate in all
meetings concerning monetary policy management and pertaining to the collection of economic,
monetary, and financial statistics, and will receive all information necessary to carry out his or her duties
and to allow the Expert to propose the improvements which he or she deems appropriate for the research
function of BCRM. In particular, the Expert will participate in the development of the Research
Department's annual working plan. For 1993 and 1994 this plan will include the writing of an annual
report of BCRM. The 1993 report will be published before the end of the second quarter of 1994, and
will contain a review and analysis, with comments, on the developments in the economic cycle and the
monetary situation.
4.     As regards the training of research staff, the Expert will supervise missions assigned to
insufficiently experienced staff and will supervise those led by more seasoned staff, possibly in the form
of individual activities at different stages of supervision. The Expert will ensure that the methods and
techniques proposed by him or herself or by other instructors have been sufficiently assimilated and the
staff involved are able to use them on their own and if applicable to convey their knowledge to their
colleagues. More generally, the Expert will take every opportunity (such as the discussion of the reports
which have been filed, organization of training sessions on difficult topics, etc.) in order to enhance the
knowledge of the Research Department staff and to improve their working methods, so as to make
ongoing training a spontaneous activity, thus guaranteeing that the goals of excellence are pursued after
the Expert leaves, to ensure that Research Department operates properly.
5.    The Expert's monitoring or direct supervision activities shall become progressively less directive,
yielding management to the Direct of the Research Department.
As regards analytical and forecasting work, the Expert's contribution will lead to the following
accomplishments during a one-year implementation phase:
-     Development of methodology and the implementation and analysis techniques;
-      Supervision of tasks.
The Research Department will subsequently directly undertake the tasks under the guidance of
the Expert.
6.     Candidates for this position must have a knowledge of economics (preferably a doctorate) and
approximately ten years of experience in a central bank and/or a ministry of finance or international
organization.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (BCRM)
Draft Terms of Reference
Technical Advisor Responsible for the Review
of the Accounting Systems
Context
The goal of FINDEP is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by making
the financial system function better. FINDEP sustains key financial institutions and markets in
Madagascar, in order to revive the public's confidence and thus encourage it to make savings available
for meeting the financial needs of the private sector. FINDEP is particularly designed to: (i) improve the
capacity of BCRM to perform its monetary and regulatory functions, and (ii) to improve the prudential
supervision environment by strengthening the Commission de Contr6le des Banques et Etablissements
Financiers [Bank and Financial Establishment Control Commission] (CCBEF) and by introducing new
rules with respect to accounting, audit and financial disclosure for banks.
One of the project's main components consists of implementing for BCRM a strategic
development plan (SDP) that will coordinate all the objectives and plans of action over a period of three
years. The project is designed to strengthen BCRM by developing especially its accounting, banking,
research and internal audit activities and its monetary and exchange operations, and by implementing an
information technology plan and a human resources development plan.
Purpose of the Assistance Requested for Accountine
The requested assistance is to focus on:
-     Proposal of a new bank accounting system;
-     Identification of the work and improvements necessary for the existing system to permit
the implementation of the new system;
-     General specification of an application and a configuration required to support the new
system.
Scope of the Project
The consultant and the project's working group will rely on previous plans and research carried
out:
-     The bank's strategic development plan;
-     The information technology strategy;
-     The information technology plan;
-     The strategic plan for the development of accounting.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 23
Description of Resources and Management
The consultant will assist the accounting subproject group, composed of BCRM accounting
supervisors and employees and led by a project chief.
The members of the working group will be assigned to that project from inception to completion.
The steering group of the subproject, composed of the representatives of the departments
concerned, will be responsible for follow-up and for evaluating their work. Coordination of the project
with others will be ensured by the Coordinator for Planning and Strategic Development.
Work Plan and Reports
The consultant will have to draw up a general work plan describing the methodology to be
followed and the results to be produced, and containing a schedule indicating when those results will be
available. They should include:
-     The principles of a modern bank accounting system, with a multi-currency component;
-     A description of steps taken to overhaul the existing system;
-     a coordination plan and a timetable showing the completion of those steps.
The selection will be based partly on the soundness of the work plan, which must be the very first
item carried out in the study.
Consultant's Oualifications
The consultant chosen for this work must meet the following criteria:
(a)    Be a senior bank accounting consultant with a record of at least 10 years' experience in
a banking establishment or an accounting service company (preferably a central bank);
(b)    Be thoroughly familiar with problems of accounting organization and automation;
(c)    Have a good knowledge of French;
(d)    Be capable of submitting complex solutions to those in charge and to obtain results
through training based on actual cases;
(e)    Be conversant with methodological techniques geared to this task and not requiring
substantial lead time;
(f)    Have solid experience in transmitting know-how;
(g)    Prove total contractual and financial independence with respect to the suppliers, in order
to preclude any conflict of interest between them and BCRM.



Annx 3
Page 7 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (BCRM)
Draft Terms of Reference
Information Technology Systems and Equipment Procuranent Planning
These terms of reference cover the assistance to be provided for BCRM by a senior consultant
in information technology for a three-month period starting approximately September 1, 1993. The three
months will be divided in two or three periods of two to six weeks, at three- or four-month intervals.
Context
1.    The goal of FINDEP is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by making
the financial system function better. FINDEP sustains key financial institutions and markets in
Madagascar, in order to revive the public's confidence and thus encourage it to make savings available
for meeting the financial needs of the private sector. FINDEP is particularly designed to: (i) improve the
capacity of the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM) to perform its monetary and regulatory functions,
and (ii) to improve the prudential supervision environment by strengthening the Commission de Controle
des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (Financial Supervisory Commission, CCBEF) and by
introducing new rules with respect to accounting, audit and financial disclosure for banks.
One of the project's main components consists of implementing for BCRM a strategic
development plan (SDP) that will coordinate all the objectives and plans of action over a period of three
years. The project is designed to strengthen BCRM by developing especially its accounting, banking,
research and internal audit activities and its monetary and exchange operations, and by implementing an
information technology plan and a human resources development plan.
2.    The bank's computer hardware is antiquated and needs to be replaced. Replacement will proceed
step by step, department by department, over the three years of the project. But in order to give everyone
identical equipment, it is necessary to list all the needs for equipment and to select one or more suppliers.
Contracts will have already been entered into with suppliers, and deliveries could be made as soon as the
various projects are sufficiently advanced.
Objectives
3.    The objective of this study will be to devise a method for procuring the hardware needed to
implement the information technology plan. The study includes:
(a)    An evaluation of the current situation as regards computer equipment and the possible
approaches to its replacement;
(b)    Recommendations based on the definition of the system's architecture;
(c)    Assistance for the purchase of hardware and software; and
(d)    The framing of general agreements with hardware and software suppliers.



Arex 3
Page 8 of 23
Scope of the Project
4.    The consultant and the project's working group will rely on previous works carried out in
conjunction with the FINDEP appraisal mission or on other occasions:
-     The strategic development plan;
-     The appraisal report;
-     The information technology strategy;
-     The information technology plan.
5.    The scope of the project will therefore encompass:
(a)    Evaluation of present and future equipment needs, bearing in mind the condition of the
current equipment and its maintenance;
(b)    Calculation of the total cost of the necessary equipment;
(c)    Delivery planning; and
(d)    Calling for bids and assisting in the selection of suppliers.
6.    The equipment procurement project will consist of the fbllowing components, to be submitted to
BCRM project steering committee for its approval:
(a)    Recommendations on the presentation of the maintenance problem and the preparation
of a replacement plan;
(b)    A detailed plan and a timetable for hardware and software purchases. This plan must be
updated and adjusted to reflect changing estimate of needs in the course of the projects.
(c)    Call for bids for equipment procurement, in accordance with the World Bank's bidding
and procurement procedures; and
(d)    A review of bids from hardware and software suppliers.
Description of resources and manaeement
7.    The consultant will assist in equipment procurement. A working group composed of competent
persons from BCRM will participate in this task. This working group will be chaired by the Coordinator
of Planning and Strategic Development of BCRM.
The members of the working group will be assigned to this project from inception to completion, on a
part-time basis.
8.    BCRM steering committee will be responsible for supervising and evaluating their work. This
committee will be composed of BCRM executives as well as supervisors of the departments concerned,
charged with validating the principal decisions concerning BCRM information technology system, and
in particular with directing and monitoring task assignment.
Work Plan and Reports
9.    The consultant will have to draw up a general work plan describing the methodology to be
followed and the results to be produced, and containing a schedule indicating when those results will be



Annex 3
Page 9 of 23
available. The selection will be based partly on the soundness of the work plan, which must be the very
first item worked out in the study.
Consultant's qualifications
10.   The consultant chosen for this work must meet the following criteria:
(a)    Be a senior information technology consultant with a record of at least 10 years'
experience as the person in charge of information technology and purchasing, (preferably
in a financial institution);
(b)    Be thoroughly familiar with the handling of problems relating to information technology
and equipment purchasing;
(c)    Have a good knowledge of French;
(d)    Be capable of submitting complex solutions to those in charge and to obtain results
through training based on actual cases;
(e)    Be conversant with methodological techniques geared to this task and not requiring
substantial lead time;
(f)    Have solid experience in transmitting know-how;
(g)    Prove total contractual and financial independence with respect to the suppliers, in order
to preclude any conflict of interest between them and BCRM.



Annex 
Page 10 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (BCRM)
Draft Terms of Reference
Information Technology Systems - Security
These terms of reference cover the assistance to be provided for BCRM by a senior consultant
in information technology for a three-month period starting approximately July 1, 1993. The three months
will be divided in three periods of two to five weeks each, at two- or three- month intervals.
Context
1.    The goal of FINDEP is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by improving
the operating conditions of the financial sector). FINDEP supports key financial institutions and markets
in Madagascar, in order to mobilize the public's confidence and thus encourage it to make savings to
meet the financial needs of the private sector. FINDEP is particularly designed to: (i) improve the
capacity of the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM) to perform its monetary and regulatory functions,
and (ii) to improve the prudential supervision environment by strengthening the Commission de ContrOle
des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (Financial Supervisory Commission, CCBEF) and by
introducing new standards with respect to accounting, audit and financial disclosure for banks.
One of the project's main components consists of implementing a Strategic Development Plan
(SDP) for BCRM that will coordinate all the objectives and action plans over a period of three years. The
project is designed to strengthen BCRM by developing its accounting, banking, research and internal audit
activities in particular, as well as its monetary and exchange operations, and by implementing an
information technology plan and a human resources development plan.
2.    Information technology will be an integral part of every BCRM activity. It will back up the
decision-making process and facilitate usual business activities. It is necessary to institute security rules
which will cover all BCRM activities, provide absolute protection against non-authorized access to
BCRM data, and highly sensitive information. Any BCRM employee who carries out computer work
will be responsible for the security and secrecy of these operations. Security will be an integral part of
the project work. It will be necessary to develop a manual that defines information system security.
Go9al
3.    The goal of this study is to develop and implement a strategy for information technology security.
This study includes:
(a)  assistance in the development and implementation of a strategy for information technology
security; and
(b)  training in the field of information technology security.
Goals of the Project
4.    The consultant and the project working group will base their research on the work done during
the FINDEP appraisal mission and will use as required the following documentation:
The Strategic Development Plan
The Staff Appraisal Report
The Information Technology Strategy



Annex 3
Page 11 of 23
The Information Technology Plan.
5.    The goals of the project will, therefore, be the following:
(a)  the assessment of the security practices presently used in the field of information technology;
(b)  an assistance in the preparation of security strategy in the field of information technology;
(c)  the implementation of the security strategy to be used in the field of information technology;
(d)  the development of an information technology security manual;
(e)  and the development of a model for crisis management.
outDUtS
The Informatics Security Project will include the following outputs, which will be submitted for
approval to the Information Technology Committee of BCRM:
(a)  an information technology strategy, developed in cooperation with BCRM;
(b)  a security manual; and
(c)  a model for crisis management.
Resource Description
7.    The consultant will provide assistance in the implementation of a security strategy. A working
group of competent BCRM staff, which will be headed by the Director of the Planning and Strategic
Development Department of BCRM, will participate in this task. They will be assigned to this project
for the whole duration of the project on a part-time basis.
S.     BCRM Review Committee (Comite de Pilotage) will supervise and endorse the work of the
working group. The committee will include members from BCRM management and managers from the
different departments involved. More specifically, it will monitor and manage the distribution of the
various tasks. It will also approve the main decisions related to BCRM Information Technology Plan.
Workini Plan and Re=orts
9.    The consultant will establish a general working plan, which will indicate the methodology that
he plans to use and the nature and time framework of the outputs. The selection of the consultant will
be partially made on the soundness of the working plan which should first be developed in the study.
Oualifications of the Consultant
10.   The consultant will have to meet the following criteria:
(a)  Must be a senior consultant in Information Technology Science with at least ten years of
experience in developing Information Technology Systems, if possible in a financial institution;
(b) Must be completely familiar with information technology security issues;
(c)  Must have a thorough knowledge of French;



Annex 3
Page 12 of 23
(d)  be qualified to present complex issues to managers and to obtain results through a training based
on concrete cases;
(e)  to be in possession of methodologies readily adapted for this type of work;
(f)  to have experience in transmitting the required know-how.



Annex-3
Page 13 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (BCRM)
Draft Terms of Reference
Information Technology Systems - Methods
These terms of reference cover the assistance to be provided for BCRM by a senior consultant
in information technology for a three-month period starting approximately June 1, 1993. The three
months will be divided in three periods of two to five weeks each, at two- or three- month intervals.
Context
1.    The goal of FINDEP is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors by improving
the operating conditions of the financial sector). FINDEP supports key financial institutions and markets
in Madagascar, in order to mobilize the public's confidence and thus encourage it to make savings to
meet the financial needs of the private sector. FINDEP is particularly designed to: (i) improve the
capacity of the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM) to perform its monetary and regulatory functions,
and (ii) to improve the prudential supervision environment by strengthening the Commission de Controle
des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (Financial Supervisory Commission, CCBEF) and by
introducing new standards with respect to accounting, audit and financial disclosure for banks.
One of the project's main components consists of implementing a Strategic Development Plan
(SDP) for BCRM that will coordinate all the objectives and action plans over a period of three years. The
project is designed to strengthen BCRM by developing its accounting, banking, research and internal audit
activities in particular, as well as its monetary and exchange operations, and by implementing an
information technology plan and a human resources development plan.
2.    It is of the utmost importance that all the phases of a project be covered by a uniform
methodology and that modern information technology techniques be introduced. A strict discipline in this
respect will make it possible for management to monitor and control project development. It will also lead
to a unified conceptualization of project work and to the awareness of systematic and quality methods and
techniques which will be detailed in a methodology manual.
Purpose of the study
3.    The purpose of this study is to define and introduce a methodology to develop an information
technology strategy and the future administrative structure of the Information Technology Department.
This study will include:
(a)  the definition and the introduction of an information technology strategy and a methodology
manual;
(b)  the assessment of the administrative structure of the Information Technology Departnent.
Goals of the Project
4.    The consultant and the project working group will base their research on the work done during
the FINDEP appraisal mission and will use the following documentation as and when required:
The Strategic Development Plan
The Staff Appraisal Report
The Information Technology Strategy



Annex 3
Page 14 of 23
The Information Technology Plan.
5.    The goals of the project will, therefore, be the following:
(a) an assessment of development methods presently used;
(b)  an assistance in the preparation of a development manual;
(c)  training for BCRM analysts and programming staff, and
(d)  an assessment of the administrative structure of the Information Technology Department.
Outr)uts
The Informatics Security Project will include the following outputs, which will have to be
submitted for approval to BCRM Information Technology Committee:
(a)  a methodology manual;
(b)  training for the above;
(c)  suggestions for the future administrative structure of the Information Technology Department.
Resource Description
7.    The consultant will assist in the implementation of information technology methods. A working
group of competent BCRM staff, which will be headed by the Coordinator for Planning and Strategic
Development Departnent of BCRM, will participate in this task. They will be assigned to this project
for the whole duration of the project on a part-time basis.
8.     BCRM Review Committee (Comitd de Pilotage) will supervise and endorse the work of the
working group. This committee will include members from BCRM management and managers from the
different departments involved. More specifically, it will monitor and manage the distribution of the
various tasks. It will also approve the main decisions related to BCRM Information Technology Plan.
Working Plan and Reports
9.    The consultant will establish a general working plan, which will indicate the methodology that
he plans to use and the nature and time framework of the outputs. The selection of the consultant will
be partially made on the soundness of the working plan which should first be developed in the study.
Oualifications of the Consultant
10.   The consultant will have to meet the following criteria:
(a) must be a senior consultant in Information Technology with at least ten years of experience in
developing Information Technology Systems, if possible in a financial institution;
(b) must be completely familiar with information technology issues;
(c)  must have a thorough knowledge of French;



Annex 3
Page 15 of 23
(d)  be qualified to present complex issues to managers and to obtain results through a training based
on concrete cases;
(e)  to have in his possession methodologies readily adapted for this type of work;
(f)  to have experience in transmitting the required know-how.



Annex 3
Page 16 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Draft Terms of Reference
to Improve the Accounting and Audit Regulatory Framework
These Terms of Reference cover assistance to be provided to the Ministry of Finance to develop the
above training capacities.
Backyzround
1.    The accounting, auditing and financial disclosure requirements and practices of a country are
important for creditors, shareholders and potential investors. The main weaknesses in this area in
Madagascar, have historically been the obsolescence of the accounting framework set by law and the poor
quality and availability of records and information on companies generally. The Project's objective is
to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors of the country's economy by improving the
functioning of the financial system. The Project supports key financial institutions and financial markets
in Madagascar to enhance public trust therein, thereby enabling them to mobilize savings to meet the
investment financing needs of the private sector.
2.     An important element of the overall Project will be to provide assistance: (i) in implementing the
process of reorganizing and strengthening the accounting profession, including restructuring the Ordre
des Experts Comptables et Financiers et comptables Agrees (Ordre), following the recent adoption of
revised regulatory texts; and (ii) putting in place an appropriate organization and infrastructure in order
that the Conseil Superieur de la Comptabilite (CSC) - the regulatory body responsible for overseeing
and/or approving the application of, and modifications to, national accounting standards - can undertake
its responsibilities with regard to ensuring the comprehensive application throughout the country of the
General Chart of Accounts (currently the Plan Comptable General Malgache of 1987 - PCGM-87) and
reviewing and improving national accounting standards generally. In accordance with Article 2.2 of the
Decree creating the CSC (Decret No. 89-161), this body is also required to give its prior approval to all
rules, instructions or recommendations of an accounting nature, proposed by any other national entity,
public or private. Any proposed sectoral chart of accounts, such as the new chart of accounts for banks
and financial institutions (Nouveau Plan Comptable Bancaire - NPCB) being submitted by the
Commission de ContrOle des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (CCBEF), should, therefore, also
receive prior approval from the CSC. With this in mind, close links will need to be established between
the CSC and the CCBEF in order that this approval process can be carried out with a minimum of delay.
In fact, the CSC would be expected to assume the ongoing responsibility, in close association with the
CCBEF, of reviewing and updating the NPCB to ensure that, as far as possible, it adheres to existing and
future international accounting standards applicable to banks and financial institutions.
Objectives
3.    The objectives of this consultancy are twofold. Firstly, it is expected that, at the conclusion of
the assignment, there will be a fully functioning professional body (Ordre des Experts Comptables et
Comptables Agres) in Madagascar which will have: (i) established its own governing council (Conseil
de l'Ordre); (ii) established and implemented appropriate 'One time" transitory measures for admission
of members under the 'grandfather' clauses contained in the regulatory texts; (iii) established the criteria
and procedures for admitting to membership nationals and non-nationals having acceptable alternative
professional qualifications; (iv) drafted and circulated to its members the internal rules of procedures for
ensuring their universal application, as well as their regular review and updating in the light of practical
experience and international trends within the profession; and (v) established an annual budget and
_ -   - - - - -



Annex 3
Page 17 of 23
adequate sources of funding from within the membership to ensure the sustainability of the Ordre in
Madagascar as a dynamic body committed to maintaining the highest professional standards.
4.    In parallel with the first objective, at the end of the period of this consultancy, the CSC will have
become an effective body, committed to ensuring the widest application of the PCGM-87 throughout the
country. An organizational structure, together with access to appropriate ongoing funding sources, will
be in place to enable the CSC to: (i) pursue its responsibilities for monitoring the application of the
PCGM-87 and the use to be made of the financial data which can be extracted from accounts presented
in accordance therewith; (ii) periodically make recommendations for changes or improvements in the light
of both practical experience and the evolution of international accounting standards generally; and (iii)
update the implementation guidelines (Guide Annote) to take account of such changes or improvements.
Appropriate links with the CCBEF will also be in place to facilitate monitoring the implementation of the
NPCB and approve proposals for its improvement, as circumstances dictate.
Timing
5.    The Consultant will be expected to be in Madagascar by early 1994 and immediately establish
contact with the person(s) designated by the Executing Agency as being directly responsible for
coordinating this part of the Project. As the person principally involved in carrying out the tasks
associated with this consultancy, the Consultant will report directly to the coordinator.
Additional Resources
6.    A key factor for the success of this consultancy will be the very wide and active involvement
expected of members of the profession, particularly the President and existing members of the Ordre and
those other professionals who are in the major practicing firms. Given the importance of their input, the
Project will support the cost of up to 36 staff-months of local short term consultancy, to be drawn form
a broad base of professionals in the practicing firms, to assist the Consultant in carrying out certain
specific tasks and agreeing the terms of reference for the short term consultancies with the Executing
Agency. The Consultant will also be expected to encourage the active involvement of representatives of
the: Ministry of Finance (probably form the Direction G6nerale de la Coordination Financiere); Institut
National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration des Entreprises (INSCAE); Commission de
Controle des Banques et Etablissements Financiers (CCBEF); and the primary banking sector. In
addition, the Project will support the cost of a full time secretary for up to 24 months, as well as the
necessary office furniture, equipment and professional and technical literature up to a total value of USS
35,000. The Executing Agency will provide appropriate office space for the Consultant and the
secretary, including a separate telephone line. Furthermore, it will provide resources to meet the cost
of document reproduction and diffusion, office supplies and all other incidental office expenses.
Work Plan
7.    As part of this proposal, the Consultant shall define a general work plan for each of the two
components of the assignment, indicating the anticipated approach to carrying out the work and the
provisional timetable for its execution. In preparing the work plan, the Consultant will be expected to
make use of the information gathered during the appraisal mission and copies of the following documents
should be obtained and studied by the Consultant, prior to making the submission:
-     The Staff Appraisal Report;
-     The Report 'Strengthening the Banking Environment and the framework for Accounting
and Auditing in Madagascar';
-     The Plan Comptable General Malgache - 1987 and the accompanying Guide Annote;
-      (details of the relevant Ordonnances, Arrkt&s, Decrets etc. relating to the Ordre and the
exams and admission details, to be added once they have been received by (WB);



Annex 3
Page 18 of 23
-     Decret No. 89-161 creating the CSC;
-     Ordonnance No. 88-005 - the Banking Act;
-     Companies Act of 24 July 1867, as amended;
-     International Accounting Standards as released by the International Accounting Standards
Committee (IASC);
-     International Standards on Auditing as issued by the International Auditing Practices
Committee.
Selection of the Consultant will be made partly on the soundness of the work plan, which should be
refined as the first task upon arrival in Madagascar and agreed with the Executing Agency.
Outputs
8.    The assignment will result in a number deliverables which need to be presented to and approved
as follows:
(a)    By the Executing Agency (copied to the World Bank)
(i)    3-monthly progress reports;
(ii)    An execution report at the end of the first 12-month period and the program of
work for the following 12 months;
(iii)   An end-of assigmment report setting out what has been achieved and what
remains to be done to ensure the continued activities of both the Ordre and the
CSC.
(b)    by the Conseil de l'Ordre
(i)    All items identified within the latest regulatory texts as being with in its purview
(it is to be noted that these items also require approval/endorsement by various
government bodies as identified in the texts); of particular importance are: the
inernal regulations (Reglement Intdrieur), the auditing standards (bearing in mind
the importance the World Bank places on the adherence to International Standards
on Auditing) and the disciplinary process;
(ii)   An initial membership list for publication in the Official journal (i.e. after the
admission of new members following application of the 'grandfather' clauses);
(iii)   An annual budget and recommendation for funding (e.g. subscription levels).
(c)    By the Consei de Ia CoinptabiHtd
(i)    The organizational structure of the secretariat;
(ii)   A plan for ensuring general application and regular updating of the PCGM-87
and the Guide Annote throughout Madagascar;
(iii) Proposals for the rational use of information available from the accounts in such
areas as the production of national and sectoral economic statistics;
(iv)   The process of consultation between CSC and the CCBEF on all accounting
matten relating to banks and financial institutions, including the review and
approval of the relating to banks and financial institutions, including the review
and approval of the NPCB and related Guide Annote and any subsequent
modifications thereto;
(v)    The process of consultation between CSC and both the Ordre and those
educational institutions which are designated as responsible for providing the
requisite technical tuition in accounting and other related subjects up to admission
to membership of the Ordre.
(Me foregoing list is indicative and will need to be refined in the light of both the official texts relating
to the profession and the evolution of the work).



Annex
Page 19 of 23
Rerts
9.    Through the assignment, the Consultant will meet regularly with the Executing Agency and
submit a report on progress being made, problems encountered and the proposed solutions. The timing
and frequency of such meetings will be agreed upon with the Executing Agency but should normally be
at a minimum of three monthly intervals. At the end of the first 12 months a general report of
achievements will be submitted together with the program of work for the remaining 12 months to
completion. At completion, the Consultant will submit a full implementation report, together with a
program for the ongoing activities of both the Ordre and the CSC, including resource needs, subscription
levels and other funding sources. Copies of all such reports will be sent to the World Bank.
Oualifications of the Consultant
10.   The Consultant selected for this assignment will be a qualified accountant with at least 10 years
practical experience in the profession, a significant part of which will have been accumulated in
developing countries, preferably Africa. (S) he will have: a sound knowledge of the workings of an
established professional accounting body; a good understanding of the French accounting profession; an
intimate knowledge of both International Accounting Standards and International Standards on Auditing;
a sound knowledge of French accounting practices; and a proven ability to communicate clearly and
concisely both orally and in writing. In addition, the Consultant will be fluent in both written and spoken
French and will be able to demonstrate a clear ability to organize and oversee the services to be provided
by the short term consultants drawn from amongst the local profession and other bodies, in order to
ensure their sustained commitment to achieving the objectives of the assignment.
Administrative Details of the Assignment
11.   The project financing provides for a family saloon car to be purchased for use by the Consultant
throughout the period of the assignment. all other personal logistic arrangements for the implementation
of this contract, both prior to arriving and throughout the Consultant's stay in Madagascar, are, however,
the responsibility of the latter.



Annex 3
Page 20 of 23
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Draft Terms of Reference for the Provision
of Bank Accounting and Audit Training
These Terms of Reference cover assistance to be provided through the Ministry of Finance (the Executing
Agency) to the Institute National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration des Entreprises -
INSCAE (the Implementing Agency) in association with the Centre National de Formation de la
Profession Bancaire - CNFPB.
Background
12.   The Project's overall objective is to facilitate investment and growth in the productive sectors of
the country's economy by improving the functioning of the financial system. The project supports key
financial institutions and financial markets in Madagascar to enhance public trust therein, thereby enabling
them to mobilize savings to meet the investment financing needs of the private sector. Specifically, the
project aims at: (i) improving the Central Bank's (BCRM) ability to formulate and conduct monetary
policy; (ii) improving the prudential supervision within the banking sector by strengthening the
Commission de Controle des Banques et Etablissement Financiers (CCBEF); and (iii) enforcing the
application of both auditing standards and standards of accounting and disclosure, which reflect
international norms.
13.   The quality of banks' and financial institutions' accounting and financial disclosure within a
country are important for management, shareholders, the supervisory authority and potential investors
alike. The main weaknesses in this area in Madagascar have historically been the obsolescence of the
accounting framework set by law, the poor quality and availability of records and information on banks
and financial institutions generally and a deficiency in their prudential supervision. In the light of the
perceived need to strengthen the banking environment, an important element of the overall project, and
continued in item (iii) above, will be to provide assistance in developing a training program, specifically
directed to banking and other professional personnel who already have a sound basic understanding of
accounting and financial reporting. The program will be directed to: (i) increasing participants'
knowledge and understanding of risk as applicable to banking operations and of the corresponding
prudential requirements and ratios necessary to ensure the financial well-being of a banking institution;
(ii) expanding their knowledge of the specificities of banks' and financial institutions' accounting and of
reporting financial information; (iii) providing a detailed understanding of the requirements of the new
bank chart of accounts (Nouveau Plan Comptable Bancaire - NPCB); and (iv) developing a solid
understanding of the international accounting and auditing standards specifically applicable to banks and
financial institutions.
14.   INSCAE was set up originally within the context of an IDA-financed project to establish the
legislative and training requirements for the accounting profession in Madagascar. Its ongoing activities
and development are currently being supported under the Accounting and Management Training Project
(Cr. 1661-MAG) and which provides training to students up to accounting technician level only.
15.   With effect from February 1, 1991, the primary banking sector in Madagascar, together with the
Central Bank, formally set up its own training establishment called the Centre National de Formation de
la Profession Bancaire (CNFPB). Since that time, CNFPB has developed and dispensed part time training
courses (including correspondence courses for participants living and working outside Antananarivo) to
banking personnel from basic clerical (brevet d'execution) up to first level supervisor (brevet de maltrise).
(Courses are only delivered during the standard academic year). In order to achieve this, CNFPB



Annex 3
Page 21 of 23
received some funding from the European Development Fund (EDF) and which was used to fit out and
furnish the offices of the secretariat and provide a certain amount of training equipment and basic
technical documentation.
Objectives
16.   It is expected that at the conclusion of this consultancy, INSCAE, in association with CNFPB,
will have developed and be able to dispense a broad-based training program, addressing the specific areas
set forth above, to personnel in both the primary banking sector and the Central Bank, as well as to those
responsible for the regulatory supervision and external audit of banks. Given that a substantial proportion
of those expected to participate in such a training program will most likely be based in Antananarivo.
Initially, the course will be part time and structured for oral delivery, with accompanying detailed
documentation for conservation by participants. Should it be deemed appropriate to extend access to the
course to participants living and working outside Antananarivo, a version by correspondence could be
developed subsequently. Such an action is not part of the present assignment. In addition to the
foregoing, a process of regular review and updating of the course content will be in place by the end of
the period of the consultancy. This should ensure that new initiatives and improvements in banking
operations as well as the comments and suggestions provided by course participants and their employers,
are fully considered.
riming and Duration
17.   It is expected that the Consultant will spend a total of 6 staff-months on the assignment spread
over a period of 24 months. It is very important that a maximum amount of this time be spent in
Madagascar working with INSCAE and those professionals identified to participate in the development
and delivery of the training program. Furthermore, the Consultant will be expected to consult closely
with the primary banking sector, the Central Bank and the banking sector's regulatory authority or
Supervisory Commission (CCBEF); in identifying specific areas where staff understanding of banking
operations and accounting is particularly weak. Ideally, at least one third of the estimated time should
be allocated to initial development of the course, in order that it can be given a trial duiring the academic
year 1994/1995.  Thereafter, the Consultant will pay periodic visits to Madagascar to monitor
implementation. Such monitoring will include active participation in the course delivery and making such
modifications to the course content as may prove necessary. Such active participation by the Consultant
will include sessions with those responsible, in how to improve overall course delivery and monitor and
document participants' progress.
Additional Resources
18.   Working closely with INSCAE, the Consultant will be able to use the former's office promises
and other facilities as well as the secretarial support. The project funding provides some US$8,000 for
the acquisition of technical literature in support of the course.  All other expenses, including
telecommunications, document reproduction and the printing of course material for participants, will be
provided by INSCAE and recouped from the course fees.
Workplan
19.   As part of the proposal, the Consultant shall define a general workplan for the assignment,
indicating the anticipated approach to developing the course material, the contribution to be expected from
CNFPB, training the trainers and monitoring implementation, as well as the expected timetable for
execution. In preparing the workplan, the Consultant will be expected to obtain and study copies of the
following documents prior to submitting proposals:



Annex 3
Page 22 of 23
-     The Staff Appraisal Report
-     The Report 'Helping to Strengthen the Banking Environment and Improving the
Framework for Accounting and Auditing in the Republic of Madagascar"
-     The Nouveau Plan Comptable Bancaire
-     Ordonnance No. 88-005 - the Banking Act
-     Copies of recent published accounts of banks
-     Existing INSCAE and CNFPB banking course material
-     International Accounting Standards, as released by the International Accounting Standards
Committee (IASC)
-      'T-ternational Standards on Auditing, as released by the International Auditing Practices
(.ommittee.
Selection of the Consultant will be made partly on the soundness of the workplan, which should be
refined as the first task upon arrival in Madagascar, and agreed with the Executing Agency and the
CNFPB.
Outputs
20.   The assignment will result in the following deliverables, all of which must be in the French
language:
(i)    A program of some 30 four-hour courses (one for each week of the academic year) for
oral delivery, together with detailed course notes for retention by the participants; the
courses will include periodic test papers to evaluate participants' progress in each of the
subjects covered and the degree of overall competence achieved at the conclusion of the
program;
(ii)    A program of course familiarization for the training personnel;
(iii)   At the conclusion of the first year's program of course, an evaluation of its strengths and
weaknesses, together with proposals for any revisions to be incorporated in the
subsequent year's program;
(iv)   At the conclusion of the assignment, a report setting out what was achieved and outlining
the ongoing process to be in place for reviewing and updating the course program and
the related material.
Items (i) and (ii) will initially be produced in draft form for review with the Executing Agency and
INSCAE. They will then be finalized for introduction in time for the 1994/1995 academic year. If, after
discussion with the parties concerned, the Consultant deems that limiting the presentation of courses to
the period of the academic year is likely to prove detrimental to effective implementation of the training
program, an alternative timetable should be proposed for adoption.
Oualifications of the Consultant
21.   The Consultant selected for this assignment will have a recognized bakling qualification and at
least 10 year's practical banking experience, part of which will, probably, have been spent in a bank
inspection and/or internal audit department. Furthermore, (s)he will be fluent in both written and spoken
French and have significant experience in developing and delivering training courses on banking
operations, preferable in a French banking environment. A good understanding of international
accounting and auditing standards, particularly as they affect banks and financial institutions, will be a
key element in the Consultant's ability to develop a program of courses having the appropriate focus on
the primary areas of perceived weakness.



Annex 3
Page 23 of 23
Administrative Detalh of the Assiganment
22.   The Consultant will be fully responsible for all personal logistical arrangements for the
implementation of this assignment.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
MADAiASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BCRM INFORMATICS PROGRAM
1.    This annex to the Staff Appraisal Report of the Financial Institutions Development Technical
Assistance Project for Madagascar describes the informatics program of the BCRM component of the
Project.
Present Situation
2.    Despite resource constraints, poor supplies of spare parts, the lack of technical assistance, long
procurement lead times and limited training opportunities, BCRM has a relatively high quality computer
department, compared to that of other countries at a similar stage of development. Furthermore, among
the staff of BCRM there is a growing awareness of the usefulness of modern microcomputer technology,
and a wish to use this as a base for data processing. However, BCRM has an aging mainframe, for
which the supplier has discontinued maintenance. This constitutes a significant operational risk to BCRM
and consequently the replacement of the mainfrarne is a high priority, not only to ensure that existing
operations continue, but also to facilitate the future development of the Central Bank. Apart for the
mainframe, BCRM has about 15 microcomputers, of which about half were recently acquired.
Objectives
3.    To perform its role as a fully-fledged central bank, BCRM needs to substantially improve its
institutional capabilities during the next few years. Specifically, the bank needs to be strengthened
through improvements in the areas of accounting, internal audit, open market, treasury and research
operations.
4.    The overall objective of the informatics program, therefore, is to contribute to the development
of the above capabilities by improving BCRM administration and information systems. While computer
technology will and can be used for this purpose, the emphasis of the role of informatics will be placed
not on the technology, but on the institutional improvements that can be achieved through its judicious
use.
5.    Specifically, the following objectives will be pursued through the BCRM Informatics Program:
(a)   implement and finalize an Information Technology Strategy, in order to establish routines
for annual planning, to ensure the smooth running of the Information Technology Plan;
(b)   strengthen the management and improve the work methods of the Informatics Department
(DOI);
(c)   improve staff skills to use and manage informatics resources;



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
(d)   introduce new management techniques, work methods and modern equipment in a pilot
project; and
(e)   install the computer application systems needed by each BCRM department in support of
their day-to-day operations to support the decision making processes of the bank.
Design Strategy
6.    A basic principle of BCRM Informatics Program will be to pace and condition the program to
institutional readiness to absorb new technology and implement administrative and managerial changes.
This strategy recognizes that:
(i)   modern computer technology, while flexible and relatively inexpensive, requires orderly
and well informed management in order to yield expected benefits; and
(ii)   investments in informatics will only be successful if BCRM  improves first its
management and administrative practices, its informatics strategy and its staff skills.
7.    Consequently, to build up BCRM capacity to absorb technology inputs planned for a subsequent
phase, a preparatory phase (Phase 1) of the program has been designed to pursue the objectives 5 (a) to
5 (d) above. Completion of Phase 1 is a critical step in the Informatics Program. Further, technology
investments and activities planned for the subsequent phase can only be efficiently implemented if this
first phase is successful.
8.    Once the preparatory phase is completed, the second phase, the information systems
implementation phase, will start. This phase will be based on the Information Technology Plan (ITP),
which integrates all the informatics requirements of the different departments and functions of BCRM.
Implementation Activities
Phase 1 - Preparatory Phase
9.    Phase 1 is targeted to last 6-8 months, starting in the second quarter of 1993, and partially
financed under the Project's PPF. This phase ends with the completion of the Pilot project which
constitutes the replacement of the outdated mainframe for accounting and personnel systems. For
technical reasons, the pilot project must be completed in time for the start of the new fiscal year January
1, 1994, as this is the scheduled date for the implementation of the new accounting plan. In early 1994
the Information Technology Plan should be finalized, based on the action plans of the various departments
and functions and taking into account the experiences of the Pilot project. The objectives and expected
outputs of Phase 1 are outlined in Table I below.
10.   To achieve the objectives of Phase 1, the Project will provide the following resources:
(a)    Project Assistanc. Of the time allocated under 'Project Management Assistance', some
will be spent on the planning mechanisms and the implementation of the pilot system.
(b)    Security. 3 months of technical Assistance in the form of a senior information security
specialist to develop and implement a security strategy, as well as a security manual.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
(c)    Methods.  2.5 months of technical assistance in the form of a senior informatics
specialist to produce a systems development manual, and train staff in modern system
development methods.
(d)    Technology. 15 microcomputers and accessories, and 1 microcomputer server, or a
mini-computer used as server.
Table 1: Objectives and Outputs of Phase I
Objectives                              Outputs
1.    Create an effective mechanism for    1.1   Strategic planning organization in
planning and follow-up:                 place;
1.2    Annual planning procedure
implemented;
1.3   Training seminars.
2.    Formulate and implement a security  2.1    Secuity strategy;
strategy:                        2.2   Security manual;
2.3    Model for crisis management;
2.4    Training seminars.
3.    Implement modern systems          3.1   System Development Manual;
development methods:             32.   Training seminars.
4.    Implement the pilot system:       4.1   Implemented pilot system;
4.2    Review of strategy and plan;
4.3    Reduced risk of hardware failure.
Phase 2 - Information Systems Imniementation
11.   Once an adequate Information Technology Plan hu been developed, all further activities will
proceed under the guidance of that plan. As priorities are unknown at this stage, only a general outline
the type of assistance that can be given is attached below:
(a)    up to 6 months of technical assistance involving systems analysts/ programmers working
on the additions or modifications to selected software, and on the development of
information systems;
(b)   training as follows: (i) DOI management courses; (ii) personal computing courses for
select BCRM staff; (iii) microcomputer user support courses; (iv) courses for DOI staff
on new data base/programming languages; and (vi) special telecommunications courses;



Page 4 of 5
(c)   computers and their operating software as follows: (i) microcomputers and acceuories;
(ii) microcomputer servers or small mini-computers;
(b)   software licenses to ensure that BCRM owns the latest version of the microcomputer
software it uses, and that it gets access to proper documentation and technical support.
Implementation Guidelines
12.   The following guidelines should be observed during the project implementation:
(a)    Project resources need to be matched by adequate BCRM resources if the progrm is to
succeed. In particular, for every month of expatriate consultant time funded by he
project, approximately two months of staff time are needed. This counterpart afon Is
needed both to complete project activities and to obtain effective transfer of todnici
skills. While this is clearly within current BCRM staff capacity it will only be possible
through careful work planning;
(b)    Hardware, application software and technical usistance funds under the program should
be mutually fungible to accommodate the strategy and priorities decided upon during the
implementation of the Information Technology Strategy;
(c)    Training should be followed within two months by on-the-job application of the subjects
learned;
(d)    The functional characteristics and throughput requirements of computer hardware and
software needed should be defined during the preparation of the Infomation Technology
Plan, and submitted as the technical basis of standard bidding documents. Tho bidders
should be allowed to propose the technical sepecifications of the equipmont which would
meet these requirements. Care should be exercised in the bid evaluation methodology
to weigh heavily the quality and reliability of after-sale maintenance and technical support
service in Antananarivo;
(e)    Computer equipment should be scheduled for delivery only after utilization plans are
completed and application software is ready for use. Consequently, application software
should be developed in advance of equipment purchass using the computer(s) of DOI.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
13.   The following is an indicative guideline on the contracts in BCRM Informatics program during
phase 1:
Contract No.       Amount              Description
1.            $60,000       Training in Systems
Development Methods
2.            $60,000       Support in Hardware
Acquisition
3.            $60,000       Security
4.             125,000      Pilot systems micro-
computer equipments
5.            $150,000      Pilot system Application
software
14.   Overall direction of the BCRM  informatics program will be exercised by the Informatics
Committee already established in the BCRM. Senior informatics management experts will be contracted
to give 20 months of support during the project.
15.   A yearly informatics plan and budget will be prepared as part of the annual planning process, and
submitted for approval by the BCRM Informatics Committee and the World Bank.



Aknx 5
Page I d 3
MDAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTffUT1NS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Pro4ec Comb ej
(J5t To
LOCAL                 FOREIGN                TOTAL           GR TOT
t. 8Wa,g   eudnCR                YrI  Yr2   YrF         Yr1   Y2   YWS        Yr1   Yr2   YrS
A. Org. Sbucue
Cdg                                e       ~      ~      ~~~~~~~o so              so
TM"
&                                   @0                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 60
B. RAewch Dep
Con                                           200   206   216        200   206   216         624
Trbi                                          70    73    65         70    73    66         206
Su&1Ai                                                 270   261   261        270   261   261         52
C. CreM Dep.
Cmuw                                           20    62    66         20    02    65         147
Tral*v                                        20    02    66         20    62    65         147
S81WW                                                   40   125   180         40   125   130         296
D. Fmeig  Euslqo
Camuibiu                                       20    63    65         20    63    65         168
Trki                                          20    62    65         20    62    65         147
8166md                                                  40   146   130         40   146   130         315
E. EnD.MM
Camib'A                                        40    62    43         40    62    43         146
Trabg                                         30    21    22         30    21    22          72
81bkpigA                                                70    6      66        70    63    65         216
F. Chc. Nase & CA"i
-qul                                          150   273   170        150   273   170         593
C                              10    1 1       40   104    43         40   114    54         20
Treb*q                  10    10    11        10    31    32         20    42    43         105
8u1kod                           10   21    22         200   406   240        210   429   2W         *07



Ams. 2 013
LOCAL                   FOEN                    TOTAL            G TOT
G.Ammuduig V_i   VYR    W3                                  YI Vt Y      YVS        vYi   YV2   Yri
Cmus*i                    20    42                230    63    22         250   125    222
TrMi                     t0    10                 *0    02    22          90    73    22          154
8s*1                                as     a               SIG   1#6    43         346 tin        43         5"1
K __m A_M
Eq_s*O                                             20     1 1              20    1 1                I1
C __ANm                                            s0    42    11          00    42    11           132
Tu"V                      10    10      5         00    36    27          s0    47    32         1IS
L kVs 6
-q                                                700  1005   517         700  1005   517         2221
CmUm*                      50   104   105         270   S2    433         320   906   541          1797
Trab*                    35    20    22          100   104    54         135   130    76          941
SAWDOb6    in    I30                                      1076  1541  103        1155  2071  t11s          4356
J. Hm Rsum
Equownt                   20      5                                        20      5                 25
CanMu                     20      10              100    52    22         120    73    22          214
TM"V                     40    25    22           00    I      32        120   106    54         2a
&1blow                              6      46    32        136   14       54       2              T7         523
K. Pvs~  c   I  d
Caummdu                                           220   136    22         220   160    22           406
Tm_                                               S20    31    22         30    31    22           *4
&b.1                                                       256   1I3    64         250   13       s4 o52
TOTAL
Equlps                    20      5               870  1263    57         690  1294   667         2171
Ca"usib                   90   136   119         1290  1706   941        1370  1872  1060         4302
Tiihig                  105      a     so        520   567   416    S 25   650   476             1751
215   25    176        26    306   2044        266  3616  2223 m824



P.6.e 3 at 3
LCAL                   FOREIGN                TOTAL            GA TOT
*I   Yr2   WS          Yr1   vRi   vii        Yri   Y12   Yr3
2. SwemObmd. CCUEF
Eqm.w_                                          150    33    23        150    33    23         26
CAnM*iu                                          *0    62    22         s0    62    22         104
Tr*fg                   10    10               e0    62    05          70    73   0S          20S
&aAM                               le    le              290   16   103         no    06   I"            57
U.  pro   Urp.O Auift Aosm    Fmi    mea  u* 
Eqs*ww4                   5                      52                     57                      57
cadnum                   46    U      52         04   135    70        113   234   122         40
Trdi                                            46    42    43         4S    42    43        1i
1AADW                              as           a        la    177   114        21t   276   106          a"
4. Oqpr" t  kmftu             d _
Ca                                              am                     200                     20
1*ot                                                    2109                    2                       200
GRAND TOTAL b/
E*ulp_                   25      5             1072  1321   710       1007  1327   710        3134
C4An_m                  133   205   171        1625  190S  1093       176M  2100  1204        5136
Tmh*v                  115    94    59        152    671   525        743   764   564        2091
&AAlOW                           273   34   23=        325  36  2267           33    4200 2406        lamS
J hid.s phy I         mdl  d5% par umn. wn pb   ong ms d 4% p. arvuan hL US.
b/Aov  bbbu           onw w bim   hi Flfe.   Swwwsly    hib  pq.   due o rcumi.



PM I d I
F lMMS. SU1'ITUN  DEV!LO 1 -r  TECHNICAL A81S1ISTANCE PROJECT
Eomat Dhhsw..mwiPvI
Yaw             ~~~~~~~~ I~~awn)                                 A IInmwPo
FYM               .AuIinY          low                   07                       0.7                12%
FY35               .4              Is"                  0as                       1.6                25%
ANNOY       Ilsa                  1.0                      2.5                41%
FYN6              Ah4              two                                            3.5                geq%
AWNWY       llS                  0.6                       4.1                66%
FY7                bg              INS                   0.6                      4.7                75%
Awwwy      1IM7                  0.5                       5.2                13%
FY36               biV             lo7                   0.4                      5.6                gm%
imwwy           IN                   0.2                       5.6                94%
FY30              .hig             IN                    0.2                      6.1                16%
imwwv       iN                   0.1                       6.3               100%



MADAGASCAR                                                                                               Annex 7
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Key Project Compomemts
1. STRENGTHENING BCRM                                             1 9 93                                     1 9 9 4                                       1 9 9 5                           1 9 9 6
0    2    0    3    0    4[             1    0      2    0    3                       I 4    O    1    0    2    o    3    0    4    O    1    0    2
A. BCRM ORGANIZATION
Consulting
Advisory support to thc general management
B. RESEARCH FUNCTIONS
Consulting
Adviser to the general management                                                                                                                                                              -
Improve ptblished information
Improve data collection and clasification
Strengthen capa city to formulate monetary policy
Training
C. OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS
Consulting
Aastance to improve money market auction operations
Assitanuc to develop reerve requirements                                                     U                      U
As to improve the utilkation of information to perniit
better liquidity nmg
Training
D. FOREX OPERATIONS
Consulting
Active mgt of forex & supervision of intetbank marketU
Improwe forecasting and analsis of foreign currencies
Training
E. EXTERNAL DEBT MNGT.
Consulting
Improve forecastig and anablsis of cxternal debt
Improve planning in finaneing public debt                                    m        E
Training
1



STRENGHTENING BCRM              |            I 9 9 3            |1       4|t        S| 1 9 9 4
STRENGHTENINGBCRMI O Q  2       3   0 1 01.0-I                                                        2  0  3  O 1,41  010  2  0 ':O  410                                                   2
F. CIRC. OF BANKNOTES
Eq ipmcest
S9Z4l euip-t 
Conaltiag
FosmmN g a1baukne rsqukuineat
Iotc i note an coin mawem ut
1inroft HO and age" cnmmunaiom
Rem  of deqarhibaned on ccange doifi_
St lrat  rmemity indiamutioa d  otesand                                                             m:om:
Training
G. ACCOUNTING
Consulting
External audit
Evaluaion of the ct ingaccountinsg stem-
Axa. to introduc an impnmd accuntiw  rstem
Adapt dcrt of acootnm A eiointe an am manual
Au. to establish a modern azhMn sItm
Training
H. INTERNAL AUDIT
Equipment
A"dit equqinent
Consulting
Defintimon structure 0f the internal audit unit
Implemeiiation methods for intenal audit unit
Asa to develop an intnal audit wokplan for 1994
limpiementationof audit progpmm & procedures.
Develop tinin progms for staff
Triaiaig



STRENGHTENING BCRM                                                                                                                            I [  99S               |101
1. INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Equipment
Compute hdware and  ftwre -m
Consulting
Finaize & implemat the Inf. Tachnoly Stmtegy
Develop and impemeit an Inf. TechnokU Plan
Implemenation ofs trm devlopment method&
Implemitation of Secuity Strateg                               E         u -_
An in procuemient of hardware
AmL to design and impL the pilot inomfation stutem
Training
J. HUMAN RESOURCES
Equipmcnt
Tftin*  equipment
Consulting
Implement an imprmd psonnA policy
Reviw peasonnel reqmna & tining for re-deployL
Define amining modulca for oocuputional  m
Training
L- PROJECT MGNT ASSISTANCE
Consulting
Am to the poj  cordinautor odthe BCRM                                                                                                                                          -
Training
3



2. STRENGMENING  OCBEF                          |            I          3       |                   I      *  *           |                   I  9  9  51  9  9  *
2.0    2 E   1 2                                      2 1  031                             Q    2    0    3 0    4 O            1    0
Equipment
Compucr hard and  ftwre.                                                                         -  
Vehicuk to ficilitate on site inspection.
Consulting
Deveop taininD progqn for aff
Develop and impL the Info. Thhnol   Sategy                                     0
Dewep and Imp1ement Info. Tb onnkUy Pan
As in procurment of hardwae                                                                 
Training
3. IMIPROVING THE ACCOUNTING                                 1  9  9  3                             1  9  9  4                                1  9  9  s                     I  9  9  6
&AUDIT FRAMEWORK                                 Q    2    Q    3    Q    4    Q    1    Q    2    Q    3    Q    4    Q    1    Q    2    Q    3    Q    4    0    1    Q    2
Equipment
Compuer hard and software.
Consulting
Strengthening Auntg Regulamq Fa-work
Establishing Insitute of Chanered Accuntant
Training
Implemeitings NPCB
14. SUPPORTING PRIVATIZATION                                  1 9  9                                 1 1 9 9 4                                 1       9 9 5                   1 5 9 6
OF BANKS                                          Q    2    Q    3    Q    4    Q    1    Q    2    Q    3    Q    4    Q    1    Q    2    Q    I    Q    4    Q    1    Q    21
Consulting
hdoc hastance on valution audis A placing
Solid bar indicates concentrated asoistance (short- and long- term consulting services and procur-nnt of goods)
Shaded bar indicates non-conc-ntrated assistance (impleognting agency efforts vith occasional training
and ad hoc concultancies).
4



Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSTITUT'ONS DEVELOPMENT TECHICMAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Monitorable Actions Under the Project
1993
May 1993:           Adoption of new statutes for BCRM
June 1993:          Adoption of the new chart of accounts (NPCB) by CCBEF
in agreement with banks
July 1993:          Recruitment of external advisor for CCBEF
September 1993:     Completion of first external audit of BCRM by
independent auditors
September 1993:    Recruitment  of  external  advisor  for  Research
Department, BCRM
September 1993:     Recruitment of external consultants for the internal audit
and inspection Department of BCRM
October 1993:       Completion of annual work plans and budgets for
implementation of Strategic Development Plans for
BCRM and CCBEF in 1994
October 1993:       Creation of an independent internal audit unit in BCRM
and presentation of annual work program for 1994
December 1993:      Completion of all staff redeployment and recruitment and
other measures necessary to place primary responsibility
for all bank supervision functions in CCBEF
December 1993:      Recruitment of consultant and initiation of work for
strengthening accounting regulatory framework
124
January 1994:       Introduction of new uniform chart of accounts for banks
January 1994:       Publication by CCBEF of revised prudential supervisory
norms and ratios for commercial banks as required
February 1994:      Progress report by Ministry of Finance and BCRM on
completion of privatization of BTM and BFV



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
April 1994:         Initiation of study on  training  requirements for
accountants and auditors to enable conformity to
international standards in accounting and auditing of
commercial banks
June 1994:          Publication of first annual report of BCRM with audited
annual accounts
July 1994:          Completion of action plans for all departments of BCRM
in preparation for second phase of informatics program
and implementation of the human resources development
plan for the different departments of the bank
August 1994:        Completion of first round of annual on-site inspections
of commercial banks
September 1994:     Completion  of an information plan defining new
information systems for all BCRM departments and
CCBEF and streamlining data requests from all BCRM
departments and CCBEF to financial and other
institutions
October 1994:       Completion by BCRM and CCBEF of annual work plans
and  budgets  for  implementation  of  Strategic
Development Plans in 1995 and 1996
Other actions to be completed by end-1994:
......  Completion of human resource development action plan
for BCRM covering training program for 1994-96 and
identification of new occupational streams
Specification of membership criteria, preparation and
diffusion to members of both internal rules of
procedures, including ethical standards, and professional
standards by Ordre des Experts Comptables et
Comptables Agr6es
Preparation and initiation of a training program for
prepare accountants and auditors to ensure accounting
and audit practices in commercial banks in conformity
with internationally accepted standards
......  Completion of first phase of informatics program of
BCRM including the pilot project (new accounting
system)



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
*  Requirement that all firms auditing commercial banks be
approved by CCBEF for their qualification to undertaken
audits in accordance with international standards,
pending the adoption of acceptable national accounting
standards by the Ordre des Experts Comptables
June 1995:          Publication of audited annual accounts of all commercial
banks and BCRM presented in accordance with new
uniform chart of accounts
Other actions to be completed by end-1995:
......  Procurement and testing of equipment under BCRM
informatics program for priority departments and
applications
......  completion of first one-year program of basic training
for selected BCRM staff in different occupational
streams and training of all senior BCRM managers in at
least one general course in central banking and monetary
policy
Specification by the Conseil Superieur de la Comptabilite
of local Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
Completion of training of first batch of accountants and
auditors in international accounting and audit practices
for banks
Other actions to be completed by September 199C:
.....   Completion of the second phase of the BCRM
informatics program, including procurement of all
equipment



Annex 9
Page I of 5
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL INSnTuITONS DEVELAPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Sunrision Plan
1.    Project supervision will be carried out in accordance with the supervision plan presented in the
following three pages. The expected targets to monitor are presented in Annex 8. The supervision plan
also reflects the implementation timetable of key project components shown in Annex 7. A total of eight
missions are foreseen during 1994-96 in addition to the project launch and mid-term implementation
review missions. Bank staff supervision input is expected to be above average during the first fifteen
months of the project following effectiveness, until just after the mid-term implementation review is
completed.
2.    A mid-term implementation review is foreseen relatively early in the project to ensure that there
is proper co-ordination and synchronization between two project activities which cut across all
departments of BCRM - the informatics program and the human resources development plan - and the
action plans of individual BCRM departments. Finalization of the action plans of individual BCRM
departments and the related allocation of project funds among different departments is expected to be
agreed upon during mid-term review to enable the major parts of the infornatics program and human
resources development plan to take place during 1995 and 1996. The mid-term review will also be the
occasion to finalize the new organization charts for BCRM and CCBEF, detailing the new functional
responsibilities and staffing of various departments, based on the implementation of their strategic
development plans (SDPs) during the first year of the project.
3.    The implementation of the informatics program represents an especially novel and complex
undertaking for BCRM and CCBEF and will therefore merit special attention during all supervision
missions. The plan for the informatics program presented in Annex 4 will be followed but could be
modified during implementation as dictated by specific needs and capacities of BCRM and CCBEF. This
is to ensure that the switch from the existing mainframe system to a new information system occurs with
minimum disruption to existing data processing functions and that all user departments are adequately
trained before new information systems are installed.
4.    During supervision, there is expected to be close coordination with USAID and the Swiss
Government which are providing parallel financing and with the project management assistance being
financed by the Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Co-operation (BITS).
Representatives of these co-financiers are expected to participate in some or all of the supervision
missions as well as in the mid-term implementation review. A common project reporting format will be
used to monitor progress in all components of the project being financed by IDA and other donors.



Amex 9
Page 2 of 5
MADAGASCAR - Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE  KEY MISSION                         EXPECI SKILL  STAFF
DATES              OBJECTIVES AND                 REQUIREMENTS   WEEKS
l___________ ACTIVITES 
September 1993     Project launch mission: (a)   Task manager;          7
project launch workshop with    Accounting and
all key departments of BCRM   informatics
Project launch     and CCBEF and with Ministry   specialists
mission            of Finance and accounting
profession to comprehensively
review all project
implementation arrangements.
(b)Review progress in
informatics and human
resources components;
(c)Finalize implementation
manual; (d) Review
procurement of computer
hardware and software for pilot
project; (e) Review progress in
staff recruitment and
redeployment for BCRM
internal audit unit and CCBEF;
(f) Review evaluation of
existing BCRM accounting
system and progress in
implementing new chart of
accounts in BCRM and banks;
(g) Review progress in
preparation of action plans by
BCRM departments and
CCBEF; (h) Finalize TORs for
study on training requirements
of accountants and auditors



Page 3 of 5
MADAGASCAR - Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE    KEY MISSION                        EXPECTED SKILL   STAFF
DATES              OBJECTIVES AND                 REQUIREMENTS  WEEKS
ACTIVITIES
January 1994       Surision m        : (a)        Task manager;         7
Review introduction of new    Informatics and
chart of accounts in BCRM     accounting
1st supervision    and banks; (b) Review          specialists; Training
mission            completion of measures to      specialist
create internal audit unit and
completely transfer supervisory
functions to CCBEF; (c)
Review BCRM and CCBEF
annual work plans and budgets
for 1994; (d) Review progress
in preparation of first BCRM
annual report with audited
accounts; (e) Review progress
in developing BCRM training
modules for occupational
streams; (f) Review completion
of pilot informatics project and
replacement of mainframe
computer;
June 1994          Supervision mission: (a)       Task manager;         4
Review completed action plans   Accounting and
for all BCRM departments and   informatics
2nd supervision    CCBEF; (b) Review plans for   specialists; Training
mission            implementation of second       specialist
phase of informatics program
including hardware and
software procurement; (c)
Review implementation of
training programs; (d) Review
preparation of training program
for qualifying professionals in
international accounting and
audit practices for
banks/financial institutions



A=2
Pop 4 of S
MADAGASCAR - Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance Proje
Project Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE  KEY MISSION                           EXPECTED SKILL  STAFF
DATES               OBJECTIVES AND                 REQIRDEMENTS  WEEKS
ACTIVrrTES
September 1994      Mid-term revie: Overall        Task manager;          8
review of project with        Informatics
Government, BCRM, CCBEF,   specialists;
Mid-term            and donors including: (a)      Accounting and audit
implementation      Review strategic development    specialist
review              plans of BCRM and CCBEF
and progress in
implementation; (b) Review
and agreement on detailed
work plans and budgets for
1995 and 1996 to implement
remaining BCRM and CCBEF
informatics and human
resources plans; (c) Finalize
new organization chart for
BCRM based on accepted
action plans; (d) Review
computer hardware and
software procurement plans;
(e) Review of CCBEF first
annual program of on-site bank
inspections and revision of
supervisory ratios; (f) review
progress in determining
membership specifications for
Ordre des Experts Comptables
and in preparing rules of
procedure and auditing
standards; and (g) evaluate
completion of privatization of
BTM and BFV.
January 1995        SuDervision mission: (a)       Task manager;         4
Review progress of             informatics and
specification of Malagasy      aconting specialist
3rd supervision     Generally Accepted Accounting
mission             Practices; (b) Review progress
of BCRM and CCBEF training
programs; (c) Review progress
of computer hardware and
software procurement



Annex 2
Page 5 of S
MADAGASCAR - Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE  KEY MISSION                           EXPECTED SKILL  STAFF
DATES               OBJECTIVES AND                 REQUIREMENTS   WEEKS
ACTIVITIES
Rest of 1995        Two supervision missions       Task manager;         12
informatics and
4th and 5th                                        accounting specialists
supervision
missions
1996               Three supervision missions      Task manager;         15
informatics and
6th, 7th and 8th                                   accounting specialists
supervision
missions



Annex 1
Page I of 3
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
MADAGASCAR
i1NANCIAL INSrTUIONS DEVELOPMENT TECEICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE COORDINATOR
OF STRATEGIC PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
In pursuit of its key objectives of formulating and executing monetary policy in an economic
context, the Central Bank of the Malagasy Republic (BCRM) has decided to implement a strategic
development plan (SDP). The SDP is aimed at improving the BCRM's internal operation by strengthening
its organization and its human and material resources.
In this new approach of the BCRM, information technology takes on a more strategic character
and thus calls for a direct exercise of responsibility by management. The position of Coordinator of
Planning and Strategic Development is created accordingly. This position, whose responsibilities are
described below, is designed to make planning and strategic development a permanent function at the
BCRM.
Res2gnsibilities
1.    The coordinator, carrying at least the rank of director, will report to the management of BCRM
on all strategic matters concerning the bank's organization and the use of information technology.
In that connection he wIll have the following responsibilities:
-     At the request of management or on his own initiative, the formulation of new strategies
concerning organization and information technology, which wIll be submitted to and
discussed with the board of directors;
-     The finalization, implementation, ongoing development and maintenance of the
information technology strategy adopted by the bank's management;
-     Introduction into the various departments of the proceu whereby the annual development
of the information technology plan is to be carried out, coordination of those results from
departments, and submittal thereof to the board of directors;
-     Proposal of the budget allocated to development and information technology, and
monitoring of its implementation;
-     Regular monitoring of the implementation of the SDP and the information technology
plan, and submittal of the necessary modifications to the board of directors;



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
-     Supervision of the operation and adjustment of the activities carried out.
2.    Ia his role of coordinator of strategic matters, he will have to:
-     Take the initiative in fostering discussions at different levels on the efficacious use of
information technology;
-     Supervise and coordinate the BCRM's requests from financial institutions, ministries,
etc., in order to prevent duplication of effort outside and within BCRM in an expanded
framework of 'data management";
-     Facilitate dialogue between the users of information technology and the Direction de
l'Organisation et de l'Informatique (Organization and Information Technology Office);
-     Take part in negotiations with hardware and software providers;
=     Follow the technical evolution of information technology practices in Madagascar and
abroad.
3.    As pt of his responsibility for information technology security, the coordinator will ensure
ompliance with the bank's information technology strategy by taking appropriate steps as needed
to correct any departure from the security regulations.
ROLE IN THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRODIF)
1.    11T  Sneral responsibilities described above will go hand-in-band with specific responsibilities
bt coordinating the implementation of PRODIF, which is designed to further the implementation
of 1k SDP;
*     Ensure consistency among all the subprojects financed by PRODIF;
-     Prepare the project progress reports to IDA;
-     Take part in all IDA follow-up or supervision missions;
-     Ensure compliance with the rules concerning contracts;
-     Ensure the financial monitoring of the project;
*     Act as BCRM's main contact with external technical assistance sources in connection with
project management.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
PROFILE
The importance of this position makes it necessary for the applicant to meet the following
minimum criteria:
At least ten years of experience as a director in the financial sector in Madagascar,
preferably in BCRM;
At least five years of experience in project management;
Ability to reconcile the needs of the different information technology users and the
technical responsibilities of the Direction de l'Organisation et de l'Informatique, based
on knowledge of (i) the core functions of a bank or a financial establishment, preferably
BCRM, and (ii) the technical constraints of information technology;
Ability to present complex matters to management and obtain concrete results pertaining
to project coordination and execution;
Ability to bring a comprehensive view of organizational and information technology
problems to bear on BCRM's overall operation;
Ability to ensure close collaboration among the various BCRM departments in connection
with the planning of information technology projects.






IBRD 20035R
12-                                                                                     [ 1'                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12',
'Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                           4-
______   Paved roads
R'oi.is gouoion;ee
AllI.w.arr road,
RAOes acce- /es, n taute saion                                               NOSY BE  'AOAb obr
Non permanent rood.                                                            H 11  IVi          '   4o-mln
.I   Routesosods!i'es
Che.n- do  fb
Fleuves etr i-4,es 
,Sraports                                                                     'Sor'b o
Notional capitol                                                                               B
Cop'otoe tiett                                                                                OF              0
3      Far t-ny (proince) Capitols                                        A.oaolalaoo (                      4      - AO
CAahet-ie  oh Foratenr                                                  A,f,hohhy   _4Adp
Foritory bo-ndorie                                                                                        0lAntalaha
-,mrts des Fritong                                                              /AntEl+l
,  N. \n4-Blonsrionri         
_ _ Intornary,rgal boundaories                                                    -/O-                                Moroonnrsrra
irnries dewsFoats                                                                                            F
MohajAn9a~~~~~~ 4B.p-d--                                  
O               t 1  Maonfga                             4M,MPror-r
,0  Sool~glrx04t  '        ' '   y          Q          P-yX                            OMoNOSY
/            ~~Anrbotoboeny9P    -t  -                             /-
4Y B.,olarrpy              SlMvlnnXJ/                    4srf n              Sosniorarii INonig   NOSY
z                           t                  ~~~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~And.larrrns  ,Aimibod,lororro
'        \         { ~~~Alrnrorrerre            --  g Forilosis  Atsinooaoo
I                            ('4'                               B  ARA
mbotondrazqka
MOntiranoa\                            Aohoozog48t) An.oso O       gToamasina
or solovo                                                                   V -dy 
M--+.  &              F         F.             A  o.rr,rsr,
'.raoodd                         irnro 4oor 1'                            oliilom nd dionhi i nr
P   S             1       4~~~~~FArgo    Morr1 |  ooig
/    2            -   Sosoinsndrsoo                AdXmlns iniivrrrigdr
Migndr sozO      )           Fiorr7>        Arrbn rol  0yArros,bs gr'AI
Belo.Tsir.biIinJoF'        F                                                         F>~~ :4  1'  '    m ntnr
Marondov         MM - 6nd                                   r       PAnic sg
ForondoyO<<ebobo__  ,oMo;mbondy ~--    r              Fonhnroa   m,      /1
.6Ambo o -of droho-o   Ambositra            7Nosyvor-ks
.~~                        ~        ~          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ noo,   irsisg
,      M- o+1  --                                                    I d Monal1ary
Fionorontsoc  F
0            I<  ok.o
,     /)             rat 4         ovoh be        j8tVohi~~~~~~~~p n  KILOMETERS 0    so      100     150    200
j--                  I4                                                 MILES 050                      100
M                Sooroumi.et4<srs  Reorh                        Aninlsorog  ~oooo
i -         /k           '                             IbBelrF-CI'- /
TolioryN                                          4,                       Vonoomdrono
i~ ~          ~          ~ ~ ~~~~~ 4  \ M'd.ngy   -                      A 11__  TAN ZANI A    -
OIt t..kr-Sud                               Af-.                                   d      _/ 1^
F                      h4                                               2- MnCrMOK0
behecw eollr                                                             A      IMono  -t o
re*s~~~~~~~~~ -rFd -                                                                  Mocb    w     KoOMYA  0          50      10       0    200
7-rF@ton hBr.kdy0 AmSorsho\                                                                        ZrMBILES 0                            55           YB
us-ana tr rres stiobm                               X             , A.bY                                             5,Y 
-f^ M}rev.afm                                                                                                                           t' Sud  MA[.  'A
h}UlFFC@cO@bOO                  '                 syt~~~~~~~~~_.,   lolIognoro                        J      f            t'T
,rtr,_onAls{.bS      '                      '    ~~~~~~~~~A.b-.obe                                    ISOUTH 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APC
r nooveres                                                                                    g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iASAZLAND
-    Fn 4P. onA
JUNE 1 990



