Report No. 1418-KE                                                                          FILE  COPY
Kenya: Appraisal of the
South Nyanza Sugar Project
March 4, 1977
East Africa Region
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In October, 1975, the Kenya Shilling was devalued and pegged to
the SDR at a rate of SDR 1.00 = KShs. 9.66, and the rate vis-a-vis the
US Dollar has fluctuated since that time. For purposes of this appraisal
the following exchange rate has been used:
US$1.00 = Kenya Shilling (KShs.) 8.30
KShs. 1.00 = US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare                     =  10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles
2
1 sq. kiVimeter (km )         =  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.20 pounds
1 litre (1)                   =  0.26 US gallons
1 metric ton (t)              =  0.98 long tons = 1,000 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC   - Agricultural Development Corporation
AFC   = Agricultural Finance Corporation
DFCK  = Development Finance Company of Kenya
KNTC  -  Kenya National Trading Corporation
KSA   -  Kenya Sugar Authority
SBCU  -  Sugar Belt Corporative Union
SNSC  =  South Nyanza Sugar Company
|Thb documsnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   .............................                 i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION   ...................      ....  . .  ..............*         1
II.    BACKGROUND ...........................................                     2
A.    General            .........................................         2
B.    The Agricultural Sector .....           ....................         3
C.    Rural Development Strategy ...             ..................        3
D.   The Sugar Subsector               ............................        4
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ... oo          ..........................                9
General             ..............................................         9
Land Tenure-and Type of Farming    ..........  . ............             10
Climate ................................... o .......................     10
Topography and Soils ...        .     .     .............................  10
IV.    THE PROJECT ..... o....................................                   11
A.   General Description . ....... .....  ................. .            11
B.    Detailed Features ................... ........... .                12
C.    Project Costs .            ..................... ..........        18
D.    Financing o ... ......                  ..............             19
E.   Procurement ...... o           ..............................       21
F.    Disbursement  .... ................ . ......  ................... .  22
G.    Accounts and Audits ...................                 ...        24
H.    Ecological and External Effects             ...............        24
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........         ..     ...........      24
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .........            .       29
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........ .. ........                 33
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .              ...............      35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in May-June, 1976. The mission was composed of G. Ablasser, M. Fireman,
K. Niemann, and P. Santos (Bank) and M. Alipao, R. Cruz and J. Thijsse
(Consultants). A follow-up mission in October-November, 1976 consisted of
G. Ablasser, P. Santos and J. Mullan.



ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
2.   History and Performance of the Sugar Industry
3.   Existing Structure and Organization of the Sugar Industry
4.   Marketing and Pricing of Sugar
5.   The Project Area - General Description and Climatic Factors
6.   Soils and Drainage
7.   Land Development and Agricultural Practices
8.   Harvesting, Handling and Transport of Sugarcane
9.   Turnkey Factory Contract
10. Sugar Factory - Location and Sugar Manufacturing Process
11. Management Agreement
12. Project Area Roads
13. Housing and Social Amenities
14. Staff Training
15. Project Cost Tables
16. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of Bank Funds
17. Proposed Organization of the Kenya Sugar Authority
18. Proposed Organization of the South Nyanza Sugar Company
19. The World Sugar Market
20. Farmer, Company and Government Budgets and Benefits
21. Economic Analysis
CHARTS
World Bank - 16499    Implementation Schnedule
World Bank - 16460    Existing Sugar Industry Organization
World Bank - 16461    Kenya Sugar Authority, Proposed Organization
World Bank - 16463    Sugar Research Institute, Proposed Organization
World Bank - 16462    South Nyanza Sugar Company, Proposed Organization
World Bank - 16464    Agricultural Department Organization
World Bank - 16465    Factory Department Organization
World Bank - 16466    Finance and Administration Department
Organization
World Bank - 16467    Personnel and Industrial Relations Department
Organization
MAPS
IBRD  12374        Present and Potential Future Sugarcane Growing Areas
IBRD  12375        Sugarcane Growing Areas in Western and Nyanza Provinces
IBRD  12344        Project Roads
IBRD  12431       Major Soils Characteristics



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In efforts to save foreign exchange by better utilizing domestic
resources, to provide employment opportunities in rural areas and to strive
for a regional balance in the country's development, Government places high
priority on increasing the production of sugar in Kenya. Despite the estab-
lishment of three new sugar factories over the past decade, import require-
ments of sugar have not decreased significantly, averaging 55,000 t annually
for the period 1968-75 and placing an increasing burden on the country's
balance of payments. Without any additional investments in the sugar industry,
Kenya's domestic shortage of sugar would be in the range of 140,000 - 170,000
t by 1985. The Project, which is one of several sugar development projects
either under implementation or in preparation, would assist Kenya in increasing
sugar production to reduce imports and promote small-scale farm development in
a hitherto neglected area of the country.
ii.       The Project would strengthen the Kenya Sugar Authority in an effort
to create an effective body with responsibility for the orderly development
of the sugar industry. It would expand sugarcane production through the
establishment in South Nyanza District of a 2,650 ha nucleus estate and
9,000 ha outgrowers area; the latter would be phased over a 7-year period.
A sugar factory with a crushing capacity of 2,000 t of cane per day (TCD),
expandable to 3,000 TCD with ancilliary facilities, and staff housing would be
erected near Awendo, the geographic center of the proposed Project area.
Expansion to 3,000 TCD would require the development of a total of 15,900 ha
of outgrowers area over a period of 11 years. The Project also would provide
for the improvement of existing and the construction of new roads and tracks,
and for vehicles and equipment to transport the sugarcane to the factory.
Staff training and sugarcane research would be organized to benefit the sugar
industry in general and the new sugar company in particular.
iii.      The Kenya Sugar Authority, to be expanded under the supervision
of the Ministry of Agriculture, would assume an increasing role in the plan-
ning of sugar industry development and in providing advice to Government,
the sugar companies and to sugarcane growers. The agricultural and factory
development in South Nyanza would be the responsibility of the board of
directors of the South Nyanza Sugar Company; management would be provided by a
Managing Agent under contract with the Company. The Company also would be
responsible for the construction of staff houses, and of access roads and
tracks. The construction of major roads would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Works. The research and training program to meet Company needs
would be executed by Company staff; the national research effort is the
responsibility of the National Sugar Research Institute, and industry manpower
training would be coordinated by the Kenya Sugar Authority.
iv.       The organizational structure proposed for the Company is designed to
maximize productive efficiency and to foster a harmonious relationship between
the Company and outgrowers. The Company's Agricultural Department would be
responsible for the outgrowers' development program, in addition to the devel-
opment of its own nucleus estate, through planning, selection of participating



ii -
farmers and farmers' land with adequate soils, and provision of all necessary
inputs, services and extension advice. Farmers, who would be under contract
with the Company, would adhere to Company regulations throughout the growing
cycle of the cane and pay for the inputs and services provided by the Company
at the time of the harvest and delivery of the cane to the factory. There
would be no subsidy granted farmers by the Company or the Government.
v.        The Project would cost US$88.5 million.  With interest during
construction it would cost US$105.3 million, or US$95.3 million excluding
taxes and duties related to implementation or operation of Project facilities;
the foreign exchange component would be US$70.7 million. Of total Project
cost net of taxes and duties, plus interest during construction, about 25%
would be financed through the Government of Kenya, one percent would be
contributed by the Managing Agent of the sugar company, 65% would be financed
through a total of seven external loans, and nine percent would be covered by
the Company's self-generated funds. Overall total external financing, amounting
to US$61.7 million, would cover 72% of total foreign exchange costs and 32% of
local costs. Co-financing would be on a parallel basis, except roads would be
financed jointly with the African Development Bank. The supply and erection
of the sugar factory would be under a turnkey contract. A possible expansion
from 60,000 t to 90,000 t annual capacity, provided for in the Project's
design, would cost an additional US$11.2 million and require short-term loan
financing of US$2.7 million.
vi.       The World Bank would finance the sugar company's agricultural
development, research activities, management, administrative overhead, and
interest during construction on the World Bank loan; Government's road construc-
tion program and additional support for the National Sugar Research Institute;
and the strengthening of the Kenya Sugar Authority, and the Authority's
overseas training program and specific studies. The procurement under the
World Bank loan of vehicles, equipment, office machines and furniture (US$3.5
million), and civil works contracts for housing and social amenities (US$7.4
million) and roads under the responsibility of the Ministry of Works (US$5.5
million) would be by international conmpetitive bidding, except for items
costing less than US$100,000 and civil works contracts costing less than
US$200,000 which would be procured in accordance with local procedures. Local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate
of duty, whichever is lower, and prequalified local construction firms would
be given a 7-1/2% preference margin in the evaluation of their bids. Incre-
mental fertilizer requirements and fuels and lubricants (US$2.2 million) would
be procured in accordance with local procedures, and the construction of minor
access roads and tracks (US$3.6 million) would be by the Company's Road
Construction and Maintenance Unit and local contractors selected under local
procurement procedures. An overseas training component (US$0.3 million) and
special studies (US$0.3 million) would be the responsibility of the Kenya
Sugar Authority. Architects for the housing component, and the road engineer-
ing consultants would be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. For all contracts expected to cost in excess of US$300,000 draft
tender documents would be submitted to the Bank for approval, and bid analysis
and recommendation for award would be submitted for comment.



- iii -
vii.      Project incremental sugar production would be about 25,000 t in
Year 4 and 60,000 t annually at full development in Year 9 without expansion;
with factory expansion from 2,000 TCD to 3,000 TCD, production would reach
90,000 t in Year 12. Valued at projected import parity and expressed in
constant (March) 1977 prices, 90,000 t of sugar would be worth KShs. 367
million (US$44 million) and, thus, represent significant foreign exchange
savings. With the foreign exchange portion of continuing expenditures,
excluding debt service, estimated to amount to KShs. 80 million (US$10 mil-
lion), net annual foreign exchange savings at full development would be
about KShs. 287 million (US$34 million); including debt service, net foreign
exchange savings would amount to KShs. 210 million (US$25 million) in Year
12 and continue to increase thereafter. The Project would provide permanent
employment for about 1,800 persons, and casual employment as cane harvest
labor for 2,200 persons. The incomes of about 7,900 participating outgrower
families would be increased by an average of KShs. 3,055 (US$368) annually
or about 180% above current levels.
viii.     The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated to be
25%. The major risks facing the Project include more frequent or\severe
drought damage to sugarcane than has been assumed in the evaluation, disrup-
tions in cane supply to the factory related to unforeseen difficulties with
outgrowers' production of sugarcane, and marketing problems in conjunction
with other sugar projects Government intends to implement if world market
prices of sugar remained below the cost of production in Kenya and the com-
bined production exceeded self-sufficiency levels. However, the sensitivity
analysis indicates that even with the adverse assumption that output were
20% below expectation the economic rate of return would still be 20%; with
the projected export parity prices, and if export of total Project output
were assumed, the rate of return would be 19%.
ix.       Seventeen World Bank Loans and 11 IDA Credits, totaling nearly
US$131 million have been approved so far to assist in the financing of 13
projects in Kenya's agriculture sector. These include projects concerned
with livestock development, afforestation, tea development, settlement,
smallholder credit, rehabilitation of group farms, and integrated agricul-
tural development. Implementation of these projects has generally been
satisfactory, except of livestock projects where it has been slow.
x.        The Project is suitable for a World Bank Loan of US$25 million for
20 years, including a grace period of 4.5 years.






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Kenya has been a net importer of sugar for decades even though
the feasibility of producing sugar domestically was recognized since the
establishment of the first sugar factory in the 1920s. Since independence in
1963, Government has actively supported the expansion of the domestic sugar
industry and established three new factories in addition to the two private
factories existing prior to independence. Despite these efforts, however,
sugar imports remained high at an annual average of 55,000 t since 1968 and
the cost of such imports continued to increase. To counteract this trend,
rapid further development of the industry was foreseen in the 1974-78 Agri-
cultural Development Program. A UNDP-financed study was carried out, with the
Bank as Executing Agency, to provide a better basis for the planning of this
development 1/ and a number of projects have been identified.
1.02      This Project is one of Government's four high-priority sugar projects.
It is in line with Government's objectives to stimulate development in economic-
ally backward areas and to involve smallholder farmers in the development
process.  The other three projects concern the rehabilitation of the three
Nyanza Sugar Belt factories (Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni) and Ramisi at the
Coast, the establishment of a new factory at Nzoia with French Government as-
sistance, and the expansion to about double its present capacity of the Mumias
plant with assistance from the United Kingdom. Depending on Government's
price policy and the phasing of these projects, the resulting increase in
production either would result in some surpluses of sugar or more likely,
would make Kenya self-sufficient.
1.03      Since 1960, the Bank Group has extended 17 loans and 11 IDA credits
for 13 projects totaling nearly US$131 million to assist Kenya's agriculture.
Two projects each concerned livestock development and afforestation for pulp
and saw wood production, four supported the development of smallholder tea,
tea roads and tea factories, three were for settlement and smallholder credit,
one assisted the rehabilitation of group farms, and the most recent (1976) was
the Integrated Agricultural Development Project. In general, projects have
been well executed although there have been substantial delays affecting the
livestock projects. The nature of these projects differed substantially from
that of the present project; risks and deficiencies previously encountered in
smallholder production (farm planning, credit and service delivery systems,
etc.) would apply only to a very limited extent to the present project as
the proposed organization has been designed specifically to avoid these (para.
5.08). The Bank has also supported agricultural development in Kenya through
continuous agricultural policy discussions. A Bank agricultural sector survey
was completed in 1973.
1.04      The Project was prepared for Government by the Mehta Group, Ltd., a
private firm which has been subsequently appointed managing agent for the
1/   Tate and Lyle Technical Services, Ltd., Kenya Sugar Industry Expansion
Study, Vol. I - IV, September, 1975, Vol. V - VI, May, 1976.



- 2 -
Project. This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Kenya in May-June 1976 consisting of Messrs. G. Ablasser, M. Fireman,
K. Niemann, and P. Santos (Bank) and M. Alipao, R. Cruz and J. Thijsse (Con-
sultants). Messrs. K.G.V. Krishna and B. Mutharika (Bank) and R. Adams and R.
Vermeersch (European Investment Bank) joined the mission part-time in the
field. A follow-up mission in October-November, 1976 consisted of Messrs. G.
Ablasser, P. Santos and J. Mullan, and Mr. K.G.V. Krishna (part-time).
II . BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Lying astride the eq ator on the eastern coast of Africa, Kenya
has a total area of 583,000 km  with wide variations in climatic and ecolo-
gical conditions. While more than one-half of the total area is semi-desert,
the remaining land, varying in conditions from tropical to temperate, in-
cludes some of the most fertile soils on the African continent. The climate,
modified by altitude ranging from sea level to over 5,000 meters, is prin-
cipally differentiated in terms of rainfall regimes which vary from under
250 mm per year in the northern deserts to 1,900 mm per year in the western
highlands near Lake Victoria. The annual mean maximum temperature exceeds
26 C over 75% of the country, while the corresponding mean minimum tempera-
ture is about 14 C.
2.02      Kenya's population is estimated at 13.7 million (mid 1976) and is
growing at a rate of about 3.5% annually. It is estimated to double in
about 20 years. Approximately 20% of the population is under four years
of age, and 57% is under age 20. About 90% of the population is classified
as rural and is primarily dependent on agriculture for its livelihood. There
are extreme geographic variations in population density.
2.03      Kenya's GDP at factor cost in 1975 was about KShs. 20.8 billion,
or KShs. 1,573 (US$210) per capita. GDP growth averaged about 6.2% annually
in real terms between 1964 and 1974, but slowed down to 0.7% in 1975 following
accelerated world inflation, including oil price increases. GDP outside the
monetary economy in agriculture, forestry and fishing (subsistence) is estima-
ted to have increased 3.6% annually on average during the 1964-74 period,
while commercial agriculture grew by 5.3% annually. In 1975, subsistence
agriculture expanded by 0.4%, while commercial agriculture declined by 1%.
Kenya's imports of KShs. 6.9 billion in 1975 exceeded exports by KShs. 2.7
billion. Consumer prices rose about 19% in 1975, compared with 16% during
the preceding year.



B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 1)
2.04      In 1975, the agricultural sector contributed KShs. 6.2 billion,
or about _0% to the country's GDP; KShs. 2.6 billion represented the GDP
of commercial agriculture. In comparison, the total agricultural sector
share in GDP was 39% in 1964. Currently, agriculture accounts for about 70%
of total exports; the latter increased from KShs. 2.0 billion to KShs. 4.2
billion in the period 1965-75. The main agricultural exports are coffee,
tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat, dairy products, hides and skins, cotton, wool,
nuts and animal feed. The main subsistence foodcrops are maize, sorghum,
millet and pulses. The main cash crops are coffee, tea, maize, sugarcane,
wheat and sisal.
2.05      About 20% of Kenya's total land area of 58 million ha is of
high or medium potential for crops or livestock, including the highlands
and the coastal belt. A further 10% is suitable for subsistence dryland
farming and cattle ranching, while the rest is suitable only for extensive
production of livestock for both commercial and subsistence needs. Irriga-
tion development in the past had been confined to minor schemes but, more
recently, Government decided to accelerate the development of the country's
irrigation potential; about 150,000 ha have been identified as suitable for new
large-scale irrigation.
C. Rural Development Strategy
2.06      Government's development objectives for agriculture are to
(a) increase both the output and productivity of export commodities so
as to increase foreign exchange earnings and maintain their competitive
position in export markets; (b) diversify output to spread the risks of
price fluctuations; (c) increase production of food crops to meet growing
demand resulting from population growth; and (d) develop physical and
social infrastructure in integrated programs for both cash and food crops,
raise incomes and living standards in the poorer parts of the country
and reduce rural-urban disparities as well as income disparities and the
population-land imbalance among regions.
2.07      To attain these objectives, Government strategy consists of
(a) implementing programs centering on the smallholder sector; (b) providing
support to and integrating parastatals, cooperatives and private entrepreneurs
to contribute more to smallholder development; (c) taking measures to reduce
the population-land imbalance and the associated under-use of land and labor;
(d) promoting food crop production; (e) executing large-scale diversification
projects; and (f) developing the country's irrigation potential.



- 4 -
D. The Sugar Subsector
2.08      History (Annex 2).  The commercial production of sugar in Kenya
began with the establishment in the 1920s of the privately-owned factories
at Ramisi near the Coast and Miwani in the Nyanza Sugar Belt. After
World War II, the combined production of Ramisi and Miwani fell increasingly
short of meeting domestic demand, and the cost of importing sugar escalated
with rising demand resulting from population and income growth. After in-
dependence, Government decided to expand sugar production to attain eventual
self-sufficiency and, at the same time, increase incomes of small farmers.
New factories, majority-owned by Government, were established in Muhoroni
(1966) and Chemelil (1968) in the Sugar Belt of Nyanza Province and in
Mumias (1973) in Western Province. All factories produce "mill-white" sugar
which is yellowish-brown in color. In terms of value of its output and
contribution to wage employment, the sugar industry is of great importance to
the economy.
2.09      Institutions (Annex 3).  The Ministry of Agriculture has overall
responsibility for sugar industry development.  Through its representation
on the Boards of Muhoroni, Chemelil and Mumias, the Ministry directs the
operations of a major part of the industry. Its extension service is respon-
sible for providing advice to farmers, although very little advice is given on
the growing of sugarcane. The Ministry's National Sugar Research Station was
set up in 1971 at Kibos in the Sugar Belt; the results to date are poor,
however, because of inadequate guidance and lack of funds.
2.10      In 1972, the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) was created under the
Ministry of Agriculture to promote the development of the sugar industry
in general and give advice to Government. Its members represent Government,
the sugar companies and farmers; a Chief Executive Officer is in charge of
conducting current business. While the basic objectives of KSA are general-
ly sound and its legal basis is fairly broad, KSA has not been able to assume
its intended role due to reluctance on the part of some major Government
ministries to relinquish some of their responsibilities and control in the
sugar industry. Among the Authority's accomplishments are the zoning of
outgrowers areas and a study through an ad hoc committee of transport problems
in the Sugar Belt, and advising Government on pricing policy. In the future,
the development of the sugar industry would benefit from an increased role of
KSA (para 5.01).
2.11      The Ministry of Finance and Planning plays an important role in the
sugar subsector through its national planning function, budgeting powers and
influence on pricing policy; its foreign exchange and taxing policies to a
large extent determine the conditions for investment in the sector. The
IMinistry of Commerce and Industry determines import requirements of sugar for
household consumption and makes purchases abroad. It allocates sugar locally
on a monthly basis and has responsibility for domestic distribution through
the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) (para. 2.23). The Ministry also
participates in the formulation of price policy.



2.12      The Ministry of Lands and Settlement has been closely connected
with the development of sugarcane production through its Sugar Settlement
Scheme at Muhoroni. The Ministry's Lands Officer is responsible for ad-
judication surveys, registration of land rights and the acquisition of land
for Government use. The Settlement Office is primarily engaged in settling
landless farmers on new small-scale holdings established through reallocation
of former large-scale entities.
2.13      The Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services is responsible
for administering a range of programs concerning community development,
vocational rehabilitation, adult education and training, and cooperative
development. It has occasionally served as a channel for development funds
as, for example, in the Sugar Belt for the purpose of rehabilitating and
expanding the area under sugarcane. The Cooperative movement has played a
prominent role in Kenya's sugar industry through the Sugar Belt Cooperative
Union (SBCU) and its 35 member societies. Over the past several years, SBCU
has served as the main vehicle for improving smallholder production of sugar-
cane in the Sugar Belt. A German organization, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung,
has been providing technical assistance to SBCU for several years and current-
ly is funding approximately one-half of SBCU's annual budget. Despite an
enthusiastic staff, SBCU's success to date in raising farm production has been
limited, largely because of its broad integrated approach covering a much
wider sphere than production thus spreading management and staff rescurces too
thinly; its statutory reliance on voluntary cooperation by farmers and,
consequently, lack of effective control; and its susceptibility to political
intervention. The problem of stagnant farm incomes, which has reduced SBCU's
credibility with farmers, though partly due to SBCU's management shortcomings,
is mainly the result of past planning and operating mistakes by other organi-
zations, and the relatively low cane prices. With some staff assistance from
the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 2.19) SBCU has been implementing a Govern-
ment program to alleviate the Sugar Belt factories' cane shortage. Coopera-
tives are not involved at Mumias and are not expected by Government to play a
major role in any new projects because it considers a direct relationship
between the sugar companies and farmers to be more conducive to the efficient
production of sugarcane.
2.14      Kenya's banking institutions have been a major source of financing
for the sugar factories but have been less important in assisting sugarcane
growers. The Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd., (DFCK) and the
Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) have either loan or equity capital
invested in Muhoroni, Chemelil and Mumias and are expected to participate in
the financing of new projects. The Agriculture Finance Corporation (AFC) is
providing production loans to sugarcane farmers but has been inclined to give
preference to medium or larger farmers over smallholders because of the lower
cost of loan administration. The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd., through
its Cooperative Production Credit Scheme, has been providing credit and
saving facilities to members of cooperative societies; Sugar Belt farmers
have benefitted from this scheme.
2.15      Performance.  The technical and financial performance of Kenya's
sugar industry, with the exception of Mumias, has been poor. The private



-6-
Ramisi and Miwani companies have shied away from long-term reinvestment in
plant and equipment while aiming at profitable current account operations.
This has resulted in the old factories being in relatively poor repair and in
neglect by those companies of their outgrower farmers. Both Muhoroni and
Chemelil had major start-up problems, leading to huge losses at Chemelil and a
slightly better than break-even situation at Muhoroni. In contrast, the
Mumias company has been able to realize its planned development schedule and
to generate profits.
2.16      The major immediate cause of the poor company performance has
been insufficient cane supply and, consequently, underutilization of plant
capacity. In 1975, actual utilization of rated capacity ranged from 28%
at Ramisi to 62% at Chemelil; Mumias, approaching its first expansion phase,
had already exceeded its rated capacity. Overall, the industry performed
about 40% below capacity at a time when the country was faced with mounting
requirements of expensive sugar imports. Smallholder outgrowers' cane yields
in the Sugar Belt are low, averaging around 38 t/ha/year in the Miwani zone,
and somewhat higher at the Muhoroni end of the Belt. Nucleus estate yields
are 10-20% above smallholder yields. The yield problem has been compounded by
the organizational difficulties in harvesting and transporting (para. 2.20)
the cane. Considerably better yields are being achieved on some of the
private large farms. Average outgrower yields at Mumias reportedly exceeded
50 t/ha/year in 1975 and are expected to rise. The planned rehabilitation
project, for which Government has requested financial assistance from the
World Bank, is envisaged to remove the major constraints to better performance
of the existing sugar companies, except Mumias. At loan negotiations for the
South Nyanza project Government outlined its plans for the organization of
estate and outgrowers development in the Nyanza Sugar Belt, which will enable
the Bank to proceed with the appraisal of the rehabilitation project; an
interministerial committee has been established to assist the appraisal
mission.
2.17      Structure and Organization (Annex 3).  All factories are supplied
with cane from estates and outgrowers; the outgrowers' share ranges from
25% at Ramisi to 80% in Chemelil and Muhoroni. All factories own a nucleus
estate, except Muhoroni which is, however, in the process of acquiring the
privately-owned Nyando estate. The two private factories are managed by the
owners while Government has entrusted management of its majority-owned fac-
tories to agents; Bookers Agricultural Services of the United Kingdom are in
charge of Chemelil and Mumias, and The Mehta Group, Ltd. are managing Muhoroni.
Government's equity share in the companies ranges from 84% in Muhoroni to
almost 100% in Mumias and Chemelil.
2.18      There exists great diversity among companies in the organization of
agricultural production and the interrelationship between factory management
and cane producers. The effects of this diversity are closely correlated
with company performance, with the poor performance of all companies but
Mumias being primarily the result of insufficient cane supply (para. 2.16).
While low yields at the nucleus estates are caused largely by technical
and financial factors, the difficulties related to smallholder outgrowers



-7-
are mostly organizational and, in part, related to sugarcane prices. At
Muhoroni, most outgrowers are organized into a settlement scheme; services
are provided through the Sugar Settlement Organization and involve private
contractors for land preparation and cane transport. At Chemelil, the com-
pany's agricultural department serves mainly its own nucleus estate, but its
transport fleet is increasingly moving cane from private growers in addition
to cane from its estate. The supply and organization of services to small-
holders is mainly the responsibility of SBCU. The Union owns some equip-
ment but provides most technical services on a contract basis through private
operators. SBCU also serves some farmers at Muhoroni and the majority of out-
growers at Miwani. The Miwani company's agricultural department is providing
limited assistance to its outgrowers. At Mumias, the organization and pro-
vision of services to outgrowers has been the responsibility of the company's
agricultural department. However, an Outgrowers Company is now being formed,
leading to a gradual separation of the outgrowers responsibility from the
company. Virtually no formal organization is in charge of assisting outgrowers
at Ramisi.
2.19      Outgrowers' performance problems have been caused mainly by
inadequate extension advice, poor organization of cane harvesting, and
transport difficulties. These factors, coupled with low cane prices
(para. 2.25) resulted in low incomes to farmers and, consequently, little
interest in improving output. The extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture is multi-purpose, serving all crops, but has made only minimal
input to the production of sugarcane. After SBCU had assumed the major
service functions to outgrowers, including extension, some of the Ministry
extension staff was made available to SBCU. This arrangement is not very
satisfactory because of low staff morale and dissatisfaction within SBCU with
the quality of the staff. SBCU's own extension staff also is inadequate. At
Muhoroni, the Settlement Organization provides virtually no extension service.
Recognizing these deficiencies, the extension service at Mumias was organized
within the company's agricultural department which enforces strict criteria
for the selection of growers; assists in land preparation; provides inputs,
advice and current financing; and exercises tight control over all outgrowers'
operations related to cane production. Mumias' results to date are encouraging.
2.20      Because of lack of coordination between the factories and out-
growers in the Sugar Belt, the harvesting of cane has at times been very
unsatisfactory. Without proper control, farmers tend to bunch harvesting
in months with low labor requirements for other crops, sometimes forcing
acceptance of their cane by the factory through the burning of cane, claim-
ing emergency delivery privileges. The resulting artificial seasonality
in supply has contributed to low factory performance. Efforts are now being
made to establish appropriate harvesting schedules and coordinate these
between the companies and outgrowers organizations and among the companies
themselves. Harvesting in the Sugar Belt has also been hampered by a lack
of transport facilities for cane. In the absence of a carefully planned
master harvesting schedule, it has been difficult to effectively communicate
with transporters and to direct vehicles to destinations where needed as
the latter tended to be widely scattered. Private transporters also either
are reluctant to service outlying areas, or provide service to such areas
only at very high cost. With SBCU having acquired some transport equipment



- 8 -
and Chemelil expanding its fleet, the transport constraint has been eased
recently. All of the transport at Mumias is done by company-owned vehicles
and closely coordinated with the harvesting activities.
2.21      The organization of other services and activities, such as the
disposal of by-products, procurement of agricultural or factory inputs,
and manpower development is fragmented and often unsatisfactory. There is
a continuous problem with the transport of molasses for export, and the
provision of suitable sugar bags is requiring excessive management attention.
2.22      Supply and Demand Situation (Annex 4).  Kenya's sugar imports
averaged 59,000 t/year for the period 1955-67, and 55,000 t/year for 1968-75.
Because of the high world market prices in 1975, domestic prices were raised
sharply in Kenya, reducing import requirements for the year to about 33,000 t.
A further sharp drop was expected for 1976. Total consumption fell from
225,000 t in 1974 to 194,000 t in 1975, while domestic production declined
from 164,000 t to 161,000 t, respectively. On a per capita basis, consump-
tion decreased from a record 17.6 kg per year in 1974 to 14.6 kg in 1975;
preliminary indications are that the 1976 consumption was below 13.0 kg.
Without further investments, the domestic deficit in sugar would increase
sharply over the next few years (para 6.04).
2.23      Marketing and Pricing of Sugar (Annex 4).  The Kenya National
Trading Corporation (KNTC) under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the
sole national distributor of sugar. Upon an allocation order by the Ministry,
the sugar companies dispatch sugar to the 18 KNTC depots across the country.
Sugar imported by the Ministry is channeled through Kenya Farmers Association
(KFA) warehouses in Mombasa and dispatched by KFA. Payments to the factories,
including excise tax, and for imports, commissions and transportation, are
made out of the national sugar account by the Chief Accountant in the Office
of the President. KNTC, which performs primarily a warehousing wholesalers
function, sells to about 350 authorized private wholesalers throughout the
country for cash. The sales proceeds are deposited in local subaccounts of
the national sugar account. For this service, KNTC is paid a fixed commission.
Wholesalers sell to retailers on a private customer basis.
2.24      While this distribution system has been operational for a number
of years and has demonstrated that it can perform satisfactorily, difficul-
ties are occasionally encountered. These are due to a variety of causes
of which poor allocation of sugar by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
and transport difficulties are the most prominent. Among the more serious
consequences of marketing deficiencies have been (a) local shortages and
consequent consumer complaints when less sugar arrived locally than needed,
and (b) congestions at factory warehouses when less sugar was moved than
anticipated. Government would prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the improvement of the sugar distribution system and of sugar marketing and
submit it together with an indicative timetable for implementation to the Bank
before December 31, 1978. This plan would, as a minimum, cover the improvement
of sugar market research and analysis, the domestic sugar allocation system,
the organization of sugar transport, storage requirements, and the accounting
procedures relating to the national sugar account. An assurance to this
effect was obtained during negotiations. Funds from KSA's budget could be
used for preparing the plan (para. 4.16).



- 9 -
2.25      All prices and margins for sugar are fixed by Government upon
recommendation by KSA. The price of sugarcane, delivered to the factory
was increased from KShs. 52/t in 1966 to KShs. 92/t in 1975 and KShs. 105/t
in 1976. Because of transportation and other charges being deducted, the
net price to farmers is generally much lower than the factory gate price,
however. In order to encourage farmers to increase the use of modern pro-
duction inputs and adopt better husbandry practices, particularly timely
replanting, cane prices need to be increased. The ex-mill price of sugar
increased from KShs. 919/t in 1966 to KShs. 1,860/t in 1975 and KShs. 2,300/t
in 1976; the respective retail price was KShs. 1,550, KShs. 3,500 and KShs.
4,500 per ton. The increased margin between the ex-mill price and the retail
price is accounted for largely by increases in the import equalization levy
which was KShs. 1,362/t in 1976 but only KShs. 100/t in 1966; this levy is
intended to balance the national sugar account in the event the cost of
imported sugar exceeds the cost of domestically produced sugar. With gradual
import substitution through domestic sugar development a change in the
price structure will be required (paras. 6.06-6.08).
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General (Annex 5)
3.01      The Project area is situated just south of the equator within
the administrative area of South Nyanza District in Nyanza Province; a
small area located in neighboring Kisii District to the east may be included
if necessary. South Nyanza District borders on Tanzania in the south and on
Lake Victoria in the west. The only major township in the Project area is
Awendo, located approximately 35 km from Homa Bay, the District capital. A
newly improved 200-bed hospital is located just outside the Project area at
Migori, a primary school is situated near Awendo at Maringa, and the District's
Farmers Training Center is located in Homa Bay.
3.02      Access is by means of the tarmac A-1 national highway which runs
from Kisumu, the Provincial capital some 160 km to the north, to Tanzania
in the south. Minor lake traffic links Kisumu with Homa Bay, which is
connected to the main highway by an all-weather gravel road. All other
roads in the Project area are access roads and tracks which become im-
passable to most motor vehicles even during short rains. The nearest
railhead is at Kisumu. The distance from Kisumu to Nairobi is 310 km, and
Kisumu to Mombasa 800 km.
3.03      The total population of the Project area is approximately 95,000
people, with an average f~mily size of about seven persons. The population
density2is 123 persons/km , slightly above the Dist5ict average of 116 per-
sons/km , but considerably below the 306 persons/km in the neighboring
Kisii District. Of the total of about 13,600 families in the area, 500-600
would be displaced by the Project's nucleus estate (para. 4.05). The
inhabitants are almost exclusively Luos whose predominant occupation used
to be fishing in the Nile Valley and who migrated to the area several genera-
tions ago; they have adapted well to agricultural and pastoral life.



- 10 -
Land Tenure and Type of Farming (Annex 5)
3.04      Because of the area's relatively recent settlement, the average
farm size is relatively large at about six hectares. Practically all land
is owned in freehold. Adjudication and registration of land by the Ministry
of Lands and Settlement is virtually completed in the area designated for
the nucleus estate, but only about one-half finished in the outgrowers'
area; completion is expected in 1977. The natural vegetation consists of
grass and scattered trees and strips of riverine forest. Because of the
relatively large holdings, the high fertility of the soil and virtual absence
of commercial agricultural development, only about 20% of the land is under
cultivation at any given time and an additional 20% is under fallow. Most
crops grown are for subsistence purposes and include maize, millet, cassava,
sweet potatoes, beans and groundnuts. Sugarcane grown for local jaggeries
is the main cash crop. The poorly drained areas are mostly used for cattle
grazing.
Climate (Annex 5)
3.05      Rainfall increases from the southwestern to the northeastern part
of the Project area, averaging about 1,150 mm and 1,350 mm per year, respec-
tively. There is considerable inter-year and intra-year variation, however.
At Uriri, at the center of the Project area, annual rainfall over the past
18 years for which complete records are available averaged 1,350 mm and
ranged from 1,012 mm to 1,728 mm. It is estimated that there is a severe
dry spell of three months or more at least one year in five. The estimated
depressing effect of the drought on cane yields amounts to maximally 35% per
crop, or about 10% per year over a 5-year cycle with three crops (para. 6.01).
Temperature, though relatively stable throughout the year, is on the low side
for cane and is the main reason for the relatively long growing period of
20-22 months for the plant crop. However, cool temperatures also result in a
high sugar content in the cane juice and slow the decrease in sugar content in
case of delayed harvesting and processing after maturity.
Topography and Soils (Annex 6)
3.06      Approximately 15-20% of the Project area of some 77,000 ha has
a slope of less than one percent, with the remainder being moderately to
highly undulating. The area with an elevation of 1,400 - 1,500 m above
sea level slopes toward the northwest and is traversed by a number of
small to modera te-sized streams, including the Sare River with a minimum
flow of 0.11 m /sec. The geology is moderately complex, consisting of
mixtures of both acidic and basic pre-Cambrian primary and secondary rocks.
Differences in parent material and local topography have produced a dis-
tinguishable sequence of soils. Reddish or brownish, well drained soils of
variable depth dominate on the ridge crests and upper slopes; browner, finer,
deeper and less well drained soils are primarily found on the slopes; and in
the valley bottoms the soils are deep, dark brown to black, very fine textured
and poorly drained. The soils are unusually high in clay content and in
organic matter for tropical soils.



- 11 -
3.07      The poorly drained soils in the valley bottoms and some of the
higher elevated plains are unsuitable for cane production without drainage.
In addition, some shallow soils are marginally suitable and some are a
priori unsuitable on account of steep slopes or for other reasons. A
gross area of 3,410 ha, located within a 16 km radius from the sugar
factory site, has been designated as nucleus estate area, of which about
2,820 ha have been judged suitable for cane production (Map IBRD 12431).
Of the suitable nucleus estate area, 29% is suitable without reservation,
30% is slightly shallow and 41% needs drainage. Of the remaining part of
the Project area, or about 74,000 ha, which would be the potential outgrowers
area, 35% is suitable without reservation and 16% is relatively shallow but
considered suitable; 49% is unsuitable. Relatively shallow land, when culti-
vated with sugarcane by outgrower farmers, would produce economic yields in
years with rainfalls normal for the area, but could pose critical risks in
drought years. Only 25% of the Project area would eventually be under sugar-
cane; development of the arable portion of the remaining 75% would be part
of Government's overall development effort in the District.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over five years (1977-1981) establish a new sugar
complex in South Nyanza District, including a factory, a nucleus estate,
outgrowers' cane production and housing and transportation infrastructure. It
would also assist in the strengthening of the Kenya Sugar Authority. The
Project would increase the annual production of mill-white sugar by about
60,000 tons, which could later be expanded to about 90,000 tons. A Project
implementation schedule is attached as Chart World Bank-16499.
4.02      Specifically the Project would comprise:
(a)  Agricultural development, including (i) vehicles, machinery
and equipment, and staffing and operating costs for the
Agricultural Department of the new South Nyanza Sugar
Company; (ii) development of a 3,410 ha nucleus estate
(2,650 ha net area of cane), including the acquisition of
the land; (iii) development of 7,050 ha (9,000 ha after
6 years) of outgrowers' land for the production of
sugarcane; and (iv) drainage for nucleus estate land.
(b)  A sugar factory, including the supply, erection and commis-
sioning of a 2,000 TCD sugar factory, expandable to 3,000
TCD, complete with ancillaries under a turnkey contract;
vehicles and equipment; and operating costs.
(c) General Management and Administration, consisting of
(i) vehicles and equipment, and general Company overhead;



- 12 -
and administrative support staff and other operating
costs; and (ii) provision of management services for the
South Nyanza Sugar Company under a separate agreement
with an international firm.
(d) Infrastructure, including (i) construction and maintenance
of roads and tracks in the nucleus estate and outgrowers'
areas; and (ii) construction of staff houses and ancillary
facilities, and provision of social amenities including
health, nursing, canteen, shopping and recreational facilities.
(e) Research, consisting of provisions to carry out soils and
agronomic research in the Project area, and to strengthen
the National Sugar Research Institute.
(f) Training, including local on-the-job and formal training
for agricultural, factory and administrative personnel,
and overseas training to meet current and future industry
manpower needs.
(g) The Kenya Sugar Authority, providing for an expanded
role of KSA and its strengthening through additional
staff, vehicles and equipment, and for studies to be
undertaken by KSA.
4.03      Although the Company would have operating revenues in Years 4-5, the
whole of the first 5-year period has to be considered as development period.
Accordingly, agricultural and management staff salaries, and incremental
current inputs such as seedcane, fertilizers, chemicals and fuel and lubricants
would be treated as capital under the Project for Years 1-5. The Project is
to be executed by the South Nyanza Sugar Company, Ltd. (hereafter referred to
as the Company) which was established in July 1976.  Management is to be
provided by Mehta Group International, Ltd. (hereafter referred to as Mehta)
under a Management Agreement concluded in July 1976 (para 4.10).  The Project
would be in itself complete and would not require further non-Company capital
to reach the 60,000 t/year capacity.  To bring the capacity to 90,000 t/year
would cost an additional KShs. 93 million (US$11.2 million), of which KShs. 22
million (US$2.7 million) would be financed through a short-term loan and the
balance through self-generated funds.
B. Detailed Features
Agriculture
4.04      Agricultural Department.  The Department would be created within
the Company for the purpose of planning and executing all agricultural
operations under the Project (para. 5.06). 1/ It would be staffed with a
1/   For costing purposes, only the Department management and the Agricultural
Services Division are included in this overhead component; the Department's
Nucleus Estate Division is covered in the nucleus estate component (para.
4.05), the Outgrowers Division in the outgrowers component (para. 4.06)
and the Research Staff Unit in the research component (para. 4.13).



- 13 -
Department Manager, division managers, section supervisors and various
administrative, specialist and general personnel and provided with the
necessary furnishings; office machines, equipment and materials; vehicles
for staff transport; land surveying equipment; and with a complete work-
shop to service and repair all of the Company's agricultural (para. 4.05-
4.06) and road construction (para. 4.11) machinery and equipment.
4.05      Nucleus Estate (Annex 7).  A nucleus estate of about 2,650 ha
net cane area would be established over a four-year period around the town
of Awendo. A drainage system would be provided for part of the estate (para.
4.07). The share of total cane produced by the estate would decrease from
about 46% in the initial year of operation to 29% at full development 1/. A
total of approximately 3,410 ha of land would have to be acquired from the
existing smallholder farmers in the area, and 500-600 families would be
displaced. After full compensation for their property, the displaced farmers
and their families would (a) be given priority in recruitment by the Company
as factory or agricultural workers; (b) to the extent possible and desired,
acquire land in the outgrowers area and participate in the Project as cane
producers; or (c) move elsewhere in the country. The Government would provide
for the orderly resettlement of all displaced persons and agreed to designate
the District Commissioner of South Nyanza as the official responsible for
carrying through (a) - (c) above in an orderly fashion. The good prospects
for employment with the Company, the availability for sale of some land in the
Project area, and the opportunity to participate in Government's settlement
schemes outside the Project area provide reasonable assurance that farmers
would not be forced into alternatives which are less desirable than their
present situation. All land required has already been gazetted which enables
the Company to claim it for its use; compensation proceedings are underway.
The time of departure of farmers from the acquired land would depend on the
Company's need to have access to the land. The Nucleus Estate Division of the
Agricultural Department which would be responsible for the development of the
estate, would be fully staffed and equipped for this purpose. The major
equipment requirements include agricultural tractors and implements, lorries,
cane transport vehicles and cane loaders.
4.06      Outgrowers (Annex 7).  The development of outgrowers land for
sugarcane production would extend over a period of 6 years and reach 9,000 ha
and involve some 4,500 smallholders. 2/ Development would progress from the
nucleus estate radially outward to approximately less than 13 km to the east
and west and 16 km, or slightly beyond, in a north-easterly and south-westerly
direction. Suitable land also is found in Kisii District adjacent to and
within about 2 km of the border with South Nyanza District and could be
utilized as needed. Generally, only the top identified soil category would
be used for cane production. The next lower suitable category with shallower
soils could be included only after special review by the Agricultural Manager
of the profitability of production on such soils. The Outgrowers Division of
the Agricultural Department would be staffed and equipped to implement the
1/   After expansion to 90,000 t annual capacity, the estate's share would
decline to 20%.
2/   Expansion to 90,000 t annual capacity would take an additional five
years and expand the number of smallholders to 7,900 and the out-
growers cane area to 15,900 ha.



- 14 -
outgrowers' production program; the Division's staff would include agricultural
extension personnel. An Outgrowers Committee would be established to promote
harmonious outgrower relationships (para. 5.08). The type of equipment required
would be similar to equipment used in the development of the nucleus estate
(para. 4.05), and all equipment would be pooled and managed by the Agricultural
Services Division. The Agricultural Department would furnish all production
inputs to outgrowers and recover its costs upon delivery of farmers' cane to
the factory. Seed cane would be produced in nurseries to be established in
both nucleus estate and outgrowers areas. Farmers would be responsible for
land clearing, planting, gapping, weeding, fertilizer application and trash
raking after harvest; they would also be able to participate in cane harvesting
as casual laborers employed by the Company. The Project's total land development
program is summarized below:
Total
1977  1978    1979   1980   1981  5 years  1982-87 /a
(Hectares)
Nucleus Estate            135    915    900    700    --    2,650    --
Outgrowers               150  1,500  1,500  1,700  2,200   7,050   8,805
Total               285  2,415  2,400  2,400  2,200   9,700   8,805
Cumulative            285  2,700  5,100  7,500  9,700             18,505
/a   Includes 1,950 ha to reach the 60,000 t annual capacity, and 6,855 ha to
achieve 90,000 t.
Cane harvesting and transport schedules, and machinery and equipment required
are shown in Annex 8.
4.07      Drainage (Annex 6).  Field drainage infrastructure would be installed
on nucleus estate land, about 1,170 ha of which would require drainage. To
achieve effective drainage, cross drains and main drains would traverse the
entire estate area of 3,410 ha. Field drains, to be constructed in 8-plot
units of 10 ha each, would connect with cross drains which would empty into
main drains; all drains would be open ditches. A total of 60 km cross drains
and 43 km of main drains would be built. Major excavations would be done
mechanically, while manual labor would be used for minor excavations, trimming,
dressing and maintenance. Rotary ditchers, mounted on 4-wheel drive tractors,
would be the principal type of equipment provided. The Nucleus Estate Division
would execute the work. No drainage works would be provided in the outgrowers
area as no land requiring draLnage would be utilized for cane growing there.
Sugar Factory
4.08      A new factory capable of producing mill-white sugar is to be con-
structed in the Project area. The factory is to be supplied under a turnkey
contract 1/ which includes cane handling facilities; a milling plant; juice
clarification, evaporation, boiling, cooling, curing, sugar drying and bag-
ging facilities; a steam and power generating plant; factory and agricultural
workshops; a laboratory; all standard auxiliary equipment; and spare parts
for the factory equipment. The contract provides for the supply on-site,
1/   Signed on July 15, 1976 and effective as of October 15, 1976.



-15 -
erection and commissioning of the factory over a 3-year period after the
date of effectiveness of the contract (Annex 9). The factory as specified
under the contract is a standard plant for the manufacture of sugar by the
double-sulphitation process, capable of milling 2,000 tons of cane in a
22-hour working day (TCD), and expandable to 3,000 TCD. It is to be sited
about one kilometer from Awendo town and 120 m from the Sare River which will
supply all of the required water; it will be easily accessible from the main
highway (Annex 10).
General Management and Administration
4.09      Administration.  The Finance and Administration Department and
Personnel and Industrial Relations Department of the Company would be
fully staffed and equipped with office machines, materials and furniture;
cars and communication equipment; and an ambulance. 1/ Together with the
General Manager's office, these departments would have major implementa-
tion responsibility and, after commissioning of the factory, would perform
the Company's regular administrative tasks.
4.10      General Management.  Management services for the Company are to
be provided by The Mehta Group International, Ltd. under a Management Agree-
ment signed July 15, 1976. Mehta is to be remunerated through an annual fee
up to the factory commissioning date, and through an annual fee plus a variable
commission thereafter, which is re-negotiable, for a total period of ten
years. In addition, Mehta is to be reimbursed for certain expenses. Mehta is
to pay the General Manager's salary. The scope of the services to be provided
includes technical, financial and managerial responsibility for the Company's
industrial, agricultural, personnel and administrative matters (Annex 11).
At negotiations, Government reviewed with the Bank the terms and conditions
of the Management Agreement. In the event the existing Management Agreement is
terminated, the terms and conditions of a new agreement would have to be
acceptable to the Bank.
Infrastructure
4.11      Roads.  To facilitate easy access to fields from the factory, the
road network in the Project area would be improved and expanded. Of the
estimated total of 735 km of roads and tracks to be built, 187 km would be
in the nucleus estate and 548 km in the outgrowers area; 649 km would be
non-classified and 86 km classified roads under the national highway system.
In terms of standards, the construction program would include access tracks,
access roads, feeder roads, collection roads, and a factory access road.
Foundation investigations would be undertaken to determine whether a bridge or
underpass would be built for crossing the A-1 highway. Additional survey work
would be required for roads in selected areas at distances beyond the 13 km
radius from the factory up to which roads have already been surveyed. Engi-
neering consultants for the survey and for supervision of construction would
be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; an assurance
to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The construction of all
1/   Training activities, administered by the Personnel and Industrial Rela-
tions Department are costed under the training component (para. 4.15).



- 16 -
bitumen roads, gravel roads involving large quantities of earthwork, and major
structures (KShs. 45.8 million or US$5.5 million, including contingencies)
would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Works. The construction of
access roads and tracks and of minor works (KShs. 29.6 million or US$3.6
million) would be the responsibility of the Company. However, all roads,
except non-classified estate roads, would be eventually owned and maintained
by the Ministry of Works. The Company would create a Road Construction and
Maintenance Unit to enable it to best coordinate its agricultural development
program with the construction of access roads and tracks, and to establish road
maintenance expertise. Details on Project area roads are shown in Annex 12.
4.12      Housing and Social Amenities (Annex 13).  The Project would provide
830 housing units for the Company's permanent factory and agricultural workers
of which 10 would be for managerial staff; 34 for supervisors; and 786 for
other workers. The houses would be located close to the factory in the
direction of Awendo town. To provide accommodation needed by some estate
laborers, traditional-style housing (i.e. rondavels) would be built at several
locations within or adjacent to the estate for a total amount of KShs. 5.4 mil-
lion (US$650,000); construction would be under a sites-and-services approach,
with the Company preparing the sites and providing materials to Company
employee participants and recovering the cost through payroll deduction. A
residence for the General Manager, a guest house, fully equipped dispensary
and mother-and-child center, Company store, and facilities to conduct social
and sports activities for Company staff also would be established. All
necessary infrastructure such as lighting, water supply, sewage disposal,
community streets, etc., would be provided with the houses and auxiliary
facilities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that architects
would be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Research
4.13      The Research Staff Unit of the Company's Agricultural Department
would be staffed and equipped to (a) furnish agronomic advice to Department
staff, (b) oversee the Company's nursery operations, (c) conduct experiments
as needed to address agricultural problems that are currently encountered in
the Project area or could occur in the future, e.g. depletion of soil fertility,
weed and pest control, etc., (d) conduct experiments and investigations
towards improving sugarcane yields in the long run, and, (e) cooperate with
the National Sugar Research Institute in pursuing an effective, coordinated
national research effort to avoid duplication with research of other sugar
companies. Among the main activities of the Research Unit would be investiga-
tions related to soils, drainage and irrigation (Annex 6); variety and fertili-
zer trials, development of improved cultural practices for outgrower farmers,
pest control, and evaluation of meteorological observations (Annex 7).
4.14      To improve the effectiveness of the national research effort, the
Ministry of Agriculture's National Sugar Research Institute 1/ would be
strengthened through additional staff, vehicles and equipment. KSA would
assist in the identifcation of research needs and in the review of research
results.
1/   A change in title from the present "National Sugar Research Station,
Kibos" is recommended.



- 17 -
A comprehensive sugar research program acceptable to the Bank, covering the
key areas described in Annex 6, para. 18-20 and Annex 7, para. 26-27, would
be submitted to the Bank before July 1, 1978; an assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations.
Training (Annex 14)
4.15      A training program would be instituted for agricultural, factory
and administrative staff to facilitate a smooth start-up of the Company,
prepare for future staff replacements, and make a contribution to industry-
wide manpower development. The local program would include apprenticeships
in existing sugar companies, training at Industrial Training Centers, and
on-the-job training supplemented by work-time classes within the Company.
Overseas training in business administration and sugar technology would
be provided under a special program to meet industry needs.  The Company's
Training Officer would cooperate with the Training Officer of KSA in preparing
specific Company training programs. In order to best meet the long-term
manpower requirements of the sugar industry, KSA would prepare an industry-wide
training program showing specific needs for personnel and targets to be
achieved; a program acceptable to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank
before December 31, 1978. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations.
Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
4.16      The Project would strengthen the Kenya Sugar Authority through
the provision of additional staff, vehicles, and office space and equipment,
and assist its reorganization to enable it to play a wider and more effective
role in the development of the sugar industry and to make it the Government's
principal instrument for overseeing the industry (para. 5.01). The Project
would also provide funds (KShs. 3.1 million or US$375,000) for studies to
be conducted by KSA as summarized in Annex 17, para. 26. At negotiations,
Government agreed to reorganize KSA along the lines described in Annex 17. It
would be a condition of loan effectiveness that Government had taken all
actions necessary to expand the membership of KSA (Annex 17, para. 7) and to
authorize it to carry out the enlarged functions (Annex 17, para. 4). It was
agreed that in addition to the Chief Executive and Economist/Statistician
already in post, a Planning Officer, Financial Analyst, Agronomist, Agricul-
tural Extension Specialist, Sugar Technologist, Training Officer and appro-
priate support staff would be employed by January 1, 1978. KSA would prepare
and submit to the Bank a plan for future financing of its operation by July
1,1979. Until such a plan can be implemented Government would assure that
sufficient funds are made available to KSA to finance all expenditures
approved by the Members of KSA and not covered under the Project. KSA's
Financial Analyst, to be provided under the Project, would be responsible for
monitoring the progress of the Project.
Interest During Construction (Annex 20)
4.17      Total interest and other charges on Project loans from all sources
(para. 4.19) would amount to KShs. 139.4 million (US$16.8 million) over five
years. Interest and other charges payable by the Company over the five-year
period would be KShs. 105.6 million (US$12.7 million), of which KShs. 33.0



- 18 -
million (US$4.0 million) would be interest and committment fees on the on-lent
portion of the World Bank loan. KShs. 25.2 million (US$3.0 million), represent-
ing simple interest on the World Bank loan, calculated on the basis of the
lending rate to Government rather than the on-lending rate to the Company
(para. 4.20), and including committment fees, would be capitalized and financed
from the proceeds of the World Bank loan. Disbursement to Government would be
against total interest and other charges due on the entire loan portion to be
passed on to the Company (para. 4.24(a)); Government would disburse an equal
amount to the Company for interest and other charges payable by the Company to
Government on the on-lent portion of the World Bank loan.
C. Project Costs
4.18      A summary of Project cost estimates, based on March, 1977 prices and
presented in detail in Annex 15 is as follows:
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange
---(KShs. Millions)----    --- (US$ Millions)----           %
Agriculture                 59.3      65.2    124.5        7.1    7.9      15.0        52
Sugar Factory               76.3    240.9    317.2         9.2   29.0      38.2        76
General Management
and Administration         17.9      14.5      32.4      2.1    1.8        3.9        45
Roads                       21.8      32.5      54.3       2.6    3.9       6.5        60
Housing and Social
Amenities                  30.3      15.7     46.0       3.7    1.9        5.6        34
Kesearch                     5.1       5.7      10.8      0.6    0.7        1.3        53
Training                     1.5       2.0       3.5      0.2    0.2         .4        56
Kenya Sugar Authority       11.8       5.9      17.7       1.5    0.7       2.2        33
Subtotal            224.0    382.4    606.4        27.0   46.1      73.1        63
Physical Contingencies    14.8        15.2      30.0       1.8    1.8       3.6        51
Price Contingencies         48.6      49.7      98.3      5.8    6.0       11.8        51
Total Project Cost         287.4    447.3    734.7       34.6   53.9       88.5        61
Finance Charges
During Construction          -       139.4    139.4         -    16.8      16.8       100
rand Total                 287.4    586.7    874.1       34.6   70.7    105.3          67



- 19 -
Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 10% for all Project
components except the purchase of nucleus estate land, the sugar factory
turnkey contract, the Company management fee, not directly Project-related
staff training, and Kenya Sugar Authority salaries, for which no physical
contingencies have been allowed. Price contingencies for the five years
1977-81 have been included at the following annual rates: 13%, 12%, 12%,
12% and 10% respectively, for civil works; 9%, 8%, 8%, 8% and 7% for vehicles
and equipment; and 10%, 10%, 10%, 10%, and 9% for salaries (Annex 15, Appen-
dix 1). No price contingencies have been allowed on the foreign currency
portion of the factory turnkey contrat since that contract does not provide
for such contingencies. Local taxes, principally including import duties,
excise duties and income taxes on earnings of Project staff, estimated at
KShs. 82.6 million (US$10.0 million) are included in the above Project costs
estimates.
D. Financing
4.19      Financing of the Project would be as follows:
Sources of Financing                    Total Project Costs and Finance Charges 1/
(US$ Millions)   %
World Bank                                                25.0       26.2
Suppliers Credit - Germany 2/                              6.8        7.1
Suppliers Credit - India 2/                                6.2        6.5
European Investment Bank 2/                               13.2       13.9
East African Development Bank 2/                           2.4        2.5
Eximbank 3/                                                2.6        2.7
African Development Bank                                   5.5        5.8
Government of Kenya                                       23.7       24.9
The Mehta Group                                            1.2        1.3
Company Self-generated Funds                               8.7        9.1
Costs Net of Taxes and Duties, and Finance Charges    95.3          100.0
Taxes and Duties 4/                                       10.0
Total Project Costs and Finance Charges                  105.3
1/   Includes interest payments and commitment fees (Annex 15, Table 21).
2/   To be applied to the sugar factory only.
3/   The Eximbank loan is for $3.2 million of which $2.6 million will be
be applied towards this project.
4 /  Includes import duties, excise duties on Project inputs, and income
taxes on staff salaries, of which US$9.0 million would result from
Company activities and US$1.0 million from KSA and direct Government
activities.



- 20 -
4.20      The World Bank contribution would be divided between the Company
(US$20.9 million) and other components under Government's responsibility
(US$4.1 million); it would be at the interest rate current at the time of
Board approval of the loan 1/ with a repayment period of 20 years, including a
moratorium on principal of 4.5 years. Of the World Bank finance in respect of
the Company US$5.0 million would be in the form of equity and US$15.9 million
would be by loan to the Company. The World Bank on-lent finance would be at
10.5% annual interest (the current lending rate relevant to long-term lending
in Kenya) and also for 20 years with 4.5 years of grace. An executed agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank covering the investment and onlending terms
between Government and the Company would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The Company would assume the foreign exchange risk.
4.21      Kenya Government's contribution would be US$17.5 million to the
Company, US$2.2 million to other Project activities including roads, research,
training and the Kenya Sugar Authority, and US$4.0 million would be interest
payments on loans from the World Bank and the African Development Bank. The
total Government contribution to the Company would be in equity which, with
the World Bank on-investment and a contribution by the Managing Agent of
US$1.2 million, would bring total equity of the Company to US$23.7 million.
With this equity amount, the equity/loan ratio in the Company would be 36:64
in Year 5, the year with the least favorable ratio.
4.22      The Project financing would be shared on the following basis:
World Bank:  the Company's agricultural development, research
activities, management, administrative overhead,
and interest during construction on the World Bank
loan; road construction and the National Sugar
Research Institute directly under Government; and the
strengthening of the Kenya Sugar Authority, and the
Authority's overseas training program and studies;
Suppliers Credit Agencies: the factory turnkey contract;
European Investment Bank: the factory turnkey contract;
East African Development Bank: the factory turnkey contract;
Eximbank: agricultural equipment;
African Development Bank: roads.
The loans by the World Bank and African Development Bank would be to the
Government of Kenya; all other loans would be extended directly to the Com-
pany. The terms and repayment conditions applying to these loans are detailed
in Annex 20. The co-financing would be on a parallel basis, except roads
would be financed jointly with the African Development Bank. The effective-
ness of the World Bank loan would be dependent on evidence satisfactory to the
Bank of the availability of the loans of the European Investment Bank and the
African Development Bank having been provided, and on a share subscription
agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the Company and Mehta having been
1/   The evaluation (Annex 20) is based on an annual interest rate of 9.0%,
while the effective rate at the time of Board approval is expected to be
8.5%.



- 21 -
entered into. Overall total external financing of US$61.7 million would
amount to 65% of total Project costs net of taxes and duties, and including
finance charges, and cover 72% of total foreign exchange costs and 32% of
local costs. The World Bank contribution would represent 26% of total costs
of which 62% would be foreign exchange and 38% would be local. Of the balance
not financed externally, 25% is net investment by the Kenya Government, about
one percent represents the Managing Agent's contribution, and nine percent is
Company self-generated funds.
E. Procurement
4.23      Procurement from the proceeds of the World Bank loan would be as
follows:
(a) The Company's procurement of vehicles, equipment, and office
machines and furniture (US$3.5 million, including contingen-
cies) would be by international competitive bidding, following
Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a
preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever
is lower. Orders for less than US$100,000, incremental fertili-
zers and all fuels and lubricants (US$2.2 million) would be
procured in accordance with local procedures which are satisfac-
tory; the national distribution and prices of fuels are Govern-
ment controlled and fertilizers are bulk-procured by Government
on a national basis, and international competitive bidding
would not be appropriate. Orders would be bulked to the
maximum extent possible. While the procurement of vehicles and
equipment for KSA and the National Sugar Research Institute
(US$0.3 million) would in principle be by international competi-
tive bidding, individual orders would be spread out over a
three-year period and, most likely, exempt on account of size.
Procurement for the National Sugar Research Institute would be
through the Ministry of Agriculture; KSA would be responsible
for its own procurement.
(b) Civil works contracts for the construction of houses and social
amenities (US$7.4 million), and of roads under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works (US$5.5 million) would also be procured
by international competitive bidding except for contracts or
items costing less than US$200,000. Prequalified local firms
would be given a 7-1/2% preference margin in the evaluation of
their bids. The construction of access roads and tracks
(US$3.6 million) would be the responsibility of the Company and
undertaken by the Company's Road Construction and Maintenance
Unit or, to the extent that the Unit's capacity is exceeded,
by local contractors to be selected under local procurement
procedures (para. 4.11 and Annex 12).
(c) Training activities other than those under the Company's re-
sponsibility would be conducted by KSA (US$0.3 million), with



- 22 -
the candidates for training and the educational institu-
tions to be selected by KSA's Training Officer. KSA's Planning
Officer would undertake industry-related studies (US$0.4 million)
as approved by the Bank.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$300,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before invitations
are issued, and bid analysis and recommendation for award would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for comment before contracts are awarded. Any items
retroactively financed would have had to meet the above procurement re-
quirements. Assurances that the above procedures would be followed were
obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursement
4.24      Against appropriate documentation, the Bank would disburse on the
following basis:
(a)  The South Nyanza Sugar Company
(i)  100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles, equipment,
offices machines and furniture; 80% of the local cost
when purchased locally or, if procured from local manufac-
turers pursuant to international competitive bidding, 100% of
ex-factory cost (US$2.40 million);
(ii)  30% of total expenditures for access roads and tracks, in-
cluding engineering, construction, supervision and main-
tenance (US$0.90 million);
(iii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported fertilizers, fuel
and lubricants; 80% of the local cost when purchased
locally (US$1.35 million);
(iv)  80% of Company salaries, excluding wages and salaries
of workers employed in the operation of the factory,
but including factory management and administrative
salaries and all non-factory salaries and wages of the
Company (US$4.50 million);
(v)  100% of foreign excpenditures for the management fee
(US$0. 70 million);
(vi)  80% of total expenditures for houses and social
amenities, including architects' fees (US$5.00 million);
(vii) 100% of interest payments and the committment fee on the
World Bank loan due on disbursements under (i)-(vi) above
from the date of signing of the loan agreement and accruing
before March 14, 1983 (US$3.04 million);



- 23 -
(b) The Government and the Kenya Sugar Authority
(i) 30% of total expenditures for roads other than access roads
and tracks, including engineering, construction, supervision
and maintenance (US$1.40 million);
(ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles and equip-
ment, fertilizers, fuel and lubricants, and of staff
salaries plus allowances and recruitment expenses for the
National Sugar Research Institute; 80% of the local cost of
items purchased and staff hired locally (US$0.70 million);
(iii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles, furniture,
equipment, fuel and lubricants, and of staff salaries
plus allowances and recruitment expenses for the Kenya
Sugar Authority; 80% of the local cost of items purchased
and staff hired locally (US$1.20 million);
(iv) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training
(US$0.25 million);
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures of studies undertaken by the
Kenya Sugar Authority, including consultancy services and
related salaries; 80% of local expenditures (US$0.3
million);
(c) Unallocated Amount
An amount of US$3.26 million additional to US$2.86 million
contingencies included in the above and transferable to
them as required .
Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception that expenditures
for fertilizers, fuels and lubricants, salaries and KSA training activities
and special studies would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures,
the documentation for which would not be submitted to the Bank but retained by
the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. Expenditures under these
categories are likely to amount to US$12.2 million equivalent, of which US$9.8
million equivalent would be eligible for reimbursement. Any funds remaining
in the accounts at the completion of the Project would be available for
Project-related items to be agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower.
4.25      For the period between July 1976 and the date of signing of the
loan agreement retroactive financing would be required for items detailed
in Annex 15, Table 22. These items, which relate to start-up activities
of the agricultural development program, have a total estimated cost of
KShs. 5.46 million (US$0.66 million) of which KShs. 4.54 million (US$0.55
million) would be eligible for disbursement by the Bank.



- 24 -
G. Accounts and Audits
4.26     Satisfactory separate accounts geared to producing cost control
and management information related to all operating departments would be kept
by the Finance and Administration Department of the Company. The Department
would also be in charge of maintaining the credit accounts for individual
outgrowers. Satisfactory separate accounts also would be kept by the Kenya
Sugar Authority, the National Sugar Research Institute and other Government
agencies concerned. Assurances were be obtained during negotiations that
the above accounts would be maintained, that the accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that the accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of their
fiscal year, except for the Company's accounts and reports which would be
submitted within four months of the close of its fiscal year.
H. Ecological and External Effects
4.27      The proposed location of the factory was selected taking into
account the prevailing wind direction to minimize any annoyance of the
nearby community through factory odor and smoke. Fly-ash arresting equip-
ment would be installed to keep ash dust precipitation to an acceptable
minimum. The proposed factory process would require relatively few and
harmless chemicals; the industrial lime to be used would be disposed with
the filter mud as a soil conditioner in the cane fields. The major factor
in polluting the effluents would be leaks of sugar solution into factory
drains. Equipment and facilities to be provided for controlling effluents
from the factory would include a treatment plant with mixing chambers and
a series of evaporation ponds. The proposed use of fertilizers would not
have any harmful long-run effects on soil fertility or the groundwater
in the area. There would be no danger of soil erosion in view of the long
vegetative cover resulting from the extended growing period of sugarcane
and exclusion of steep slopes from cane cultivation. Soil damage through
cane transport vehicles would be minimized by limiting overall vehicle
weight for infield operations and the tire pressure on the ground through
appropriate design of cane trailers. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the Company would implement the Project with due regard to environmental
factors and, specifically, that the air and water purification facilities
provided for in the factory turnkey contract should be installed.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   The Kenya Sugar Authority (Annex 17)
5.01      The Kenya Sugar Authority would be a Government organization which
would advise it and be empowered to regulate, guide, monitor, advise and in
certain circumstances direct the development of the sugar industry. The sugar



- 25 -
companies would, however, remain self-governing. Established under the
Agriculture Act, KSA's primary responsibility would be to the Minister of
Agriculture. The management of the Authority would be entrusted to the
Members of the Authority, with the Chairman and representatives of sugarcane
growers, the sugar companies and the commercial sector at large to be appointed
by the Minister of Agriculture; other Members would represent the Ministry of
Agriculture and other Government Ministries concerned with the sugar industry.
The Chief Executive, appointed by the Members with the approval of the Minister
of Agriculture, would be in charge of operations and administration of the
Authority. Government would be responsible for ensuring financing of KSA;
financial requirements, in addition to Project funds, would be met initially
from the national budget and eventually as determined in KSA's future financing
plan (para. 4.16). The proposed organization of KSA is depicted in Chart
World Bank - 16461.
B.   Project Construction Organization
5.02      The overall responsibility for implementing the agricultural,
company research and training, factory and housing components of the Project
would rest with the Company, and specifically the Company's Managing Agents.
The Company would also be responsible for the construction of access roads
and tracks. The Ministry of Works would be responsible for the construction
of roads other than access roads and tracks, and for all road maintenance,
except the Company-owned roads in the nucleus estate which would be maintained
by the Company. The implementation of the programs to strengthen the Kenya
Sugar Authority and the National Sugar Research Institute would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. The component concerning
training not directly related to the South Nyanza Sugar Company would be
implemented through KSA.
5.03      The agricultural development program would be handled by the
staff of the Company's Agricultural Department using machinery and equipment
provided under the Project (para. 4.04). The factory development program \
would be handled as a turnkey package with equipment provided by, and civil
works undertaken by a German/Indian group of reputable firms with experience
in the sugar industry (Annex 9). The Bank was given an opportunity to comment
on the specifications, terms and conditions of the turnkey contract (para.
4.08) prior to signing even though it would not be involved in financing any
costs under that contract. The terms and conditions of the contract were also
reviewed at negotiations.
5.04      The supervision of construction, equipping and testing of the
factory would be by Mehta under a Management Agreement with the Company (Annex
11). Government would engage at its own expense a consultant or firm of
consultants, who would report to the Company's Board of Directors, to monitor
the performance in construction under the factory turnkey contract. Such an
arrangement would be desirable since the Company's management firm, i.e.,
Mehta, is also a party to the factory supply contract. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that Government would have appointed a consultant or
firm of consultants satisfactory to the Bank by October 15, 1977 and retain
the consultant's service until the acceptance tests for the factory have been
successfully completed.



- 26 -
C.   Company Organization and Management (Annex 18)
General Management
5.05      The chief executive officer of the South Nyanza Sugar Company, Ltd.
would be the General Manager who would be appointed and salaried by the
Company's Managing Agent and be responsible to the Company's Board of
Directors. He would manage the affairs of the Company through four adminis-
trative departments: Agricultural, Factory, Finance and Administration, and
Personnel and Industrial Relations (Chart World Bank - 16462). The Minister of
Agriculture is to appoint the Board of Directors, on which the Mehta Group
is to be represented by one Director. The Management Agreement appointing the
Company's Managing Agent is described in Annex 11.
The Agricultural Department
5.06      Under the supervision of its manager, the Agricultural Depart-
ment of the Company would be responsible for all agricultural aspects of
the Project. The Department's Agricultural Services Division, through its
Construction, Harvesting, Transport and Workshop Sections, would provide
ali necessary services for the development of estate and outgrowers' land,
except agricultural extension which would be the responsibility of the
Company's Outgrowers Division. The Survey Unit in the Construction Section
would be responsible for surveying the area of farmers' fields, and assist the
Engineering Consultants in aligning roads and tracks to be constructed by the
Company (para. 4.11). The Land Preparation Unit would carry out the mechanized
operations of the planting program under supervision by the Nucleus Estates
Division (para. 5.07) and the Outgrowers' Division (para. 5.08). The Harvest-
ing Section and Transport Section would be in charge of sugarcane harvesting
and transport both for the nucleus estate and outgrowers. A workshop would be
fully equipped to service and repair all agricultural machinery and equipment
and the machinery and equipment used by the Road Construction and Maintenance
Unit. The latter unit would be administratively part of the Agricultural
Services Division to make possible its easy use of the workshop facilities and
an exchange of equipment with the Land Preparation Unit should such be required.
T`he Department's Research Staff Unit would carry out the Company's experimental
activities and supervise the establishment of the cane nurseries in cooperation
with the National Sugar Research Institute.
5.07      The Nucleus Estates Division of the Agricultural Department would be
responsible for the planning and implementation of the estate's development
program through its three operational sect-ions. Land clearing and preparation
would be mechanized, weed controi would be done both mechanically and manually,
and harvesting would be entirely manual- The planting and harvesting schedule
would be coordinated with outgrowers  operations to best meet the factory's
cane requirements. The cane would be burned before harvesting. The Nucleus
Estates Division would also implement the drainage component with the Depart-
ment's own staff and equipment.



- 27 -
5.08      The Outgrowers' Division of the Agricultural Department, organized
into four operational sections, would be responsible for executing the
outgrowers program. Upon indication of farmers' interest, the Division
would arrange for a soil survey through Government or private agencies 1/
and require neighboring farmers to form blocks of land of sufficient size for
efficient cane production (i.e., at least 10 ha) with assistance from the
Department's Research Staff Unit and its own Survey Unit. Individual contracts
would be established between each farmer and the Company. While farmers would
be required to clear their own land, the Outgrowers Division would arrange for
subsequent preparation of the land through the Department's Land Preparation
Unit (para. 5.06); provide seed cane, inputs and implements on credit; and
furnish full extension advice with regard to planting, weed and pest control
and trash disposal after harvesting. The Division would also arrange for cane
harvesting, transport and replanting. To minimize harvesting costs, the
Division's staff would investigate the possibility of permitting the burning
of outgrowers' cane under Company supervision on blocks of land where, in the
judgement of Company staff, cane fires would not pose any environmental risks.
The full cost of all services rendered by the Company, including interest at
commercial rates (i.e. 11% in 1977), would be deducted from farmers' proceeds
from the sale of sugarcane to the factory, based on a pre-determined cost
recovery schedule; farmers' accounts would be kept by the Company's Finance
and Administration Department (para. 5.10). The Company would establish and
maintain an Outgrowers Committee, the members of which would be representatives
of Government, the Company and outgrowers; the Committee would meet regularly
for the purpose of promoting harmonious cooperation among Government officials,
outgrowers and the Company. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the proposed outgrowers organization would be maintained during the
Company's initial five year period, except for changes approved by the Bank.
The Department's organization is shown in Chart World Bank - 16464.
The Factory Department
5.09      The Factory Department Manager would operate the factory through
three Divisions. The Engineering Division staff would be responsible for
mechanical processing of the cane through the cane yard and the milling and
boiler stations, and for providing civil construction, and electrical and
mechanical engineering services for the factory as a whole. The staff of
the Processing Division would supervise the extraction process from juice
clarification to the bagging of sugar, and be responsible for the Company's
water supply and effluent treatment. The staff of the Control Division,
reporting directly to the Factory Manager, would gather standard technical
data in the factory and perform analyses for quality control purposes.
The Factory Department's organization is shown in Chart World Bank - 16465.
The Finance and Administration Department
5.10      Headed by the Controller and organized into three Divisions, the
Assistant Controllers' and Budget Office and the Auditing Office, the staff of
1/   Although Government agencies would conduct soil surveys at no cost to
the Company, funds are provided under the Project for supplementary
surveys to be undertaken by private agencies, if necessary, to guarantee
timeliness of the surveys.



- 28 -
the Department would prepare operational and financial plans, keep financial
and other operational records, handle receipt and disbursement of funds, order
and manage materials and supplies, obtain all necessary insurance coverages,
arrange for financing, and continuously improve procedures to the benefit
of operational efficiency. It would also prepare, and furnish to the Kenya
Sugar Authority, information on the cost of cane production and on factory
margins for purposes of formulating pricing recommendations and periodically
determine the cost of Company services rendered to outgrowers and formulate a
plan for the full recovery of those costs upon delivery to the factory of
outgrowers' cane. Outgrowers' accounts with the Company would be administered
by the General Accounting Division. The Department's organization is depicted
in Chart World Bank - 16466.
The Personnel and Industrial Relations Department
5.11      The staff of the Department, under the Personnel and Industrial
Relations Manager, in addition to attending to standard personnel matters,
also would be responsible for security and safety matters, for supervising
the Company's health program and social activities, and for fostering good
relations with outgrowers. The Department's Training Officer would prepare
the Company's staff training program in cooperation with KSA's Training
Officer. The Department's organization is shown in Chart World Bank - 16467.
D.   Staffing
5.12      Of the Company's estimated 920 permanent employees, about 36 would
be recruited internationally and provided under the Management Agreement
(Annex 11). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Bank
would be consulted in the appointment or replacement of the General Manager,
the Controller, and the managers of the Agricultural Department, Factory
Department, and Personnel and Industrial Relations Department. The appoint-
ment of the General Manager, Controller and Agricultural Department Manager
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Local administrative and skilled
staff would be obtained through a country-wide recruitment effort; semi-skilled
and unskilled workers would be available in Nyanza and Western Provinces.
Training would be provided for about 320 Company employees (para. 4.15). The
intensive training program combined with advance hiring of selected staff, and
the initial placement of some unskilled but trainable personnel into positions
requiring minor skills would enable the Company to meet its staffing needs
without depleting the trained staff of existing sugar companies. The training
programs supported by the Project also would enable the Company to comply with
Government's requirements for replacing internationally recruited staff with
qualified Kenyans consistent with the need to maintain a sound management and
technical cadre in the Company.
5.13      The Project would provide 18 additional staff to the Kenya Sugar
Authority, of whom five senior staff would be internationally recruited in the



- 29 -
event no suitable local candidates were available. Assurances were obtained
that the Bank would be consulted in the appointment or replacement of KSA's
Planning Officer, Agronomist and Sugar Technologist. Of the 22 additional
staff provided to the National Sugar Research Institute, three would be
internationally recruited.   A recruitment period of one year has been allowed
in the evaluation for the internationally recruited staff of the National
Sugar Research Institute; all senior KSA staff would be employed by January 1,
1978 (para. 4.16).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Cane and Sugar Yields and Production
6.01      The average yield projections for nucleus estate and outgrowers
cane have been derived from the experience of Mumias and the Sugar Belt
companies, taking into account micro-climatic conditions in the Project
area and making adjustments based on experimental and practical results.
While pests and diseases are not expected to be a serious problem, recurrent
dry spells would have a depressing effect on yields; yield projections have
been adjusted on the assumption of a dry year occurring once in five years. A
system of one plant crop and two ratoon crops is recommended. The predominant
cane variety grown initially would be C0421. Preventive pest and disease
control measures would be investigated and variety trials expanded, and the
production system and variety recommendations would be altered in the light of
new results. The cane yield assumptions are:
Cutting                Estate Cane    Outgrowers Cane         Growing Period
=--------- (tons/ha) ---------            (Months)
Plant Crop                  125               88                 22 - 24
1st Ratoon                  107              75                  18 - 20
2nd Ratoon                   88               62                     18
Average per Cutting       107               75                     20
Average per Year           64               45
6.02      The cane/sugar ratio has varied greatly over the years and among
companies in Kenya; current extraction averages, for example, 9% at Chemelil
and 11% at Mumias. The Project's sugar projections are based on 10% extrac-
tion for the first five years of factory operation, and on 10.5% thereafter.
6.03      The production of cane and sugar for the Project, and with expansion
to an annual capacity of 90,000 tons, is estimated to develop as follows:



- 30 -
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
('000 tons)
With 2,000 TCD
Installed Capacity
Cane Production
Nucleus Estate                114   163    194    163    114    176    163
Outgrowers                    132   188    257    396    422    422    422
Total                246   351    451    559    536    598    585
Sugar Production                 25    35      45      56     54      63      61
With Expansion to 3,000
TCD Installed Capacity
Cane Production
Nucleus Estate                114    163    194    163    114    176   163
Outgrowers                    132    188    257    396    422    534   600
Total               246    351    451    559    536    710   763
Sugar Production /1             25    35       45      56     54      75    80
/1   The full development level of 90,000 t would be reached in 1988.
These production estimates are based on the assumption of 265-300 milling
days per year, which is consistent with the performance of similar sugar
factories elsewhere in East Africa.
Markets
6.04      With an annual growth in per capita consumption of 3.5-4.5% after
1977 and a projected population of 18.6 million in 1985, total consumption
of sugar would reach 327,000-355,000 tons by 1985. The production of estab-
lished areas, with the minor improvements currently being implemented, would
stabilize around 189,000 tons per year after 1979, thus creating domestic
deficits amounting to 138,000-166,000 tons in 1985. Taking the South Nyanza
project alone, the effect would be to reduce these deficits. Other sugar
projects (para. 1.02) together with South Nyanza would eliminate the deficits
and, it is estimated, eventually produce a temporary surplus. It is uncertain,
lowever, to what extent actual performance under these projects would result
in the projected output; under the most favorable assumptions, Kenya's total
sugar production would increase to 460,000 tons by 1985 (Annex 4). Although
South Nyanza's cost of production would be very close to or above export
parity (not import parity) it may be that other producers would be able to
compete in international trade. In view of the uncertainties surrounding pro-
jected industry production it has been assumed in the evaluation that the
Project's output would replace imports. It was agreed at negotiations that
Government would keep the proiected productioni and consumption of sugar in
Kenya under continuous review, and that the Bank would be informed annually
of the results of that review and of Government's plans to market all sugar
produced in Kenya and to invest in substantial additional sugar milling
facilities over the three-year period fcllowing the review.



- 31 -
Prices
6.05      The world market price of sugar for 1980, expressed in March, 1977
constant dollar terms, is projected at 15.2 USJ/lb., raw f.o.b. Caribbean,
compared with 31.1 US/lb. in 1974, 22.1 USJ/lb. in 1975, and 14.0 USJ/lb. in
the first half of 1976 (Annex 19). The average realized import price of
refined sugar for 1975-76 was KShs. 3,489/t (US/lb. 19.1), landed in Mombasa;
the projected price for 1980 and thereafter is KShs. 4,076/t (USU/lb. 22.3),
expressed in March, 1977 constant terms. The evaluation of the Project is
based on these import substitution prices. Molasses could be exported at
prices of KShs. 350/t f.o.b. Mombasa; funds for the transport of molasses
have been included in the Project cost estimates.
6.06      The price paid at the factories for sugar was KShs. 2,300/t in 1976,
compared with KShs. 1,860/t in 1975 and KShs. 1,230/t in 1974. Assuming a
cane/sugar ratio of 10:1, the factories' gross margin in 1976 was KShs. 1,250/t.
KSA is proposing a factory price of KShs. 2,900/t for 1977, implying a factory
margin of KShs. 1,400/t. The evaluation is based on a factory price of
KShs. 3,050/t from 1980 onwards, which is not inconsistent with Government's
long-term pricing policy. The margin and operating costs of the factories
would be reviewed, and factory prices adjusted annually (para. 6.08).
6.07      The price of sugarcane, at factory gate, was KShs. 105/t in 1976,
KShs. 92/t in 1975 and KShs. 62/t in 1974. The 1976 farm gate price in the
Sugar Belt, i.e., net of transport and cooperative charges was around
KShs. 70-78/t. After deducting cash outlays for production, farmers' net
returns to labor and land were in many instances reduced to disincentive
levels, contributing to the cane shortage in the Sugar Belt. To provide
greater incentives to farmers, KSA is proposing an increase to KShs. 150/t in
1977. Based on the Project's financial analysis, a price of about KShs. 155/t
(i.e. effective from 1979) would be desirable (Annex 20). Government is
expected to adopt a price of only KShs. 132/t for 1977 and it was agreed at
negotiations that the 1977 price would be fully adjusted for inflation in 1978
and 1979, and that an incentive margin of at least 6% would be added after
adjustment for inflation in each of those years.
6.08      The retail price of sugar was raised sharply to KShs. 4.50/kg
in 1976 from KShs. 3.50/kg in 1975 and KShs. 2.40/kg in 1974, with the effect
of depressing per capita demand for sugar from about 17.6 kg in 1974 to below
13.0 kg in 1976. To keep import requirements for sugar in the near future at
a minimum, Government intends to set retail prices at levels which would
allow the consumption of sugar to expand only at the same rate as domestic
production. If self-sufficiency were achieved in the early 1980's with
an annual increase in per capita consumption of 3.5-4.5% (para. 6.04), which
would be reasonable, and production continued to increase more rapidly tor a
few years, a price policy would have to be designed in accordance with the
prevailing world market situation. Should exports become possible, the retail
price could be kept relatively high to facilitate the accumulation of export-
able surpluses. If exports were not profitable, domestic consumption could be
further stimulated by reducing the excise tax on sugar and, thus, lowering



- 32 -
the retail price. A reduction in the retail price could not result in a
reduction in the ex-factory price, however, if this would effect the financial
viability of the sugar companies. Another alternative would be to maintain a
relatively high retail price and generate a sufficient equalization fund to
subsidize exports if necessary. Limited export subsidies could be justified
on economic grounds as Kenya's overvalued currency reduces the competitiveness
of the country's products in export markets (para. 7.03). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would review the prices of sugarcane
and sugar annually and submit to the Bank a report on the outcome of the
review.
Company Financial Results (Annex 20)
6.09      With the initial factory capacity of 2,000 TCD, the Company would
reach full production levels in Year 9. Annual operating profits would be
achieved from Year 6 onwards, but because of heavy pre-production expendi-
tures and debt service obligations, the Company would not produce surpluses
and pay dividends before Year 11. The financial rate of return on invest-
ments would be 11%.
6.10      Expansion of the factory to 3,000 TCD and additional agricultural
development to achieve an annual sugar production of 90,000 t would cost
KShs. 93 million (US$ 11.2 million) and require additional short-term loan
financing of about KShs. 22 million (US$2.7 million) in Year 6; full produc-
tion would be achieved in Year 12. The Company's ratio of long-term debt to
equity would increase from 58:42 in Year 1 to 64:36 in Year 5, then decline
to 50:50 in Year 9 and to 25:75 in year 15. With full production, annual
net income after taxes would amount to 17% of revenue, and 24% of equity;
the first dividends would be paid in Year 10. With expansion to 3,000 TCD
and the assumed prices (para. 6.06), the internal financial rate of return
on investments would be 13%. The rate of return would be 10% if sugar prices
declined by 10%, and 12% if capital cost increased by 10%.
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange (Annex 20)
6.11       As a result of Government's equity participation in the Company
(para. 4.21), its direct investments under the Project and debt service,
there would arise a net claim on the national budget in each of the first
three Project years, amounting to KShs. 92 million (US$11.1 million) on a
cumulative basis by the end of Year 3. From Year 4 onwards, there is a
possibility of generating Government revenues through the sugar excise tax,
the magnitude of which would depend on market conditions for sugar and,
consequently, Government's price policy (para. 6.08). With the present excise
tax of KShs. 1,000/t, the Project would make a net annual contribution to the
budget from Project Year 4 onwards. Expressed in constant Year 5 (1981) prices,
Government's annual net revenue from the Project would remain modest during
Years 4 to 9, averaging about KShs. 30 million (US$3.6 million); it would
then increase sharply in Year 10 and reach KShs. 149 million (US$18.0 million)
in Year 16, excluding Company profits or KShs. 212 million (US$25.6 million)
including Company profits. Foreign exchange outflows would exceed inflows



- 33 -
in three of the first five years of the Project, producing a foreign ex-
change deficit for the whole five-year period of KShs. 103 million
(US$12.4 million); thereafter, the annual foreign exchange deficit would
be about KShs. 208 million (US$25.1 million) in Year 6, then decline
gradually and amount to KShs. 120 million (US$14.5 million) in Year 16.
However, there would be foreign exchange savings as the sugar produced as
a result of the Project would substitute for imports. Based on the assumed
prices (para. 6.05) the overall net foreign exchange savings effect of the
Project is estimated at KShs. 217 million (US$26.2 million) for the first
five-year period as a whole. The annual net savings effect would be KShs. 41
million (US$4.9 million) in Year 6 and increase to KShs. 375 million (US$45.2
million) in Year 16 (expressed in Year 5 (1981) prices). Expressed in constant
1977 prices, net foreign exchange savings at full development in Year 12 would
be KShs. 210 million (US$25 million).
Farmer Benefits (Annex 20)
6.12      The outgrowers' budget for sugarcane indicates that the price
paid to farmers for sugarcane would have to be raised significantly to provide
sufficient incentives for production, especially since farmers would get only
three harvests in five years (para. 6.07). To make cane production more
attractive to farmers, in addition to raising the price of sugarcane, the
Company would provide all services and inputs on credit. Assuming a cane
price of KShs. 155/t and a sugarcane area per farm family of 2.0 ha, the
average increase in annual farmer income at full development would be KShs.
3,055 (US$368); it would be negative every fifth year and average KShs.
3,931 (US$474) in the intervening four years. On a per capita basis, average
incomes would increase from KShs. 244 (US$29) to KShs. 681 (US$82). This
compares with an average national GDP per capita of KShs. 1,573 (US$210) in
1975. Farmers' income risks would be minimized by not requiring any cash
contributions from farmers (at least initially), and rescheduling the repayment
of credit in the event of crop failures; intercropping in the first year after
planting of sugarcane would reduce the Project's potentially adverse effect
on subsistence production.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
(Annex 21)
7.01      The primary direct benefits of the Project would be increased
production of sugar and a resultant reduction of sugar imports. While,
with present levels of taxation and as the majority-owner of the Company,
Government would be the predominant beneficiary from the Project, signifi-
cant benefits also would be derived by the approximately 4,000 persons
gaining employment under the Project, and by some 7,900 outgrower farmers
whose incomes would be increased.
7.02      The Project's internal economic rate of return is estimated to be
25% over a 25-year period. All Project costs except 25% of the costs of roads
and tracks and 85% of the costs of the Kenya Sugar Authority, the National



- 34 -
Sugar Research Institute, and training not directly related to the Company
have been included in the calculation. All non-farm family labor has been
fully costed at market wage rates; farm family labor has been shadow-priced
at 55% of market wage rates. To account for some loss in agricultural pro-
duction resulting from the planting of sugarcane under the Project, the net
value of production foregone on an area equivalent to about 40% of the cane
area has been included as an economic cost. The value of the Project's
incremental sugar output is based on import parity prices as the entire output
would substitute for sugar imports; molasses has been valued on the basis of
export-parity prices. Foreign exchange costs and benefits are valued at
KShs. 11.00 = US$1.00 to reflect the economic costs of foreign exchange to
Kenya; if foreign exchange were valued at the prevailing exchange rate of
KShs. 8.30 = US$1.00, the rate of return would be 23%.
7.03      The risks most likely to effect the Project's economic rate of
return are the uncertainties surrounding the availability of sugarcane for
the factory. Shortfalls below expectations could result from the occurance
of more frequent or more severe droughts in the Project area than antici-
pated, or from difficulties in relations between the Company and its out-
grower farmers. The drought risk, which would become apparent before the
planned expansion from 60,000 t to 90,000 t annual capacity in Years 6-8,
could be alleviated by foregoing that expansion and producing sugarcane only
within a shorter distance from the factory and only on the very best soils to
cushion the drought impact on farmers' incomes through higher yields and
through higher farm gate prices resulting from transport savings; and by
providing supplementary irrigation in selected areas. The financial risk to
the Company as a result of an early or very severe drought would not be
critical as the proposed financial structure of the Company (para. 6.10) would
provide for extra borrowing capacity to meet exceptional needs. To minimize
the risk associated with outgrowers' cane supply, a suitable incentive price
policy would be pursued by Government, and an organizational structure is
proposed under the Project which incorporates experience gained in the Sugar
Belt and at Mumias. Nevertheless, even if incremental output or import
substitution prices were 20% below expectation, the Project would still show a
rate of return of 20%; without expansion beyond the initial 60,000 t annual
capacity, the rate of return would be 23%. Another risk for the Project would
be the production of sugar surpluses as a result of three other sugar projects
that are likely to be implemented concurrently, and the possibility that the
cost of production under the Project could exceed the prevailing export price
of sugar. However, this risk appears less severe for the industry as a whole
as other sugar companies might still be able to export profitably at prices
which would make exports unprofitable for the South Nyanza Sugar Company.
Furthermore, Kenya's overvalued currency adversely affects the country's
competitiveness in export markets; hence, exports could be promoted through
devaluation or a subsidy to producers. That exports would be economically
feasible (though might entail a financial subsidy to the industry) is reflected
in the economic rate of return based on export parity prices which would be
19% (16% without expansion to 90,000 t annual capacity).



- 35 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) the preparation of a plan for the improvement of the sugar
distribution system and of sugar marketing in Kenya by
December 31, 1978 (para. 2.24);
(b) the orderly resettlement of farmers displaced by the nucleus
estate (para. 4.05);
(c) the appointment of engineering consultants (para. 4.11) and
architects (para. 4.12) under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank;
(d) the preparation of a comprehensive national sugar research
program by July 1, 1978 (para. 4.14);
(e) the preparation of a sugar industry training program by
December 31, 1978 (para. 4.15);
(f) the employment of all senior staff of the Kenya Sugar Authority
by January 1, 1978 (para. 4.16);
(g) the preparation of a future financing plan for the Kenya Sugar
Authority by July 1, 1979 (para. 4.16);
(h) the appointment of a consultant or firm of consultants satis-
factory to the Bank to monitor the performance in construction
under the factory turnkey contract by October 15, 1977 (para. 5.04);
(i) the appointment, in consultation with the Bank, of key staff of
the Company (para. 5.12) and the Kenya Sugar Authority (para. 5.13);
(j) the continuous review by Government of the production and consump-
tion of sugar in Kenya, and the reporting to the Bank of the
results of the review and of plans to market all sugar produced
in Kenya and to invest in additional sugar milling facilities
(para. 6.04);
(k) the adjustment of the price of sugarcane for the years 1978 and
1979 (para. 6.07), and the annual review by Government of the
prices of sugarcane and sugar and the reporting to the Bank of
the results of the review (para. 6.08).



- 36 -
8.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  that the Government had taken all actions necessary to expand
the membership of KSA and to authorize it to carry out its
newly enlarged functions (para. 4.16);
(b)  an agreement satisfactory to the Bank covering the financing
terms between Government and the Company had been executed
(para. 4.20);
(c)  that evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the availability
of the loans of the European Investment Bank and the African
Development Bank had been provided (para. 4.22);
(d)  a share subscription agreement satisfactory to the Bank between
the Company and Mehta had been entered into (para. 4.22);
(e)  the Company's General Manager, Controller and Agricultural
Department Manager had been appointed (para. 5.12).
8.03      The Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$25.0 million for
20 years, including a grace period of 4.5 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.        Agriculture, forestry and fishing comprise the largest sector of
the economy, contributing about KShs. 6.3 billion, or 30% of the Gross Domes-
tic Product (GDP) in 1975. Between 1964 and 1974, subsistence agriculture,
according to the National Accounts Statistics, expanded at an annual rate of
3.6%, while commercial agriculture grew at a rate of 5.3% per year and the
economy as a whole at 7.1%. In the wake of the world-wide recession, annual
growth rates in 1975 slowed to 0.7% for the economy as a whole and 0.4% for
subsistence agriculture; commercial agriculture declined by 1.0% (Table 1).
2.        Agriculture also accounts for about 70% of total exports.  Agricul-
tural exports increased from KShs. 2,020 million in 1965 to KShs. 4,540 mil-
lion in 1975. The major export commodities in 1975 were coffee (KShs. 704
million), tea (KShs. 458 million), sisal (KShs. 146 million), and meat and
meat products (KShs. 100 million); other major foreign exchange earners were
dairy products, pyrethrum and hides and skins (Table 2). Against these ex-
ports were agricultural imports, aggravating the already serious balance of
payments problem; imports of food amounted to KShs. 264 million and of edible
oils and fats to KShs. 152 million.
3.        Forty-two million ha, or about 73% of Kenya's total land area of 58
million ha has moderate or better agricultural or range potential. Eleven
million ha, or about 20% of the land area, is of medium or high agricultural
potential. The other areas have limited livestock potential, partly due to
tsetse fly infestation. Approximately 2.7 million ha is under large farms.
Wheat, sisal and maize are the predominant cash crops on large farms by area,
followed by sugarcane, coffee and tea. Smallholders' major subsistence food
crops are maize, sorghum, millet, pulses and bananas. Cash crops are also
grown by smallholders, especially tea, cotton, coffee, cashewnut and sugarcane.
Irrigation development has been of relatively minor importance
to date, but increased emphasis is now being given to more fully utilize
the country's limited potential. About 160,000 ha have been identified as
suitable for new large-scale irrigation.
4.        Marketed production of crops has been fluctuating considerably
in recent years. For the period 1970-75, no discernable trend was apparent
for rice and cotton production. Wheat production followed a down-trend,
while maize, coffee and tea increased. Sisal production fluctuated over
100% during the 5-year period. The production of sugarcane is reported to
have varied by 80%, increasing from the period's low in 1972 to a record high
level of 1.9 million tons in 1974 (Table 3). In terms of farmgate value of
marketed production in 1975, coffee ranked highest (KShs. 661 million),
followed by tea (KShs. 413 million), maize (KShs. 325 million), and cattle
(KShs. 373 million). Sugarcane was valued at KShs. 165 million. The esti-
mated total gross farm revenue was KShs. 3,005 million in 1975 (Table 4).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        In order to counteract the adverse effects of recent external
economic changes, the Government has developed a restructuring policy which,
in the agricultural sector, aims at icreasing domestic food production,
substituting domestic products for imports, and increasing exports. The
sector is to play an even larger role than before in absorbing labor and
maintaining incomes and consumption. Agricultural investments are seen as
producing relatively high returns, contributing to a more even regional
distribution of development, and as promising with respect to generating a
significant rural impact. In support of this policy, Government intends
to offer adequate price incentives to farmers, increase the share of the
development budget allocated to agriculture, and make the necessary organi-
zational changes within Government to improve administrative efficiency. The
development of smallholder agriculture is to play a key role and efforts are
underway to overcome major obstacles such as the large number of farmers
involved, the remoteness and marginal quality of some of the land, and the
need to increase the productivity of subsistence crops in order to release
land for the production of cash crops.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT, 1964, 1970, 1972-75
(Kenya Pounds Million) 1/
AT CURRENT PRICES                              1964 2/    1970 2/    1972          1973        1974        1975 3/
A. Outside Monetary Economy
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing        75.6        95.4       115.8        120.9       137.0       179.5
Building and Construction                 5.8         9.6        11.7         13.7        14.7        15.6
Water                                     2.1          4.2         5.0         5.2         5.3         5.5
Ownerships of Dwellings                   5.5        10.4        14.1         16.7        18.7        20.2
Subtotal            89.0       119.6       146.6        156.5       175.7       220.9
B. Monetary Economy
1. Enterprises and Non-project Industries
Agriculture                          53.1        72.3        94.4       107.4       123.1       128.9
Forestry                              1.9         3.8         3.6         4.3         5.4         5.7
Fishing                               0.9         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.5         1.7
Mining and Quarrying                  1.5         2.4         2.2         3.2         3.1          3.5
Manufacturing                        34.2        62.1        82.1        97.8       125.9       149.2
Electricity and Water                 4.8         7.8         8.9         9.3        10.4        12.2
Building and Construction             6.8        16.8        35.7        38.7        43.4        45.5
Whole, Retail Trade,
Restaurants and Hotels             33.0        48.7        66.3        80.5       115.9       120.3
Transport, Storage and
Communications                     24.5        40.8        39.6        46.1        55.7        60.6
Finance, Insurance, Real
Estate and Business Services        9.9        21.1        31.4        36.8        46.8        55.0
Ownership of Dwellings               13.3        21.6        27.2        30.2        35.4        46.0
Other Services                       11.9        20.1        14.7        17.3        22.1        25.0
Subtotal           195.7       318.7       407.4       473.0        588.7       653.7
2. Private Households (Domestic
Services)                             2.9         4.1         5.1         6.2         7.3         8.9
3.  Government Services                    42.5        76.5       107.2       113.6        136.0       158.6
Total Product Monetary Economy        241.1       399.3       519.7       592.7       731.9       821.2
Total Gross Product at Factor Cost             330.1       518.9       666.2       749.2       907.6    1,042.0
Total Gross Product at Market Prices           356.6       572.6       730.0       838.0    1,029.5    1,180.9
Annual Rate of Growth (Percent)                                                 14.8        22.9        14.7
AT CONSTANT 1972 PRICES
Total Gross Product at Factor Cost             330.1 4/   485.1 4/   666.2         703.3       732.0       737.2
Annual Rate of Growth (Percent)                                                  5.6         4.1         0.7
1/ One Kenya Pound equals KShs. 20.
2/ Unrevised.
3/ Provisional estimate.
4/ Expressed in 1964 prices.
Sources: Kenya, Economic Survey, 1976
September 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SELECTED NET IMPORTS AND PRINCIPAL EXPORTS, 1970-75
(KShs. Million)
A. IMPORTS
Motor      Agricultural                                      Fabrics of   Paper &
Crude     Vehicles &    Machinery     Industrial   Iron &    Fabrics      Synthetic    Paper      Pharmaceutical
Year        Petroleum     Chassis     & Tractors      Machinery    Steel   of Cotton     Fibers      Products      Products      Fertilizers
1970           220.5       229.5         48.4            448.3    180.1      20.0         77.0        133.0          54.0           6o.8
1971           226.0       333.5         60.1            599.4     226.2     23 5         75 5        166.3          65.8            61.3
1972           291.7       269.8         65.3            681.7     203.3     15.4         69.8        154.0          71.8           74,9
1973           351.1       229.3         60.6            777.2     288.2     12.4        135.0        203.4          78.9            86.6
1974         1,340.5       444.5         65.7            809.6     539.2     25.4        165.1        349.9         130.9           305.4
1975         1,736,4       432.8        125 3          1,122.6     289.6     13.7        107.8        215.8         131.7          227.0
B. EXPORTS                                                                                                       Manufactured Goods i"
Meat and      Hides and      Soda   Wattle  Petroleum
Year/Quarter     Coffee         Sisal            Tea         Pyrethrum       Products         Skins         Ash   Extract   Products  Other
1970              445.2          37.0          254.1            43.3           57.1            33.1        33.5     22.8     163.5    122.2
1971              390.6          30.3          237.5            66.6           73.2            48.8        37.2     24.1      117.4    150.9
1972              495.4          41.4           328.3           91.4           97.5            75.5        38.7     33.7      178.8    154.9
1973              715.4          95.5          339.3            73.2           75.2           103.7        56.3     24.3      189.8   228.5
1974              767.7         337.8          387.3           113.0           90.4            88.8        54.1    28.7      536.7    342.4
1975              704.0         146.0          458.0            n.a.          100.0            n.a.        n.a.     n.a.       n.a.     n.a.
1975
1st Qr.         158.7          52.5          14o.5            26.8           27.7            24.0        24.8      8.8      176.6     91.6
2nd Qr.         175.4          36.6           79.1            20.9           19.4            25.8        10.6      7.1      174.8    88.1
3rd Qr.         155.3          31.8           94.6            23.6           22.2            24.2         9.4     12.8       82.8     82.0
j  Manufactured goods include S.I.T.C. Sections 5-8 and Petroleum Products.
Source: E.A. Customs and Excise Department.
Se  H
September 30, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 3
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
MARKETED PRODUCTION OF PRINCIPAL CROPS, 1970-75
('000 Tons)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975 1/
Wheat                    221.5      205.7     164.4      124.6      172.3      158.0
Maize 2/                 205.7      256.6     373.0      440.8      365.4      487.8
Rice Paddy                28.5       30.0       33.8      36.1       33.2       31.6
Pyrethrum Extract          0.1        0.1        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2
Sugarcane 3/          1,451.2   1,378.0   1,062.3   1,545.1   1,913.8   1,842.0
Seed Cotton               14.0      16.8       17.0       16.2       15.0       16.1
Clean Coffee              58.3       59.5      62.0       71.2       70.1       66.2
Sisal                     43.9      44.8       41.2       58.1       86.5       43.6
Tea                       41.1       36.3       53.5      56.6       53.4       56.7
1/ Forecast based on data available for two quarters of 1975.
2/ Deliveries to the Marketing Board only.
3/ Only including cane delivered to sugar factories.
Source: Kenya Statistical Abstract, 1975
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 4
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
GROSS FARM REVENUI. 1970 - 75
(KShs. Million)
1970      1971      1972       1973      1974      1975
CEREALS
Wheat                                         99.9     104.1       83.2      77.3     140.2      161.4
Maize                                         56.6      85.5      14r,.o    171.4     169.6      325.1-
Barley                                         7.8       8.7        9.5      19.5      23.0       33.0
Rice                                          14-5      14.5       17.2      18.1      19.5       33.0
Other Cereals                                  1.2       2.0        4.1       3-)       2.8        3.3
Subtotal                               180.0     214.9     259.1      289.8     355.1     555.8
TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL CROPS
Pineapples                                     4.8       5.9        6.5       8.2       7.7       12.1
Castor and Other Oil Seeds                    11.1       8.o        5.4       4.7       9.9       12.0
Pyrethrum                                     29.5      48.5       73.2      65.2      84.9       89.7
Sugarcane                                     70.2      69.1      60.8       89.1     118.3      164.6
Cotton                                        13 9      17.6       19.6      19.7      23.3       31.2
Tobacco                                        0.7       o.6        o.6       o.6       0.7        1.7
Subtotal                               130.3     149.6     166.2      187.4     244.8     311.3
OTHER TEMPORARY CROPS
Pulses                                         4.7       6.1       15.1       8.3      20.5       22.6
Potatoes                                      25.3      33.0       34.5      31.0      34.1       37.5
Other Temporary Crops                         24,9      30.1      35.5       31.9      35.1       38.6
Subtotal                               59.9       69.9      85.0      71.3       89.8      98.9
PERMANENT CROPS
Coffee                                       436.3     378.4      483.3     655.4     689.5      661.2
Sisal                                         34.3      30.4       37.2     141.0     367.0      139.0
Tea                                          276.8     236.1      320.7     335.3     385.1      413.2
Coconuts and Products                         10.4      10.9       11.4      10.3      10.8       11.9
Wattle                                         8.4       8.5       10.6       9.4       9.4        8.o
Cashew Nuts                                   23 7      18.9      12.8       17.2      19.2      21.1
Fruit and Other Permanent Crops               14.9      20.5      21.6      19.4       21.4      23-5
Subtotal                              804.8     703.6      897.6   1,188 1   1,302.4   1,277.8
Total Crops                          1,170.0   1,138.1   1,407.8   1,736.6   2.192.1   2,243.7
LIVESTOCK AND PRODUCTS
Cattle and Calves for Slaughter              266,5     266.6      330.2     327.1    352.2      373.3
Sheep, Goats and Lambs for Slaughter           9,5      14.7      16.5       15.9      22.7      27.5
Pigs for Slaughter                            15.       11.9      12.6       13,0      14.6       16.5
Poultry and Eggs                              20.0      20.6      24.1       27.2      22.1      21.9
Wool                                           6.9       4.4        4.1      10.1       9.6        4.7
Hides and Skins                               12.1      16.8       23.4      24.1      26.0      26.5
Dsiry Products                               136.1     186.0     217.8      226.1     202.0     196.5
Total                                  466.1     521.0     628.8      643,3     649.1     666.8
Fnrecorded Marketed Production                   71.9      74.8       82.0      86.o      92.0       94.3
Gross Farm Revenue                            1,707.9   1,733.9   2,118.6   2,466.1   2,933.2   3,oo4.8
1   Provisional.
2   Forecast based on data available for the first three quarters of 1975.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
HISTORY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
Early Development
1.        The Kenya sugar industry has its origins in the establishment in
the 1920s of two privately-owned factories, one in Ramisi, Coast Province,
and another in Miwani, Nyanza Province. No new mills were added during the
following four decades, and the country depended primarily on sugar imports
to meet its increasing domestic requirements. Imports for the twelve years
1955-66, for example, amounted to an annual average of 59,000 tons, about
twice as much as domestic annual average production of mill-white sugar of
28,900 tons for the same period. The so-called "mill-white" sugar produced
in Kenya is a "sulfitation" sugar, the color of which is much darker than
that of lustrous white crystal sugar. Kenya's sugar does not conform with
Grade "B" sugar in the World Health Organization standards in terms of color
even though Government policy defines this as the official industry standard.
However, the quality in terms of its nutritional content is the same and is
acceptable for Kenya household consumption.
2.        Sugarcane is also produced in areas without sugar factories,
primarily for processing in "jaggery" factories. Jaggery is a form of dark-
brown sugar in solid form which is produced by a crude method of boiling
mechanically extracted cane juice and solidifying the concentrate into molds
by cooling. There were some 83 factory units producing an estimated 12,500
tons of jaggery in 1965, mainly for fermentation into "waragi," an illicit
and medically dangerous alcoholic drink. Current production is believed to
be somewhat higher. With the establishment of a sugar factory in an area,
jaggery factories are required by the Government to cease operations.
Expansion in the Sugar Belt and Other Areas
3.        Beginning in 1966, the Government of Kenya embarked on an expan-
sion program designed to attain eventual self-sufficiency in sugar produc-
tion and, at the same time, increase income opportunities for small farmers.
Two Government majority-owned mills were established in Muhoroni (1966) and
Chemelil (1968), both in the Nyanza Province Sugar Belt, which also includes
Miwani. An additional Goverment-owned factory was commissioned in 1973, in
Mumias, Western Province, thereby opening up a new area for commercial cane-
growing.
4.        Sugarcane for mill-white sugar production is presently grown on
about 50,400 hectares, with a large portion being supplied by small and some
large-holding independent farmers. Except for Muhoroni, all of the factories
have their own nucleus estates which account for 20-33% of the factories' cane
supply; only Ramisi obtains up to 75% of its cane supply from its own nucleus
estate. The origin of total cane supply is as indicated below.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Distribution of Cane Supply, 1975
Nucleus Estate        Outgrowers
(Percent)
Mumias                              33                    67
Chemelil                            20                    80
Muhoroni                            20 1/                 80
Miwani                              33                    67
Ramisi                              75                    25
Average (Simple)                  36                    64
Average (Weighted)                30                    70
1/   From Nyando Estate which is privately owned but currently in the process
of being acquired by the Muhoroni Company.
Source: Kenya Sugar Authority
5.        With the present five factories, the country's total annual process-
ing capacity is rated at 285,000 tons of mill-white sugar. However, the
actual production in 1975 reached only a level of about 161,000 tons, 44%
below the rated capacity of the mills. Individual capacities and utilization
rates are as follows:
Estimated Factory Capacities and Utilization, 1975
Annual Capacity of    Daily Cane             Actual        Utilization
Mill-white Sugar  Crushing Capacity  Sugar Production    Rate
(Tons)            (Tons)              (Tons)         (Percent)
Mumias 1/           70,000             2,750               57,500            82
Chemelil            65,000             1,900               40,000            62
Muhoroni            60,000              1,800              27,000            45
Miwani              60,000              1,800              28,000            47
Ramisi              30,000              1,600               8,500            28
Total         285,000             9,850              161,000            56
1/   The initial capacity of 45,000 t/year (1,760 TCD) was expanded to 76,000
t/year in June, 1976.
Souce: Economic Planning Division, Ministry of Agriculture



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.        The low plant utilization rates of the factories are reflected in
their operating results as indicated below:
Sugar Factories' Net Income (Losses), 1972-75
(KShs. '000)
1972             1973             1974             1975
Mumias (Before Tax)   --               3,062            15,043           27,700
Chemelil              (n.a.)          (25,473)         (19,452)          (3,192)
Muhoroni               (n.a.)           2,029              129              267
Miwani                 (n.a.)           (n.a.)           (n.a.)           (n.a.)
Ramisi               (3,481)           (1,589)            (923)          (1,519)
Source:  Tate and Lyle Technical Services, Ltd. Kenya Sugar Expansion Study;
and 1975 annual reports.
7.        Plant utilization has been generally poor in most factories because
of inadequate supply of cane which has been irregular and insufficient,
mostly due to low cane yields, badly organized harvesting, and inefficient
cane transport systems and facilities. Cane in various outgrowers areas
overmatured and, at times, remained unharvested. Field management standards
are generally low and there seems to be inadequate effective encouragement
and assistance to farmers for improving cane quality and productivity. These
problems are recognized and some initial steps have been taken by various
organizations to correct them. M4umias and Chemelil, and to a much lesser
extent also Miwani, have been increasingly providing active assistance to
farmers to improve agricultural practices and have helped in organizing
systems for havesting and transporting of cane to the factories; success has
been varied. Cooperatives and the Land Settlement Organization also have
been intensifying their assistance programs for their members. However,
with the exception of Hlumias, these organizations' efforts have started from
a very low base and been greatly hampered by financial and managerial con-
straints. To coordinate the activities of all organizations concerned, and
to concentrate major responsibilities for the development of the sugar indus-
try into a single body, Government created the Kenya Sugar Authority in 1972
(Annex 3).
Recent Development and Future Plans
8.        In view of the poor performance of the existing industry and Gov-
ernment's plans for rapid expansion, the World Bank, in 1974, suggested that
a thorough study be made of the sugar industry before new project proposals
are finalized. The Government agreed to this and a study was carried out
with UNDP financial assistance, which encompassed a review of industry or-
ganization and performance and a proposal for rehabilitation of the Sugar



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Belt area. 1/ The rehabilitation project, including Miwani, Chemelil,
Muhoroni and Ramisi, would increase annual sugar production by about 70,000
tons and consist of a regional drainage component, and improvements in
agricultural practices, factory equipment, and the companies' structure and
organization. In addition to the rehabilitation project, which is given high
priority by Government, two new factories either are being proposed, i.e.
South Nyanza, or constructed, i.e. Nzoia, now in its early stage of develop-
ment with a planned capacity of about 60,000 tons. The Mumias factory, after
expansion to 76,000 tons from its previous rated capacity of 45,000 tons, is
expected to be extended further to 156,000 tons.
9.        After rehabilitation of the older factories, establishment of the
Nzoia and South Nyanza factories, and the expansion of Mumias, all of which
are scheduled to be completed within the next 5-10 years, Government plans to
implement several more projects in the following decade. These tentatively
identified future projects are in the vicinity of Busia, the Kano Plain, Tana
River, Yala Swamp, Meru and Embu. The final implementation schedule will have
to be determined on the basis of available resources, financial and economic
viability, and developments in the domestic and world markets for sugar.
December 30, 1976
1/   Tate and Lyle Technical Services, Ltd., Kenya Sugar Industry Expansion
Study, Vol. I-IV, September 1975, Vol. V-VI (Sugar Belt Improvement
Project), May 1976.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
EXISTING STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
A. Introduction
1.        The present structure of the industry is generally characterized by
a proliferation of numerous agencies involved in various industry development
activities with an apparent lack of coordination among them. With barely ten
years since the Government's active involvement in sugar industry development
(Annex 2), the organization reflects an early stage of its evolution process
under public auspices. The differences in the organizational relationships
among the factories, nucleus estates, and outgrowers in Muhoroni, Chemelil and
Mumias illustrate the industry's search for workable arrangements to achieve
increased productivity. The existing organization of the sugar industry at
the national and company levels is shown in Chart World Bank 16460.
B. Institutions Affecting the Industry
The Ministry of Agriculture
2.        The Ministry has overall responsibility for sugar industry devel-
opment; it formulates and implements national policies and programs. Its
major instrument to carry out this mandate is the Kenya Sugar Authority
(para. 20). Through its representation on the Boards of Muhoroni, Chemelil
and Mumias, where Government has substantial investments, the Ministry of
Agriculture, together with other Government representatives, exercises man-
agement control and direction over the operations of a major part of the
industry.
3.        There are two technical divisions in the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Crops Division and the Extension and Training Division. Each province has
a Provincial Director of Agriculture with District Agricultural Officers
stationed in each district to handle agricultural extension work. At the
Ministry's farmers' training centers, the training of farmers for improving
agricultural practices covers most crops, except sugarcane. Practically no
extension services are provided directly to cane growers through the Ministry
of Agriculture although, recently, some extension staff ha're been transferred
to the Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU) by the Director of Agriculture in
Nyanza Province (para. 31). No extension services are provided to farmers
growing cane for jaggery production.
4.        In 1971, the Ministry of Agriculture established the Kibos National
Sugar Research Station in the Sugar Belt. This station has since been devot-
ing about 80% of its time to cane variety experimentation, the rest to fer-
tilizer trials and soil improvement experiments. Apart from three herbicide
trials at the main station, one ratoon stunting disease trial at Mumias, and
one nitrogen rates trial at Rodi in South Nyanza, there were no new research



ANNEX 3
Page 2
programs undertaken since 1974, reportedly because of inadequate research and
technical staff. The research methods applied are poor, and after five years
of its existence, nothing so far had been developed that would be of signifi-
cance to the sugar industry. With a present staffing of 76, of which 6 are
senior research officers with 24 technical assistants, better results could
be expected from this station with proper management and guidance (Annexes 6
and 8).
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (The Treasury).
5.        This Ministry is concerned with the development strategy for the
industry as it relates to the overall national development effort, particu-
larly with respect to commitments of Government funds and foreign exchange,
and is involved in the financial planning and negotiations for new projects
to assure that project financing conforms with established fiscal policies.
It also participates in the determination of sugar prices, imposes taxes on
sugar production and approves levies on sugar imports.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
6.        This Ministry performs major marketing functions in the sugar sub-
sector. It monitors the local supply and demand situation, and through a
system of allocation quotas, directs the physical flow of sugar within the
country. Another major function is the importation of sugar for household
consumption to supplement local supplies. The Kenya National Trading Cor-
poration responsible to the Ministry has a monopoly in the distribution of
sugar from the source of supply to a national network of wholesale depots.
All of the Ministry's financial transactions in relation to sugar are cen-
tralized in the national sugar account. This account, like all other of the
Ministry's accounts, is administered by the Chief Accountant in the Office of
the President. It also codetermines sugar prices with the Treasury and the
Ministry of Agriculture. Details are presented in Annex 4.
The Ministry of Lands and Settlement
7.        This Ministry is responsible for adjudication surveys and regis-
tration of land rights, the acquisition of land for Government use for
residential and industrial purposes, and the acquisition of large farm units
for redistribution and settlement of landless small-scale farmers. Settlers
are chosen from a list prepared by each Provincial Commissioner's Office. In
the Sugar Belt, the Ministry, through the Sugar Settlement Organization, has
become further involved in mechanized operations to assist settlers in the
growing of cane in an effort to increase their productivity, although this is
not a responsibility of the Ministry (para. 30). This involvement which has
not proven very successful, was prompted by the inability of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Muhoroni factory organization to provide the services
required by farmers.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services
8.        This Ministry is responsible for administering a wide range of
programs among which are cooperatives and community development, vocational
rehabilitation, adult education and training. The development of primary
cooperative societies is supported through training programs, management
advice, and financial assistance under the Cooperative Production Credit
Scheme. The Ministry operates the Cooperative College of Kenya where, to
date, more than 3,000 staff of cooperative societies have been trained in
administration, bookkeeping and management. In the sugar industry, the
Ministry has played an important role in the organization of primary coop-
erative societies and a cooperative union in the Sugar Belt. It also
granted two loans to smallholders in the Chemelil area, totaling KShs. 10
million. The most recent loan in 1974-75, KShs. 5 million at 3.5% interest
per year with a two-year moratorium on principal and interest, was for the
rehabilitation of about 3,600 ha of sugarcane; the program was reduced to
2,400 ha due to inflation.
The Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU)
9.        Cooperatives have a relatively long history in the Sugar Belt, with
the initial primary societies being primarily marketing and farm purchase
societies. Cooperative production societies were established in 1965 in
preparation for the then planned Chemelil factory as a new approach to or-
ganizing outgrowers production; this was in contrast to the Sugar Settlement
Organization at Muhoroni which was already experiencing difficulties at that
time. SBCU was established in 1971 to coordinate the activities of the
various primary societies. There are presently 35 societies affiliated with
SBCU with about 8,500 members in the Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni factory
zones. Of these 35 societies, 11 are production, 7 farm purchase and 17
marketing societies.
10.       When the first primary production societies were organized, the
members were not properly trained and there was a lack of understanding of,
members' responsibility in the society. The farmers received no assistance
or guidance. With the establishment of the SBCU, the Government hoped to
have a more organized approach to farmers' assistance in cane growing. The
Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES), a German organization, has been providing
technical assistance to SBCU and currently is funding about one-half of its
annual cost of operations.
11.       A re-zoning of the factories in the Sugar Belt was made in 1972 and
areas from Miwani and Muhoroni allocated to Chemelil, necessitating the devel-
opment of new areas for cane growing to supply the underutilized i4uhoroni and
Miwani factories. A new loan of KShs. 11.7 million, interest-free with no
definite repayment schedule, made available by the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning through the Ministry of Agriculture, was channeled through
the SBCU for the development of about 2,740 hectares in the Miwani and Muho-
roni zones. SBCU has been onlending these funds at 7% interest a year with



ANNEX 3
Page 4
a 2-year moratorium on principal and interest. In its initial loan opera-
tions, SBCU was not able to maintain adequate accounting control and subse-
quently, when permitted to use part of the loan funds to cover operational
costs, hiired additional staff for proper loan administration. A new program
was added and, through the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, small-scale farmers
obtained a total of KShs. 1.8 million under the Cooperative Production Credit
Scheme (CPCS). W.[hile these loans bear 10% interest per annum and are payable
in full at harvest time, SBCU's recovery experience has been relatively
successful, with KShs. 325,000 repaid as of December 31, 1975 of an original
loan of KShs. 890,000 disbursed in 1974.
12.       Besides acting as the vehicle for the channeling of Government
funds for development and rehabilitation of small-scale farms of members,
SBCU, with the assistance of FES, has been instrumental in obtaining workable
arrangements with the Chemelil factory on behalf of its societies and members.
A joint Chemelil-SBCU operating committee has been established to identify
land for new cane planting, plan and supervise cultivation procedures, and
for the coordination and harvesting and transport of cane. Technical staff
from the tinistry of Agriculture have also been provided to SBCU for the
purpose of supervising field operations of farmers. In support of these
activities, SBCU owns and operates farm and transport equipment to service
member societies.  In 1975, it acquired 5 Same Corsaro and 4 Saturno tractors
which completed cultivation of a monthly average of 234 hectares from August
to December 1975, and transported 25,400 tons out of a total of 73,237 tons of
cane produced by the marketing societies.
13.       Besides the involvement in the agricultural program, SBCU has ex-
panded its activities to include education, social welfare, and the initia-
tion of a banking section which operates as a savings and loan setup. After
starting with 3 society memberships in early 1975, the program has grown to
9 societies by December 1975.  Members' accounts are credited for proceeds
from the sale of sugarcarne to the factories; instead of making direct cash
payments to members.  These deposits amrounted to KShs. 1.7 million for 1,399
members in 1975, of which KShs. 262,500 or 15% remained credited as savings
deposits as at December 31, 1975, earning 5% annual interest. About 80% of
savings deposits generated can be loaned to members at 10% annual interest
~,c r  se` in the repurchase of CPCS notes.
The National Trrigation Board (NIB)
14.       Several NIB-sponsored irrigation schemes for cane-growing are pres-
ently operating oll a  experimental scale.  While there are only 10 hectares
of experimental plots, about 30 hectares of irrigated cane has been grown
commercially under a tenant farmer scheme near Miwani.  Yields of up to 120
t/ha of plant cane, harvested after 14 months, have been achieved; ratoon
cane was harvested after 12 months with yields averaging 80% of the plant
crop.  With these encouraging results, irrigation of sugarcane could become
more impportant In the future.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Banking Institutions
15.       The segment of the banking industry which plays a significant role
in Kenya's sugar industry development includes the Agricultural Development
Corporation (ADC), the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the Cooperative
Bank of Kenya and the Development Finance Company of Kenya Limited (DFCK).
These institutions have been responsible for meeting part of the equity
and/or loan financing requirements of some of the sugar mills and of farmers.
In addition, private banking institutions are becoming increasingly important
as a source of funds.
16.       Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC).  Financed from grants
and loans received from the Ministry of Agriculture, this Government-owned
development bank has made investments in Chemelil Sugar Company, Ltd.,
amounting to KShs. 151 million as of March 31, 1976, of which KShs. 94.4
million is in equity, the rest in loans.  ADC's investments in East African
Sugar Industries (Muhoroni) amount to KShs. 19.5 million for 700,000 of its
outstanding shares.
17.       Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).  Another Government-owned
company, AFC has no equity investments in sugar factories but is a source of
financing for outgrowers. It lends to sugarcane farmers at 9% interest up
to KShs. 3,700 per hectare payable over a period of 2 years to cover part of
farmers' cash inputs for cane growing. This amount generally exceeds the
value of the land used as collateral which is estimated between KShs. 1,235 and
KShs. 1,483 in Nyanza. AFC's experience indicates that it is much easier
to administer loans to large-scale farmers than to smallholders, with a
consequent bias of lending operations in favor of large farms. AFC also
finances up to 50% of the value of farm and transport equipment. These loans
are at 9% interest per annum, payable semi-annually over 3 years.
18.       Development Finance Company of Kenya Limited (DFCK).  This develop-
ment finance company is owned partly by the Government through the Industrial
and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC). The other stockholders owning
equal shares as ICDC are the Commonwealth Development Corporation, German
Development Company, Ltd., and the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing
Countries, Ltd. DFCK invests in the establishment and/or expansion of manu-
facturing and agricultural processing enterprises and has made equity invest-
ment in Chemelil Sugar Company. Largely because Chemelil has not produced a
profit after more than 7 years of operation, DFCK did not subscribe to Mumias
shares when invited.
19.       The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.  The Cooperative Bank of Kenya,
Ltd., acts as a banker to the cooperative movement. Besides operating as a
channel through which public funds are made available for cooperative devel-
opment, the Bank also assists the movement by using funds generated from
within. The Cooperative Production Credit Scheme in which the bank is in-
volved, is a means of providing credit and saving facilities for members of
agricultural cooperatives; the average loan is about KShs. 200 per farmer,
and the annual number of loans is expected to rise from 25,000 in 1972 to
100,000 in 1978.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
C. Industry Organization at the National Level
The Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
20.       Recognizing the need to support the development of the sugar indus-
try, Government, in 1972, created the Kenya Sugar Authority as a statutory
board under Cap 318, Section 190 of the Agricultural Act. According to the
Act the Authority's general duties are "to promote the development of the
sugar industry in the most efficient and economical manner possible, and in
particular, to promote and foster practices which enhance the efficiency of
the production, processing and marketing of sugarcane, sugar in all its
forms, and molasses." In the same Act sugarcane, sugar and molasses were
declared as special produce, thus becoming subject to price regulation by
Government. To implement the provisions of the Act, an Interim Sugar Author-
ity was created in April 1972 with the appointment of the Provincial Commis-
sioner of Nyanza as chairman, and the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Finance, the Provincial Commissioner of Western Province,
and representatives of farmers and factories as members. The conduct of
KSA's business was made the responsibility of a Chief Executive Officer.
21.       The purpose of the Interim Sugar Authority was defined, specif-
ically, to advise the Government on all aspects of the industry covering,
among other aspects:
(a) sugarcane production, planting material, credit and infra-
structure for growers;
(b) cane harvesting and transport to factories;
(c) growing of cane supplied to different factories;
(d) factory development and improvements;
(e) sugarcane processing and the utilization of by-products;
(f) sugarcane quality control and improvements;
(g) cesses to be raised from all parts of the industry;
(h) the price of sugarcane to growers and the price of sugar
to millers;
(i) legislation required by the sugar industry;
(j) staff requirements of the industry in general and of the
Authority in particular, and the remuneration of such staff;
(k) specialist committees of the Authority, their need, admin-
istration and supervision; and



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(1) the development of the industry in general and other
matters related thereto.
22.       Shortly after the members of KSA were appointed, committees were
organized for the purpose of making proposals to the Minister on the fore-
going aspects of the industry. Headed by the Provincial Commissioner of
Nyanza Province, these committees consisted of farmers, representatives of
cooperatives and settlement schemes, factory managers, provincial adminis-
tration officials, and the technical staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
in Nyanza Province. The report of these committees, submitted to the Min-
ister of Agriculture in late July 1972 included detailed recommendations on
a wider role of KSA in industry development, its organization and staffing,
and proposed legislation granting certain powers to the Authority to act on
behalf of the Minister of Agriculture within the terms of the Agriculture
Act. In Legal Notice No. 32, issued on February 15, 1973, however, the Min-
ister decided to maintain the KSA as an advisory body only, and the interim
arrangement became, in effect, permanent.
23.       Staffed with the Chief Executive Officer, an Economist/Statistician
and an Executive Officer, besides the ten members who jointly act similar to
a company Board, the KSA has made studies on zoning in the Sugar Belt and
reviewed a number of other issues and problems. KSA is presently involved in
appraising schemes for the development and extension of production areas and
in preparing studies on cane pricing; it submits its recommendations to the
Minister as required. Even as an advisory body, the KSA, with its present
staffing, could not be expected to undertake the comprehensive studies that
are needed as a basis for Government decisions. In the past, it relied on ad
hoc committees organized occasionally to investigate specific problems, such
as the Ad Hoc Committee on Sugarcane Transport within the Nyanza Sugar Belt
which investigated the cane transport problems in early 1975 (para. 36).
24.       There are a host of problems that the industry is faced with and
which need national Government attention, appropriately through the KSA.
Some examples of these are underutilization of four existing factories, low
productivity and cane quality in four factory zones, inefficient procurement
of materials and equipment, inadequate market outlets for molasses, and
inefficient sugar distribution. These problems, in turn, are related to
inadequate financial and technical assistance to smallholder farmers, mostly
in the Nyanza Sugar Belt area, resulting from poor organization of institu-
tions serving the farmers, inadequate financial resources of four existing
factories to undertake rehabilitation or improvments, slow progress in the
sugar research effort, lack of qualified manpower, and ineffective planning
throughout the industry. The lack of a single agency which could effectively
implement projects and programs is a serious shortcoming as the Government's
efforts are dissipated over individual agency assistance programs which are
invariably hampered by loose coordination and inefficiency. KSA would be a
more effective agency if it were able to advise the industry as well as the
Government and empowered with proper delegation of authority and sufficient
resources, to coordinate and implement development activities in the industry
(Annex 17).



ANNEX 3
Page 8
D. Organization at the Company Level
Factories and Nucleus Estates
25.       East African Sugar Industries, Ltd., at M4uhoroni is managed by The
Mehta Group, Ltd., who own 16% of shareholdings in the company. The majority
shareholdings are held by the Government through ADC (para. 16). The factory
has a crushing capacity of 420,000 tons of cane over a period of 300 milling
days, expandable to 600,000 t, and presently employs 550 permanent workers of
which 17 are expatriates. It does not have its own nucleus estate, although
the company is presently in the process of acquiring the Nyando estate with
a total area of 2,024 hectares from which it already derives 20% of its cane
supply. The rest of the cane supply comes from 3,000 farmers in the Sugar
Settlement Scheme comprising 5,700 hectares (para. 30), farmers not affiliated
with any scheme controlling 2,000 hectares and an SBCU-sponsored area of 600
hectares. The company does not have its own agricultural department nor does
it maintain farm machinery or transport equipment-to assist farmers in land
preparation, cultivation and cane transport and, consequently has no direct
control over its outgrowers. The already serious problem of inadequate cane
supply was aggravated by the re-zoning in 1972 when part of Muhoroni's catch-
ment area for cane was allocated to Chemelil. Government sought to remedy the
situation, temporarily by diverting back to Muhoroni some cane from Chemelil,
and permanently through loans for the development of new areas (para. 11).
There is a need for the Muhoroni company to assume responsibility for ren-
dering services to its farmers.
26.       The Chemelil Sugar Company, Ltd., has been managed since 1969 by
Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services, Ltd., who do not own any equity
interest in the company. The Government owns 97% of the shares through the
Agricultural Development Corporation (para. 16) with the remaining shares
being held mainly by DFCK. The factory has a crushing capacity of about
600,000 tons of cane a year over a 300-day milling period. The company owns
a nucleus estate with an area of 3,240 hectares, which is about 22% of the
Chemelil zone's cane area of 14,170 hectares. About 14% of the total area is
farmed by large-holding, independent farmers with farm sizes ranging from 40
- 1,600 hectares. Smallholder farmers, who are members of 11 primary socie-
ties affiliated with SBCU, account for about 3,800 hectares and the remaining
area is farmed by smallholder farmers who are not members of a cooperative
society. The company presently employs about 1,300 people; its expatriate
staff of 14 was expected to be reduced to 8 by the end of 1976. An agricul-
tural department manages the nucleus estate and, to a limited extent, provides
services to outgrowers; about 800 hectares were ploughed for cane growing in
outgrower areas. The company's transport fleet has recently been expanded.
Chemelil had been incurring losses since it started operations, primarily
because it had been operating below its capacity. In 1975, plant utilization
was only 62%, with a total of 413,600 tons of cane crushed.
27.       The Mumias Sugar Company, Ltd., which is also managed by Bookers
Agricultural and Technical Services, Ltd., is the newest company majority-



ANNEX 3
Page 9
owned by Government. Other investors include East African Development Bank,
Kenya Commercial Bank, Commonwealth Development Corporation and Booker
McConnell. With an initial cane crushing capacity of 450,000 tons a year,
the factory expanded to a capacity of 700,000 tons of cane a year and has
plans to double the latter as soon as increased cane production warrants it.
The nucleus estate of about 4,450 hectares gross area and 3,240 hectares cane
area was fully planted by the end of 1975. At that time, there were also
5,100 smallholder farmers under contract with the company growing about 7,800
hectares of cane. With the recent expansion, additional areas are being
brought into cultivation, increasing the total area to 9,715 hectares and
the number of outgrowers to 6,000. An agricultural department manages the
nucleus estate, renders extension services to the outgrowers and operates a
fleet of farm machinery and transport equipment for land preparation, cultiva-
tion and cane transport. With a staff of 3,000, of which 25 are expatriates
(50 at the time of commissioning of the factory) Mumias has been able to
develop on target. In 1975, it hit a record production of 59,200 tons of
sugar, exceeding its rated pre-expansion capacity and earning pre-tax profits
of KShs. 26 million.
28.       Miwani and Ramisi are privately-owned and managed companies.  Miwani
is presently producing about 28,000 tons of sugar a year which is only 47% of
its capacity. Its nucleus estate totals 3,240 hectares and accounts for one-
third of its cane supply. The Company employs 1,400 permanent staff of which
8 are expatriates. It has an agricultural department for its own nucleus es-
tate operations but does not service its outgrowers. The Ramisi company has
an estate of about 5,000 ha gross area which supplies approximately 100,000 t
cane/year; outgrowers produce 18,000 t/year.
Outgrowers Production
29.       Of the total cane area of about 50,000 ha, 34,000 ha are farmed by
outgrowers, 20,600 ha of which by small-scale farmers; 16,000 ha are estate
land. The large-scale farmers, especially in the Chemelil zone, with farms
ranging from 40 - 1,600 ha, are generally equipped to handle their own land
preparation, cultivation, harvesting and transport. Smallholders, however,
generally do not have the know-how or the facilities to undertake cane
growing practices of acceptable standards.
30.       The Government realized outgrowers' difficulties and when it was
decided to devote part of the settlement area to grow cane for supplying the
Muhoroni factory, the Sugar Settlement Scheme was organized to service the
farmers. Established in 1964, the Scheme involved about 3,000 farmers with
an average holding of about 4 hectares each, a little over one-half of which
was planted to cane. To assist farmers in land preparation, the Sugar Set-
tlement Organization, which manages the Scheme, acquired farm machinery and
operated a tractor pool. Because of management and financial problems, the
operation of this tractor pool was discontinued a few years later. Cultiva-
tion is presently handled by private contractors through arrangements made
by the Settlement Organization. Because of basic inefficiencies in schedul-
ing and cultivation of scattered small plots and higher operational costs



ANNEX 3
Page 10
resulting from inflation, contractors' rates are high; e.g., the rates for
ploughing, harrowing and ridging more than doubled in 1976 (from KShs. 1,480/
ha to KShs. 3,460/ha). These rates are considered by the Sugar Settlement
Organization to be excessive in relation to the farmers' sugarcane output
and acquisition of agricultural machinery and equipment is again being con-
templated. Overall, the role of the Sugar Settlement Scheme in sugarcane
production has not been very successful. The start of actual operations of
the Muhoroni factory suffered delays, causing delays in the harvesting of
cane to the detriment of the farmers who were unable to service their produc-
tion credits. There were also initial problems with the transport of cane,
resulting further in unharvested and overmatured cane. These factors may
have contributed to an adverse attitude of farmers in the Settlement Scheme,
only half of whom actually occupy and farm the land originally allocated to
them. Income levels are reportedly low and repayment of credits to the Land
Settlement Organization in arrears; losses from default on credit are expected
to be written off.
31.       In response to the unfavorable experience at Muhoroni, the Chemelil
company assumed initial responsibility for outgrowers when the factory was
established. Cooperative production societies were formed under the super-
vision of the company's agricultural department with a loan from the Ministry
of Cooperatives and Social Services (para. 8). Complications quickly devel-
oped. During the early stages of Chemelil's operations, the company went
through a series of changes in managing agents and there was a lack of con-
trol over the agricultural operations. There were also delays in the actual
start-up of factory operations so that farmers suffered severe losses of
income from their cane, particularly as their debt service was based on a
rigid schedule of payments per hectare of cane. Consequently, farmers were
discouraged and most of the cane fields reverted to fallow. In 1971, small-
holder responsibility at Chemelil was transferred to SBCU. The SBCU, with
3,800 ha of smallholder land in this area, made progress in increasing its
assistance to members and gradually became active in all three Sugar Belt
zones. Extension services, credit, land preparation, cultivation, harvesting
and transport assistance have been organized or provided directly by SBCU.
Even with external assistance (para. 10), however, SBCU has not been able
to meet farmers' requirement due to financial and management constraints.
Arrangements to use extension staff made available by the Ministry of Agri-
culture have not been very successful because of morale problems. To many
farmers, their share of the burden of KShs. 5 per ton to the Society and KShs.
1 per ton to the Union, when added to other services of KShs. 4 per ton for
harvesting, and KShs. 23 per ton for transport, leaves KShs. 72 per ton out of
gross proceeds of KShs. 105 per ton under 1976 prices. The farmer still has
to pay for cultivation credits thus further reducing his income. According
to Chemelil management, the typical outgrower in the Nyanza Sugar Belt nets
as much profit per hectare per year using low input-output practices as
the nucleus estates using high input-output techniques; Government's new price
policy will greatly reduce this problem in 1977 (Annex 4). With the impending
phase-out by 1978 of external assistance, the cooperative effort will be
severely handicapped as the extra burden on farmers will again reduce their
incentive.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
32.       All of Government's efforts in the Sugar Belt, whether it was
through the Sugar Settlemnt Organization or the SBCU, or through the medium
of cane pricing adjustments, were designed to provide the farmer with suf-
ficient income from his land by economically producing cane that could
adequately supply the factories in the area. This objective has not been
fully achieved and it is imperative that in the future, an organization be
established which can effectively and efficiently assit the farmer at a cost
that would bring him returns sufficiently attractive for him to continue to
grow and care for his cane. As no subsidies are envisaged, this objective can
only be achieved if the services are provided to farmers on a cost-effective
basis and full account is taken of all costs of production and transport in
the adjustment of cane prices. This was the thrust of outgrowers' cane
development at Mumias which now has about 7,800 ha farmed by 5,100 smallholders
in addition to its own nucleus estate. From the beginning, the company had
been providing land preparation services, selected treated seed cane, fertili-
zers on credit, and the technical guidance throughout the life of the crop.
The farmers are under individual contract with the company which also provides
harvesting and transport services. With this arrangement and satisfactory
farmer cooperation, cane yields have reportedly been averaging over 91 t per
ha per crop, resulting in farm incomes of over KShs. 3,950 per ha, net of all
costs of services and materials provided by the company. With this mode of
operation successfully established, a separate outgrowers company is now being
formed which will reduce the burden on the sugar company without completely
divorcing it from its outgrowers source of cane supply. A similar pattern is
anticipated for South Nyanza (Annex 18).
Harvesting of Sugarcane
33.       The climatic conditions in most cane growing areas in Kenya give
rise to prolonged growing periods ranging from 20 to 22 months for plant cane
(12 months at Ramisi) and from 16 to 18 months for ratoon cane to reach
maturity. A cycle of 1 plant and 3 ratoon crops is common at Ramisi and is
expected in Mumias. In the Sugar Belt, although fourth ratoons have been
recorded in most areas, a cyle of 1 plant and 2 ratoon crops is preferable.
Harvesting of cane is carried out throughout the year except for short periods
when the factories shut down for annual repairs for a period of about 2 to 6
weeks during the month of May or June. Cane is cut by hand and the farmers
arrange for these services either themselves (Muhoroni, Miwani) or with the
assistance of the factory (Mumias and Chemelil). SBCU also provides these
services to its member societies. The cane cutters are paid about KShs. 8/t;
a cane cutter can cut up to 2 t per day. In the case of burnt cane, the rate
is KShs. 4/t as each cutter can cut up to 4 t per day because of the absence
of trash. However, the measurement of weights at the field is generally a
matter of guesswork. Cane is piled in 6-8 t heaps.
34.       In the Sugar Belt, harvesting schedules are generally not properly
planned and coordinated with the factories, except recently at Chemelil after
a Chemelil/SBCU committee was created for this purpose. In Mumias, harvest-
ing follows a pre-determined schedule. Problems arise when harvesting is
unscheduled such as when a fire occurs and burnt cane has to be cut, trans-
ported and milled within 24 hours. The frequency of cane fires in the Nyanza
Sugar Belt area, especially during the dry months, has been increasing. In
1974, about 2,120 ha of cane in Miwani, Hluhoroni and Chemelil were reportedly



ANNEX 3
Page 12
damaged by fire; 1,362 ha were damaged during the first three months of 1975.
Organized prevention and control measures are necessary to minimize losses,
especially of immature cane. Despite the considerable risks, supervised
burning of cane in outgrower areas would be beneficial to farmers due to
reduced harvesting costs and should be investigated (Annex 18).
Transport of Sugarcane
35.       Cane is transported from the fields to the factory mostly with
tractor-trailer systems or trucks. Part of Miwani's harvest is hauled by
rail. While the large-holding farmers in the Sugar Belt generally have their
own transport equipment, the small-holding farmers rely partly on the factory
or SBCU, the Sugar Settlement Organization, or private transporters. SBCU
can transport only 35% of the cane production of its member societies. The
farmer is charged on the basis of weight and distance; KShs. 21/t for up to
10 km; KShs. 23/t from 11-16 km; KShs. 26/t from 17-24 km, and KShs. 28/t
above 24 km. In the Miwani/Chemelil zones, a tractor/trailer with a 6 t load
averages 3 trips per working day of 14 hours and an average radius of 16 km.
Loading of the trailers in the fields normally takes about half an hour,
while the waiting time at the factory ranges from 1-2 hours. A driver who is
paid KShs. 16 per day with a bonus of KShs. 3 per trip in excess of 3 trips,
is assisted by about 6 helpers for loading. These 6 helpers are paid a total
of KShs. 3/t loaded.
36.       The main problem in the Sugar Belt area has been the organization
of the use of transport facilities. In February 1975, the KSA appointed an
"Ad Hoc Committee on Sugarcane Transport" to investigate the cane transport
situation in the Sugar Belt. This Committee consisted of representatives
of the Chemelil, Miwani and Muhoroni factories, the Sugar Settlement Organ-
ization, SBCU, and the Muhoroni Sugarcane FCU Ltd. (since then dissolved).
In a report submitted in July 1975, this committee stated that there were
a total of 331 cane transport vehicles operating in the Sugar Belt as shown
below:
Cane Transport Vehicles Operating in the Sugar Belt,
July 1975
Tractor/Trailer   Lorry        Total
Chemelil Estate          22             5           27
Miwani                    10             -          10
Muhoroni                   -             -           _
Nyando Estate             -              6           6
Sugar Settlement          -             -            -
Organization            8                          8
SBCU                     11             -           11
All Others               152          117          269
Total              203           128          331



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Most of the vehicles were owned by independent farmers and by individuals or
partnerships in the transport business. In Miwani, there was found to be a
complete lack of factory/outgrowers coordination or any form of control of
transport within the zone. Each transporter functioned individually as
requested by outgrowers. Because of insufficient supply of cane, Miwani
accepts whatever cane is delivered to the factory for crushing. In Chemelil,
the factory and the SBCU exercised some control over cane transport. The
private business transporters entered into a contractual arrangement to
transport cane from a specified area within a specified time. Farmers with
their own transport facilities also obtain allocated quotas to supply the
factory with cane as determined by a milling committee. In Muhoroni, factory
management is beginning to be involved in determining harvesting and trans-
porting schedules with SBCU which owns transport facilities and has affili-
ated private transporters operating within the Sugar Settlement Organization
together with Government vehicles. Muhoroni farmers have had particular
problems with private transport contractors who cannot be relied on to ser-
vice all growers in less favorable locations.
37.       At an estimated sugarcane production of about 930,000 t in the
Sugar Belt in 1975 and an average daily feed to the mills of some 3,100 t,
assuming a milling period of 300 days/year, 258 units would have been theo-
retically required (2 daily trips of a 6 t tractor/trailer unit) to carry
the cane. Even allowing for out-of-service units, the existing transport
fleet should have been able to provide timely service with proper schedul-
ing. The transport problems in the Sugar Belt will likely continue unless
remedial steps are taken. With the cost of transporting farmer's cane
already absorbing 25% of the factory gate price of cane, growing inefficiency
in transportation could further reduce the farmer's margin. There is a need
for an efficiently managed organization in each factory zone to handle the
cane transport needs economically and to assure that cane supply requirements
of factories are met. The ownership and operation of the transportation
units by the factory, as is the case at Mumias, would assure standardization
of units and contribute to the factory's efficiency in unloading operations
at the caneyards.
Manpower Development
38.       The three Government majority-owned sugar factories are all managed
by managing agents engaged by the Government (para. 25 to 27). In each of
the existing factories, including the private ones, the number of expatriate
personnel handling key positions range from 8 to 25. These are clear indica-
tions of a dearth in management and technical talent with practical sugar
industry experience in the country. To bridge this gap, the managing agents
are committed to develop local personnel in their factories to gradually
assume positions presently occupied by expatriates. Each of these factories
have developed their own programs for training of staff and have been grad-
ually reducing the number of expatriate personnel originally employed.
39.       The training program at Muhoroni is classified into four cate-
gories, namely, training on the job for operators and attendants, "in-house"



ANNEX 3
Page 14
supervisory training, apprenticeship and skill improvement and management
courses. Training on the job does not involve classroom instruction. This
is actual instruction given the operator on how to operate the machine or
equipment he is assigned to. The employee is already hired and receives
regular wages but is placed on a probationary basis from 2 to 6 months while
undergoing training. The supervisory training includes subjects on job
safety, job relations, job methods, and job instructions and is held twice a
year, with 2-hour sessions for a whole week. Separate sessions are held for
foremen, headmen and overseers. Apprenticeship and skill improvement train-
ing is for craftsmen welders, electricians, etc., at an Industrial Training
Center, and for technicians at the Kenya Polytechnic. Industrial Training
Centers, located in Kisumu, Niairobi and Mombasa, are vocational training
centers operated by the Ministry of Labor. As many as 160 trainees can be
accommodated at any given time. The Kenya Polytechnic is a more advanced
form of training in science or engineering subjects. This school has an
annual enrollment of about 2,800 students. The costs of sending trainees
to these programs are recoverable from the training levy of KShs. 2/ton of
sugar. The management courses are 2 - 3 day seminars held at least once a
year for managers. These courses are organized by the Federation of Kenya
Employees, a private organization. The subjects covered in these seminars
include personnel, production and financial management.
40.       The manpower development programs at Chemelil and Mumias are ap-
parently better organized than at Muhoroni. Their programs are based on a
periodic analysis and review of training needs encompassing all departments
from managerial levels down to the headmen and drivers. The requirements for
training are determined also for individuals as they are hired, which con-
sider their specific backgrounds and experience, in relation to the positions
for which they are hired. The recruitment process, therefore, plays an
important role in the direction and planning of the training programs.
41.       There are several types of programs of training carried out at
Mumias by two full-time training specialists in addition to the operational
managers who also hold specialization courses for employees in their respec-
tive departments. Eight Kenyan managers have been sent so far for further
training in UK, Australia or Managa in Swaziland. Graduate management
trainees are also attending practical engineering courses at the East African
Railways in Nairobi. Formal training is arranged for some employees, using
the facilities at the Kenya Polytechnic. Seven employees are presently
attending courses there and four more were scheduled in 1976. There are also
40 apprentices in various trades enrolled at Kisumu, Nairobi, or Mombasa
Industrial Training Centers.
42.       The experience of Mumias when it started recruiting staff in 1973
gives an indication of the availability of qualified candidates and the
nature and extent of training required. For the agricultural operations,
1iumias had no difficulty recruiting adequate field staff up to and including
supervisor level. However, diploma or university graduates with management
potential to start at salary levels for 'the field staff could not be engaged



ANNEX 3
Page 15
because salaries were considered by the applicants to be too low. Tractor
drivers were readily available but transport assistants were not. Factory
staff for processing and laboratory were available except pan boilers and
supervisors. The engineering positions were difficult to fill because of
non-competitive salary levels. Well-trained staff for the accounting posi-
tions were difficult to find and the company resorted to taking in bright
and trainable applicants.
43.       Farmers' training is conducted in Farmers Training Centers of the
Ministry of Agriculture, although subjects pertaining to sugarcane cultiva-
tion are seriously neglected. In Nyanza Province, such centers are
located in Kisii, Maseno and Homa Bay.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICING OF SUGAR
A. Distribution
1.        The physical distribution of sugar to regional wholesale depots is
the responsibility of the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC); local
distribution is in the hands of the private trade. Established in 1965, KNTC
is one of a number of commercial institutions which are wholly-owned by the
Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) under the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry. At the beginning, sugar was the only commodity traded
by RITC, but its current trading operations extend to about 50 items, includ-
ing salt, edible oils, rice, textiles, cement, etc. Despite this expansion,
sugar still accounted for about 76% of KNTC's total sales volume in 1975.
KNTC is reimbursed for its expenses in the form of a fixed commission related
to the volume traded (para. 15).
2.        The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for estimating
sugar requirements, procuring sugar locally and through import, allocating of
sugar supplies, and enforcing regulations governing the marketing of sugar.
The Chief Accountant of the Office of the President, who handles all of the
Ministry's accounts, carries out all financial transactions related to KNTC's
trading activities and maintains the national sugar account. The national
sugar account is a central fund into which all proceeds from the sale of
sugar to wholesalers by KNTC are deposited, and from which all sugar payments
for purchase, handling, and distribution to KNTC warehouses are made.
3.        Each month, the Ministry determines the amount of sugar to be
shipped by each factory to each of KNTC's 18 depots. This monthly provisional
allocation order which is sent around the middle of the month preceding ship-
ments, is determined on the basis of stocks on hand reported by the KNTC
depots, and the estimated consumption for the forthcoming month. The order
contains instructions for shipment, usually by rail, with the freight charges
payable from the sugar account; copies are sent to the Chief Statistician,
East African Statistics Department; Chief Accountant of the Office of the
President; General Manger of KNTC; Chief Traffic Manager, East African Rail-
ways; and the station master of the destination station. The provisional
allocations are frequently changed and the factories informed mainly by
telephoned instructions. These changes, which are made in close cooperation
with KNTC in Nairobi, have occasionally caused difficulties for the factories
as their limited storage capacity has threatened to halt factory operations
when sugar had to be stored longer than expected. As soon as the sugar, in
bags of 100 kilograms, is received by the various KNTC depots, KNTC head-
quarters notifies the Ministry of Commerce and Industry which instructs the
Chief Accountant in the Office of the President to make payments to the
factories. KNTC depots sell on a cash basis to 353 private wholesalers
throughout the country who are authorized by the Provincial Trade Development
Officer of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The proceeds are credited



ANNEX 4
Page 2
to a local subaccount of the national sugar account. Wholesalers sell sugar
to retailers without control on a customer basis. KNTC has no information on
these retailers and does not monitor retailers' stock movements.
4.        The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has a monopoly on sugar
imports for household consumption. Sugar required by industry for beverage
production, canning, etc., is imported directly by the industrial users;
these industries generally require highly refined sugar not produced in
Kenya. Imported sugar for household consumption is channeled through the
Kenya Farmers' Association (Coop), Ltd., in Mombasa who act as a wholesale
distributor to KNTC. To minimize transport costs, imported sugar is sold
primarily in the Mombasa area. Outside Mombasa, preference in the shipment
of refined import sugar is given to areas serving the tourist industry.
Although Kenya produces only mill-white sugar, it imports refined sugar for
household consumption as well as industrial use as mill-white sugar is not
traded internationally and domestic refining of imported raw sugar is com-
plicated by the lack of refining equipment of most local sugar factories and
the locational disadvantage of the factories.
5.        The financial results of KNTC in 1974 and 1975 were satisfactory.
KNTC's net assets increased to KShs. 12.6 million, or by 31.5%, in 1975;
profits after taxes rose by 7.1% to KShs. 3.6 million. Gross profits from
its trading account amounted to KShs. 17.0 million in 1975, or 21.7% above
the 1974 level. Sugar accounted for 76% of total sales in 1975 and contrib-
uted 69% to gross trading profits net of commission charges. KNTC's finan-
cial statements for the fiscal years 1974 and 1975 are presented in Table 1.
6.        The distribution system through KNTC has advantages and disadvan-
tages. The fact that KNTC is a specialized multi-commodity trading agency
with an established infrastructure is definitely an advantage. On the
negative side are such factors as the lack of "active selling," KNTC's
organizational distance from the sugar industry and occasionally poor and
inefficient execution by KNTC and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of
their assigned functions. Since KNTC is merely a commission agent in the
system it does not have sufficient incentives to strive for maximum effi-
ciency. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry, on the other hand, is not
properly equipped to carry out its functions as the nerve center of the
system. The Ministry lacks the capability for basic market research and
analysis for medium and long-term planning purposes, and for monitoring
nation-wide the current supply/demand and stock balances as a basis for
allocating sugar on a monthly basis. Organizing timely transport of sugar
to all locations in the country is a recurrent problem. The sugar account
is not kept current enough to serve as a management tool. However, a major
reorganization of the marketing system at this time is not warranted as the
alternatives are not sufficiently superior, a change would be costly, and
there is room for raising efficiency under the present system. Government
would undertake to address the problems, which are recognized, and imple-
ment remedial measures; a plan for improvement, covering at least the areas of
sugar market research and analysis, domestic sugar allocation, sugar transport,
storage, and the national sugar account, would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1978. KSA would be able to assist in this effort and provide
partial financing (Annex 17, para. 26).



ANNEX 4
Page 3
B. The Market for Sugar
The Period 1955-75
7.        Production.  The production of sugar in Kenya reached a record high
of 164,000 t in 1974, slightly above the 1975 output of 161,000 t. The expan-
sion from a total production level of 17,000 t in 1955 occurred in steps coin-
ciding with the establishment of new factories, i.e., Muhoroni and Chemelil in
1967-70 and Mumias in 1973. In 1975, the three Sugar Belt companies produced
59% of the country's sugar output, Mumias 35% and Ramisi 6%.
8.        Consumption.  Sugar consumption is estimated to have increased from
55,000 t in 1955 to 225,000 t in 1974. Over the same period per capita
consumption rose from 7.9 kg/year to 17.6 kg/year, and total population from
7.0 million to 12.8 million. In 1975, per capita consumption fell to 14.6 kg
and total consumption to 194,000 t due to sharp increases in prices (para.
14). The increase in sugar consumption over the past two decades was gradual,
and the drop in 1975 was the only significant interruption of this trend. In
comparison, per capita consumption elsewhere in 1972/73 was as follows:
World Average                          19.2 kg
Cuba                                  67.6 kg
U.K.                                  49.4 kg
U.S.A.                                47.9 kg
Algeria                                19.2 kg
Kenya                                  16.7 kg
Sudan                                 16.0 kg
Tanzania                               7.8 kg
9.        Imports.  From 1955 to 1967 imports, which continuously exceeded
domestic production of sugar, averaged 59,000 t/year. While for the period
1968-75 domestic production exceeded imports in all years except one, the
average level of annual imports remained high at 55,000 t. The aggregate
supply and demand picture for sugar for the period 1955-75 is shown in Table
2. The monthly supply and disposition of sugar for the period January, 1974
to September, 1976 is depicted in Table 3.
Projections for the Period 1976-90
10.       Production.  With the expansion of the Mumias factory to 76,000 t/
year in 1976 and full production expected in 1978, and the minor improvements
currently undertaken in the other existing factories, total sugar production
would be about 189,000 t/year from 1979 onwards. With the planned new invest-
ments during the 5-year period 1977-81 at Mumias and the new areas in Nzoia
(60,000 t) and South Nyanza (90,000 t), total yearly sugar production would,
it is estimated, increase to 386,000 t by 1985 and reach 417,000 t from 1990
onwards. Additional investments to improve the output at Ramisi, Muhoroni,
Chemelil and Miwani would increase Kenya's sugar production to approximately
491,000 t in 1990 (Table 4).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.       Consumption.  Kenya s population is projected to increase from 13.3
million in 1975 to 18.6 million in 1985. Per capita consumption of sugar
declined further in 1976. This decline, tentatively estimated to amount to
16% below the 1975 level, reduced consumption to less than 13.0 kg/person.
The development of future demand depends largely on Government's price policy
and changes in household incomes. If consumer prices were pegged at levels
such as to allow an annual growth in per capita consumption of 3.5-4.5%, total
demand of sugar would increase to about 327,000-355,000 t by 1985, and to
464,000-524,000 t in 1990 (Table 5). Assuming an annual per capita income
growth of 2.8% and an income elasticity of demand of 0.4, such consumption
levels could only be achieved if the real price of sugar to consumers (i.e.
after adjusting for inflation) were reduced by about 2-3% annually throughout
the period considered. However, if a policy of maximizing domestic consump-
tion were pursued, assuming no subsidies to either producers or consumers, the
resulting demand would considerably exceed these projections in 1985, but be
nearly identical in 1990 (Table 6). Government's demand projection of 25.8
kg/person in 1985, representing an extrapolation of the historic trend up to
1974, seems unrealistic with respect to costs of production, general economic
conditions and the underlying demand elasticities for sugar.
C. Prices
12.       Price formation in the sugar industry is entirely administrative
rather than the result of interaction of free market forces. Upon recommen-
dation by the KSA, the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Commerce fix
all prices and margins, usually for a period of one year. The basis of KSA's
recommendation are costs of production, processing and distribution, and a
margin to provide a fair return at all stages in the marketing channel.
Prices are generally uniform throughout the country, although provincial
government officials may make adjustments to allow for differences in trans-
port costs within a Province.
13.       Sugarcane Prices.  The price of sugarcane delivered at factory gate
was KShs. 52/t from 1969 to 1973, KShs. 62/t in 1974, KShs. 92/t in 1975 and
KShs. 105/t in 1976. As a proportion of the ex-mill price of sugar, the
price per ton of cane decreased from 5.7% in 1969 to 4.6% in 1976; as a pro-
portion of the retail price of sugar, it decreased from 3.4% to 2.3% (Table
7). Cane prices paid by the Ramisi factory have averaged about KShs. 2.00/t
less than prices paid by the other companies. Prices actually received by
farmers generally are considerably less than the official price on account of
transportation costs, levies and other charges being deducted. In 1976, for
example, transport charges in the Sugar Belt ranged from KShs. 21/t to KShs.
28/t, depending on distance, and cooperative levies totaled KShs. 6/t, re-
sulting in a farm gate price of KShs. 70-78 per ton of cane before deducting
other charges related to production. Net returns to farmers are shown in
Annex 20.
14.       Sugar Prices.  The price received by the factories was raised from
KShs. 1,230/t to KShs. 1,860/t in March, 1975 and to KShs. 2,300/t in January,
1976, or by 51.2% and 23.7%, respectively. As a proportion of the retail



ANNEX 4
Page 5
price, it dropped from 59.3% in 1966 to 51.1% in 1976. The retail price was
raised from KShs. 2,400/t to KShs. 3,500/t in 1975, and to KShs. 4,500/t in
1976, or 45.8% and 28.6%, respectively. These sharp increases in prices,
prompted largely by high international prices (Annex 19) and mounting import
requirements, severely depressed domestic consumption of sugar (para. 11).
Comparative retail prices for selected capital cities are shown below.
Retail Price in KShs./Kg
Mexico City                                    1.46
Brasilia                                       2.74
London                                         2.93
Canberra                                       3.11
Nairobi                                       4.50
Paris, Rome, Washington                       4.57
Bonn, Ottawa, The Hague                       4.76
Copenhagen                                    4.94
Dar-es-Salaam                                  5.00
Brussels                                       5.86
Buenos Aires, Stockholm                        6.59
Tokyo                                          7.50
Source: USDA, Foreign Agriculture, August 9, 1976
15.       Margins.  The cost to the Government of carrying stocks and of
transporting sugar from points of supply to KNTC depots increased from KShs.
49/t in 1974 to KShs. 70/t in 1975/76. KNTC was allowed a margin for storage
and handling of KShs. 18/t from 1969 to 1974, KShs. 38/t in 1975 and KShs.
32/t in 1976. Wholesalers' margins increased from KShs. 34/t in 1969-74 to
KShs. 40/t in 1975 and KShs. 45/t in 1976. The retail margin was nearly
doubled from KShs. 128/t to KShs. 250/t in 1975, and remained unchanged in
1976.
16.       With an estimated ratio of 15.9 t of cane per ton of sugar experi-
enced in 1966, the factory margin in that year was KShs. 92/t of sugar; the
value of cane represented 90% of the ex-mill price of sugar. In 1976, the
ratio of cane to sugar had declined to about 10:1, resulting in a factory
margin of KShs. 1,250/t and a share of cane in the ex-mill price of sugar of
46%.
17.       Taxes and Levies.  An excise duty, collected at the factory gate,
of KShs. 441/t of sugar was in effect over the past decade, but was raised to
KShs. 1,000/t in June 1976. Sugar excise revenues for 1970-76 are shown
below:



AiNEX 4
Page 6
Actual                   Sugar Excise Revenues
(KShs. Million)
1970                             64.4
1971                            54.3
1972                            49.3
1973                            57.0
1974                             71.1
Estimated
1975                             71.0
1976                            120.0
Souce: Ministry of Finance and Planning
18.       Since the retail price of sugar is uniform regardless of the source
and cost of supply, an equalization levy on domestic production had been
imposed for some time to compensate for the higher cost of imported sugar.
Theoretically, the levy would be derived by pooling all revenues and expendi-
tures in the national sugar account, and determining the amount per ton sold
that would balance the account. In practice, such a balance has not been
achieved. The equalization levy was KShs. 100/t for 1969-74; it was raised
sharply with rising costs of imports to KShs. 500/t in 1974, KShs. 800/t in
1975 and KShs. 1,362/t in 1976. With those levies, the sugar account incurred
a deficit in four years and a surplus in two between 1970 and 1975, and the
accumulated funds in the account as of June 30, of each year fluctuated
between KShs. 15.5-82.9 million for the period. With the high 1975 and 1976
levies, however, revenues during the 11-month period of July, 1975 - May,
1976 greatly outpaced expenditures, and the accumulated funds in the sugar
account reached KShs. 313.1 million as of June 1, 1976 (Table 8). As in view
of the reduced domestic demand for sugar and falling world market prices
these funds were not expected to be required to compensate for high-cost im-
ports, part of the funds were transferred to General Revenue to help finance
the 1976/77 national budget.
19.       Import Prices.  The Kenyan Government concluded four sugar import
contracts, totaling 40,250 t, in October 1975 for delivery betwen December
1975 and June 1976. The price ranged from KShs. 3,196-3,440/t c & f Mombasa.
The cost of insurance averaged about KShs. 55/t, resulting in an average
import price of KShs. 3,410/t c.i.f. Mombasa. With port charges amounting to
KShs. 108/t, the landed cost was KShs. 3,518/t, before duties. Import prices
from 1980 onwards are forecast at KShs. 3,959/t c.i.f. Mombasa in constant
March 1977 prices (Table 9).
20.       Price Policy.  The relative deterioration of the price of sugarcane
with respect to the factory and retail price of sugar is likely to have been
a disincentive to cane producers and to have contributed to the shortages of
cane in the Nyanza Sugar Belt. The major impact of the relative decline in
cane prices is likely to have been the concomitantly increasing financial
risk to farmers associated with droughts. Farmers are apparently shifting



ANNEX 4
Page 7
to a low input-low output production regime (i.e., low levels of cash inputs
and longer replanting cycle) when, in their view, the expected net returns in
a normal rainfall year are not sufficient to compensate for possible losses
or prolonged indebtedness resulting from a drought year. A significant in-
crease in cane prices, to the equivalent of 50-55% of the ex-mill sugar price,
would stimulate outgrowers' production and provide an immediate response to
alleviate the problem of underutilization of sugar factories. With a (1976)
factory margin of KShs. 1,250/t the cane value would have to be in the range
of KShs. 1,250 - 1,528/t of sugar, or KShs. 125.00 - 152.80/t of cane in 1976
prices, to achieve the indicated cane to sugar value ratio, assuming 10% ex-
tractable sucrose; for 1977, this range has to be adjusted for inflation.
Based on the Project's financial analysis, a price of about KShs. 155/t would
be desirable after 1979 (Annex 20). The price proposed by KSA for 1977 is
KShs.150/t, but Government is expected to adopt a price of only KShs. 132/t.
It was agreed at negotiations that the 1977 price would be fully adjusted for
inflation in 1978 and 1979, and that an incentive margin of at least 6% would
be added after adjustment for inflation in each of those years. Government
would review the prices of sugarcane and sugar annually and submit to the Bank
a report on the outcome of the reviews.
21.       The factory margin obtained in 1976 was expected to greatly improve
the financial results of the sugar companies and considered adequate by
company managers. KSA is proposing a factory price of KShs. 2,900/t for 1977,
implying a factory margin of KShs. 1,400/t. The evaluation is based on a fac-
tory price of KShs.3,050/t from 1980 onwards, which is not inconsistent with
Government's long-term pricing policy. The margin and operating costs of the
factories would be reviewed, and factory prices adjusted annually.
22.       Trade margins, accounting for 7.3% of the retail price in 1976
appear reasonable, if not on the low side, and will require upward adjustment
to at least compensate traders and KNTC for cost increases due to inflation.
23.       The 1976 retail price of sugar is high by historical Kenyan and by
international standards. However, as long as there exist domestic shortages
it is appropriate to discourage consumption through the price mechanism within
reasonable limits. The apparent average 1976 consumption level of about 13 kg
per capita can be considered reasonable on a temporary basis, particularly
when compared with Tanzania.    A decrease in the real price of sugar would
again result in higher consumption. Only a gradual reduction is recommended,
however, to restrict the growth to a level which is consistent with the growth
in production expected from new investments. Such a policy would minimize
import requirements until 1980 when Kenya would most likely become self-
sufficient if the current plans for expansion in domestic production, i.e.
four projects, were successfully implemented.
24.       After 1980, the potentially rapid increase in the domestic supply
of sugar, which itself is an uncertainty, could only be absorbed within the
country for a few years and only if the consumer price of sugar were dras-
tically reduced. By 1982 or 1983, no further reductions in price would be
possible, however, without resorting to subsidies, and surpluses would most
likely develop. The data in Table 6 show that these surpluses are estimated
to be at least in the range of 40,000 - 90,000 t in the peak year, depending



ANNEX 4
Page 8
on the price elasticity of demand, and would occur over a period of five
to ten years. The surpluses would exceed these levels to the extent that
Government continued to levy an excise tax on sugar. The disposal of sur-
pluses represents a risk factor as, for example, the projected export parity
price for South Nyanza (factory gate) is just about equal, or slightly below,
the recommended ex-mill price of sugar produced under the Project. However,
the South Nyanza Sugar Company would have a comparative disadvantage in
production for export among Kenyan sugar companies on account of location
and cane yields and, hence, exports might still be profitable for other
companies. Consequently, and in view of the modest magnitude of the projected
surpluses; the desirability of establishing some buffer stocks above the
projected requirements for consumption; the uncertainties surrounding some of
the proposed investments; and the fact that a market analysis like this, i.e.
based on Kenya's overvalued currency, understates the country's comparative
advantage in sugar production, the risk for this Project associated with the
marketing of the resulting output is not considered large enough to pose
serious problems.
25.       To assure appropriate and timely action, it was agreed at negotia-
tions that Government would keep the projected production and consumption
of sugar in Kenya under continuous review and that a report of such a review,
including anticipated investments in the sugar industry over the following
three-year period, would be submitted to the Bank annually; the report
would also describe plans for marketing all sugar estimated to be produced
in Kenya over the next three-year period. It was further agreed that the
Bank would be informed of and given an opportunity to comment on any plans
to promote or invest in substantial additional sugar milling facilities.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 4
KENYA                             Table 1
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1974 AND 1975 1/
(KShs. Million)
1974                                              1975
A. BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fixed Assets                                                             2.04                                              1.96
Subsidiary Company                                                       0.17                                              0.23
Trade Investment                                                         0.60                                              0.60
Current Assets                                                          73.70                                             82.75
Total                                                        76.51                                             85.54
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liability                                                       66.93                                             72.94
Capital                                                                  2.00                                              2.00
Retained Earnings                                                        7.58                                             10.60
Total                                                        76.51                                             85.54
B. INCOME STATEMENT
Sugar    Cement    Salt   Other    Total          Sugar    Cement    Salt   Other   Total
Sales                              376.76   105.04    9.06    26.47  517.53          522.13   136.59   11.14    12.49  682.35
Cost of Sales                      368.96   103.87    8.68    26.65  508.16          512.99   135.25    8.61    12.21  669.06
Gross Margin                         7.80      1.17    0.58      (0.18)   9.37         9.14      1.34    2.53       0.28   13.29
% of Total                     83%       12%       6%       (1%)                 69%       10%      19%        2%
Expenditures
Salaries and Benefits                                                    5.06                                              ,.94
Administrative Expenses                                                  2.73                                              3.55
Depreciation                                                             0.41                                              0.14
Inventories Written Off
and Others                                                            0.20                                               0.08
Subtotal                                                      8.40                                              9.71
Other Income (Expenses)
Copmmgsion and Others                                                    5.39                                              3.98
Bank Charges and Interest                                               (0.11)                                            (0.88)
Subtotal                                                      5.28                                              3.10
Profit Before Taxation                                                     6.25                                              6.68
Taxation                                                                 2.87                                              3.06
P'rofit After Taxation                                                     3.38                                              3.62
1/    For fiscal yea:s ending June 30.
Source: KNTC, Annual Accounts and Report 1974/75.
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 2
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
POPULATION AND SUGAR SUPPLY AND DISAPPEARANCE, 1955 - 76
Sugar
Year      Population         Production        Imports  Domestic Disappearance 2/
1/      Total      Per Capita
('000)            -----------  ('000  t)    -- ---------  (kg)
1955         7,001               17               38         55           7.9
1956         7,207               20               45         65           9.0
1957         7,419               20               49         69           9.3
1958         7,640               28               43         71           9.3
1959         7,872               28               50         78           9.9
1960         8,115               30               58         88         10.8
1961         8,37i               33               60         93          11.1
1962         8,641               33               67        100         11.6
1963         8,924               38               60         98         11.0
1964         9,219               35               70        105         11.4
1965         9,527               29               83        112         11.8
1966         9,847               36               85        121         12.3
1967        10,180               60               61        121         11.9
1968        10,526               81               51        132         12.5
1969        10,881              115               27        142         13.1
1970        11,247              125               32        157         14.0
1971        11,622              124               64        188         16.2
1972        12,008               90              102        195         16.2
1973        12,406              149               66        215         17.3
1974        12,819              164               61        225         17.6
1975        13,251              161               33        194         14.6
1976 3/     13,701              170                2        172         12.6
1/  Includes stock changes.
2/ For purposes of this analysis, domestic disappearance is
synonymous with consumption.
3/ Tentative estimate.
Source: World Bank, Population and Human Resources Division;
Kenya Sugar Authority
November 30, 1976



KENYA
50ITH NYANSA S-UGAR PROJECT
SUGAR SIIfTLY AND DISPOSITION, BY MONTh 1974
Jury                                               Febru - arrly                  J                Jul             Als_t    e-tener                  Detobor         ;oveber          December _       TOTAL
(tons)
A.  Store
In Store 1/                     16,305          22,524           16,542          42,432'          33,025          49,194'          50,485          53.379           54,413           50,42S          44,977           43,731
With Ag-nts /                    4,342           3.4j92           6.991           * .983           f ,572           5,292           7J388            9,0.4            9,324           4.592            2.219            1.717
Total                    20,647           96,516           23,499          48,41i           45,597          45,486           57,868          67,403           63,737           54,930           47,196          45,498
B. Production
Chenmiil                         2 795           3,22'4           3,965           1,441             --               --             3,778            5,194            4,652           4,219            5,570           4,494            39,332
M.ianA                           3,425           9,746            '.530           .,189            3,324            3,105           2,070            2,445            1,775           2,000            2,068           2,556            30,229
tuhboroni                        3,033           2,835            .,146           2,225)           2,632           2,378            1,881            2,965           1,909            1,920            2,739           ,,527            28,490
MliaaiN                          5,359           5,632           -9,892           2,28-1            --              5,o48           6,277           5984             1,754           5,407            6,54s           S,214            55,387
Ramisi                           1201            1,111            1.158             395              826              714             848              868             870              873            1.074              93.            O8ro70
Total                    15,813           io,948           15,f91           8,526            6,782          11,245           14,854           16,756          10,960           14,419           17,991         15,723            164,3o8
r   Iports                             9,369            __             26,t12f          3,975           11,000           18, 00          11,136             --               __              --               --               --             79,605
D. New Arailability (P 4 C            25,181         i,,48            4i,R17          If,501           17,782           29,.45          25,990           16,756           10,960          14,41.9          17,991           15,723          243,913
E. Total Availabllity (A 4 D)         45,828          41,564           65,31f          60,916           63,379          74,731           83,858           84,159           74,697          69,349           65,187           61,221
F. Cn.snoption /                      19,812          i8,o65           16,Qo0           15,319          is,895           16, 63          16,455           20,422           19,767          22,153           19,689           20,272          223,611
1 CarrY-over (2 - El
In Store                        22,524           16,-49          4.,43.          39(,6            40,194          50,480           58,374           54,413          50,428           44,977           43,781           38,254
'iith Agents                    3,492           f,,,I           0,0p             6 572            5,292            7.388           9,024            9,324            4,502           2,219            1,717            2,695
Includes factor-er end  ecny. FTr-rs' AoSociatl-n.
2/ Autbo-ined wholesalers.
3/  IpclAj.ud   industritl use.
Source:  Ministry of Comnerce and Industry.
Scpt-b,er 30, 1976



KENYA'
SOUTH NVYANJhUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR SUPPLY AND DISPOSITION, BY MONTH, 1975
January        Februar        March          April           May            June            July           August          September      October         November       Dve.mber        TOTAL
A. Storage
In Store                      38,254         35,859         31,358          28,881         23,805          17,589         15,993          16,469         16,123          15,373         11,550           6,779
With Agents _J 2.6M                           4,806          9i6             8.205          6,022          2.715           2.400          4.955           4,272           3,456          2,217           4.271
Total                   40,949         40,665         40,714          37,086         29,827          20,304         18,393         21,424          20,395          i8,829         13,767          11,050
B  Production
Chaelil                       5,393           5,oo6          3,763            --             --             3,380          4,8o4          3,982           3,054           2,888          4,135           3,6o6          4o,ol5
Miwan                          3,101          3,085          2,447           2,276          2,450           2,001          1,621           1,460          1,352           1 975          2,588           2,355          26,711
Muhoroni                      2,825           2,050          2,114           2,210          9,986           1,708          2,283          2,oc4           2,011           2,043          2,571           2,250          26,355
Munias                         6,522          4,574          6,495           1,528            767           5,554          7,285           6,536          6,of5           3,615          4,247           5,958          59,146
Risi                            998             826            645             io4           _---B 579                                      802             848             825            89              893           7.414
Total                   08,843         15,541          15,464          b,118          5,503          31,643         16,572          i4,784         13,330          11,346         14,435          15,862          159,641
C. 20p0545                           __              --                    --                      -- __                         1,222                           --             --              --            9,500           10,722
D. New Availabilhty(B t C)         18,843          i5,54i         15,464          6,118           5,503          12,643         17,794         14,784          13,330         1u,346          14,435          24,562         170,363
E. Total Availability(A * D)       59,792          56,206         56,178         43,204          35,330         32,947          36,187         36,208          33,725         30,175          28,202          35,612
F. Consu,ptiou j                   19,117          15 ,492        t9,09%         13,377          15,026          14,554         14,763         15,813          14,896          16,408         17,152          18,012         193,712
G. arrv-ovcr (F - E)
In Store                      35,859         31,358         28,881          23,805         17,589          15,993         16,469          16,123         15,373          11,550          6,779          13,323
With Agents                    4,806          9,356          8,205           6,022          2,715           2,400          4,955           4,272          3,456           2,217          4,271           4,277
i/ Include, faotoriec and Kenya Farers' Assooiation.
2J Authorized wholesalers.
I Onoludem industrial use.
Source: Ministry of Coerce and Industry
Septeober 3 , 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR SUPPLY AND DISPOSITION, BY MONTH, JANUARY - SEPTEMBER 1976
January   February    March        April        May       June        July      August      September
(tons)
A. Storage
In Store 1/                 13,323      12,362    24,111       28,483     23,209      27,813      24,036    22,216        30,911
With Agents 2/                4,277      5,794      5,852       6,742       6,155      5,077       4,198      4,759        8,244
Total             17,600      18,156    29,963      35,225      29,364      32,890     28,234    26,975        39,155
B. Production
Chemelil                      4,473      4,567      5,477         --          384      4,167       4,628      4,848        4,112
Miwani                        2,785      2,708      2,911       1,905       2,399      2,047       1,705      1,612        1,764
Muhoroni                      2,581      2,473      3,156       2,910       2,617      2,560       2,266      1,339           78
Mumias                        5,931      5,872      5,134       3,334         --         --        3,907      7,404        7,215
Ramisi                          769         557       327         --          --         --          --         287          846
Total             16,539      16,177    17,005       8,149       5,364       8,774     12,506    15,490        14,015
C.  Imports                         --        9,750     1,780         --       12,100         --          --      9,965            92
D.  New Availability (B+C)       16,539      25,927    18,785       8,149      17,464       8,744     12,506    25,455        14,107
E.  Total Availability (A+D)   34,139        44,083    48,748      43,374      46,828      41,664     40,740    52,430        53,262
F.  Consumption 3/               15,983      14,120    13,523      14,010      13,938      13,430     13,765    13,275        13,859
G.  Carry-over (F-E)
In Store                    12,362      24,111    28,483       23,209      27,813     24,036      22,216    30,911        30,995           X
With Agents                   5,794      5,852      6,742       6,155       5,077       4,198      4,759      8,244        8,408
0
1/  Includes factories and Kenya Farmers' Association.
2/ Authorized wholesalers.
3/ Includes industrial use.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry
November 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR PRODUCTION, BY COMPANY, 1974 - 75 ACTUAL, 1976 - 90 PROJZCTED
('000 Tons)
Total Production
Year    Ramisi       Muhoroni    Chemelil    Miwani        Mumias      Nzoia        S. Nyanza    Without New           With New Investmuxts
/  S/          7/           2]          7/          7            g                      Investments  /       Excluding       Including
Improvement    Improvement
Project  7/    Project   /
1974      11           28          39           30           56          --           --             164                164             164
1975       9           27          40           28           57          --           __             161                161             161
1976       9           27          41           27           66          --                          170                170             170
1977       9           27          41           23           75          --           __             175                175             175
1978       9           28          41           25           76          __           _              179                179             179
1979      10           29          43           29           78          --           --             189                189             189
1980      13           31          46           31           88          28           25             189                252             262
1981      18           35          48           34          100          36           35             189                282             306
1982      25           45          52           34          110          48           45             189                314             359
1983      30           55          54           36          120          52           56             189                339             403
1984      30           55          55           4o          130          57           54             189                352             421
1985      30           55          56           44          14o          60           75             189                386             460
1986      30           55          56           44          150          60           80             189                401             475
1987      30           55          56           44          156          60           87             189                414              488
1988      30           55          56           44          156          60           89             189                416             490
1989      30           55          56           44          156          60           84             189                411              485
1990      30           55          56           44          156          60           90             189                417              491
7 An alternative development plan proposed by the owner aims at a maximum production of only 25,500 t by 1981.
E  Proposed to be included in Sugar Industry Improvement Project.
3   Minor expansion from 45,000t/year capacity to 76,00ot/year undertaken in 1976; major expansion planned for
1978/79 is assumed to affect production from 1980 onwards.
4/ New project under implementation in Western Province.
/ From Annex 20, Table 5; assuming expansion to an annual capacity of 90,000 tons.
Assumes that 1979 production levels at REmisi, Muhoroni, Chemelil and Miwani will be achieved without
Improvement Project; and no major expansion is undertaken at Mumias.
7/ Includes projected production in existing factories without improvement, plus major expansion at Mumias
and implementation of the Nzoia and South Nyanza projects.
Includes major expansion at Mumias, implementation of the Nzoia and South Nyanza Projects and improvement of
the Ramisi, Muhoroni, Chemelil and Miwani factories; full production levels for the latter are as estimated
in Tate & Lyle Technical Services, Ltd., Kenya Sugar Industry Expansion Study, 1976.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 5
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE GROWTH PATHS OF SUGAR CONSUMPTION, 1977 - 90 1/
Annual Per Capita Growth: 3.5%   Annual Per Capita Growth: 4.5%
Year     Population         Per Capita         Total          Per Capita          Total
Consumption      Consumption      Consumption      Consumption
(Million)          (Kg)            ('000t)            (Kg)            ('0oot)
1977          14.2            13.4              190             13.4               190
1978          14.7            13.9              204             14.0               205
1979          15.2            14.4              219             14.6               222
1980          15.7            14.9              234             15.3               240
1981          16.2            15.4              249             16.0               259
1982          16.8            15.9              267             16.7               281
1983          17.4            16.5              287             17.5               305
1984          18.0            17.0              306             18.2               328
1985          18.6            17.6              327             19.1               355
1986          19.3            18.3              353             19.9               384
1987          19.9            18.9              376             20.8               414
1988          20.6            19.6              404             21.7               447
1989          21.4            20.2              432             22.7               486
1990          22.1            21.0              464             23.7               524
1/ The projections in this table do not represent a demand
forecast but merely show the implications on total demand
if per capita consumption levels were to grow smoothly at
3.5% and 4.5% per year, respectively.
November 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND ALTERNATIVE LEVELS OF CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR
PROJECTIONS FOR 1977 - 1990
Domestic                   Price Elasticity of Demand - -1.00                                      Price Elasticity of Demand - -1.50
Sugar j      Retail      Excise      Per Capita       Total         Surplus (i)      Retail     Excise      Per Capita        Total         Surplus (.)
Year    Population    Production   Price  /       Tay %/    Consumrption    Consumption    Deficit (-)    Price 3/    Tax 3/    Consumptioni   Consumption    Deficit (-)
(o000o       ('ooot)      -(KShs. per Ton)--    ---(Kg)----    -----------('OOOt)--------    -(KShs. per Ton)--    ---_(Kg)__ _---        ------('OoOt)---------
1977      14,170          175          4,700     1,210          13.4            190            -15            4,700      1,210         13.4            190              -15
1978      14,658          179          4,544     1,054         14.0            205              -26           4,595      1,105         14.0            205              -26
1979      15,164          189          4,393        903        14,6            222              -33           4,492      1,002         14.6            222              -33
1980      15,688          262          3,886        396        16.7            26                --           4,132        642         16.7            26                --
1981      16,230          306          3,490        __         18.8            305             + 1             3,831       341         18.9            306               __
1982      16,792          359          3,490        --          19.0            319            +40            3,540         50         21.4            359               --
1983      17,374          403          3,490        --          19.2           333              +70           3,490 o-                 22.1            383              +20
1984      17,978          421          3,490        --         19,4            349             +72            3,490         __         22.3            4o1              +20
1985      18,605          460          3,490 o       -         19.6            365             +95            3,490         __         22.5            419              +41
1986      19,255          475          3,490        --          19.8           382              493            3,490        __         22.8            439              +36
1987      19,928          488          3,490        --         20.0            399              +89            3,490         __        23.o             459             +29
1988      2o,626          490          3,490        --         20.3            418              +72            3,490         __        23.3             480             +10
1989      21,351          485          3,490        --         20.5            437              +48            3,490        __         23.5            502              -17
1990      22,102          491          3,490        --          20.7           457              +34            3,490        --         23.8            526              -35
1/  From Table 4.
Z/ The retail prices, expressed in 1977 value terms, for the period 1977-79 reflect required reductions
to achieve a 4.59 annual growth rate in per capita consumption; thereafter, prices are further reduced
as necessary to absorb the increased domestic production and,eventually,to the level (KShs. 3,490/t) where
retail prices equal the ex-mill price of sugar (KShs. 3,050/t) plus the cost of sugar distribution.
3/ Calculated as the differential between the retail price and the cost of sugar at the point of distribution.
3   Based on the assumptions of a rise in per capita real income of 2.7% p.a., an income elasticity of demand
of 0.4, and price elasticity of demand of -1.0; no price effect on demand is assumed after the year when
the retail price first equals the cost of production plus distribution.
5/  given the assumptions underlying the supDly and demand projections, the projected surpluses represent practical
minima, i.e. would be higher if Government continued to levy some tax on sugar.
6/ Same as footnote 4,except the price elasticity of demand is assumed at -1.5.
January 20, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 7
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR PRICES, I966 - 76 ACITTAL, 1977 FORECAST
Effective Date
October       April       March       February       March       January    January
1966         1969        1972         1974          1975         1976        1977
(forecast)
(KShs. per Ton)
A. Prices of Sugar
Paid to Factory                       919           905       1,080       1,230          1,860       2,300       3,050
Excise Duty                        n.a.             441         441         441            441         441       L,000
Ex-factory Price                 n.a.          1,346       1,521        1,671          2,301       2,741
Sugar Equalization Levy            n.a.             100         100         500            800       1,362         213
Distribution Cost                  n.a.              25          49          49             71           70         77
Price to KNTC                    n.a.           1,471       1,670       2,220          3,172       4,173       4,340
KNTC Margin                        n.a.              18          18          18             38          32          35
KNTC Selling Price               n.a.          1,489       1,688        2,238          3,210       4,205       4,375
Wholesale Margin                   n.a.              34          34          34             40          45           0
W.holesale Price                 n.a.          1,523       1,722        2,272          3,250       4,250        , 5
Retail Margin                      n.a.             127         128         128            250         250         275
Retail Price                     1,550         1,650        1,850       2,400          3,500       4,500       4,700
B.  Price of Sugar Cane 1/                  46            52          52          62              92         105         155
C. Increases
Price to Factory (%)               n.a.          -1.5         19.3        13.9           51.2        23.7         32.6
KNTC Margin       (%)              n.a.           n.a.           0           0          111.1       -15.8          9.4
Wholesale Margin (%)               n.a.           n.a.           0           0           17.6        12.5         11.1
Retail Margin    (%)               n.a.          n.a.          0.8           0           95.3           0         10.0
Retail Price      (%)              n.a.            6.5        12.1        29.7           45.8        28.6          4.4
Cane Price        (%)              n.a.          13.0            0        19.2           48.4        14.1         47.6
D. Ratios
Cane Price/Factory Price           o.050          0.057       0.048       0,050          0.049       0.046        0.051
Cane Price/Retail Price            0O030          0.032       0.028       0.026          0.026       0.023        0.033
Factory Price/Retail Price         0.593          0.548       0.584       0.513          0.531       0.511        o.649
1/  At Ramisi, cane prices averaged about KShs. 2/t less than the prices indicated.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
December 30. I976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
NATIONAL SUGAR ACCOUNT, 1970 - 76 1/
(KShs. Million)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975             1976
July 1 -
May 31       June 1
Accumulated Fund,
Beginning of Year/Period        39.4       38.2       31.9      51.5       15.5       82.9       61.9        313.1
Expenditures 2/                  205.4      245.1      288.2     377.8      467.4      563.1      362.1        n.a.
Revenue 3/                       204.2      238.8      307.8     341.8      534.8      525.1      613.3        n.a.
Profit (Loss)                     (1.2)      (6.3)      19.6      (36.0)      67.4      (21.0)    251.2        n.a.
1/  Accounting years, July 1 - June 30.
2/  Includes the cost of local purchases from factories and imports, plus                                       lb
commissions and the cost of storage, handling and transport.                                                X M
3/  Includes proceeds from the sale to wholesalers.                                                               >
Source: Chief Accountant, Office of the President.
November 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PRICE STRUCTURE OF IMPORTED SUGAR
1980 Onwards
1975/76     Financial                       Economic
-/ SWithout Shadow-pricing   With Shadow-pricing
of Foreign Exchange    of Forei   Exchange
World Market, Raw  /            IIS/lb                     15.2                   15.2                     15.2-
Refining Margin                 US/lb                       5.1                    4.1                      4 4.1  6i
Subtotal      US/lb                      20.3                   19.3                     19.3
Ocean Freight                   USO/lb                       1.0                     1.0                     1.0
Total c & f Mombasa             US/lb                      21.3                   20.3                     20.3
-_____________________----- (KShs./t) ------------------------------
Total c & f Mombasa                         3,327        3,897                  3,715                    4,923
Insurance (1.6%)                               54           62                     62                       62
Subtotal                  3,381        3,959                  3,777 
Dockage (1.5%)                                 51           59                     59                       68   /
Offloading                                     12           12                     12                       12
Port Handling                                  29           30                      30                      30
Transport (Dock-side)                          13           13                      13                      15   /
Agency Fee (K.F.A.)                             3            3                       3                       3
Subtotal Landed             487,76                    3       897                      5,113 1 /
Customs Duty 2/                               441
Total Inland Cost         3,930
Storage (Dock-side)  L/                        19
Cost ex Mombasa           3,949
Rail Freight to Nairobi LO/                   104
Cost, Railside Nairobi   4,053
2 Expressed in terms of March, 1977 constant prices (i.e. 2% above 1976 constant price forecast).
/ Average of three contracts, totaling 30,250 t, all concluded in October 1975 with suppliers
from Ireland, CSSR, and the United Kingdom and delivered in December 1975, February 1976 and May, 1976,
respectively.
3/  Converted at an exchange rate of KShs. 8.3 = US$ 1.00.
Converted at an exchange rate of KShs. 11.0    US$ 1.00.
5/ F.o.b. and stowed at Caribbean ports.
Refining margin reduced by US 1.0/lb to account for difference in degree of refining
between imported and domestic sugar.
7   Assuming a 50% foreign exchange component.
Import parity price used in economic analysis (Annex 21).
/  Customs duty was raised from KShs. 441/t to KShs. l,000/t in June 1976.
TO/ Inland storage and local distribution costs from Mombasa are assumed to be identical to similar
costs incurred for domestically produced sugar ex-mill gate.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA - GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND CLIMATIC FACTORS
Location, Roads and Population
1.        The proposed Project area is located 50 km south of Kisii in South
Nyanza District of Nyanza Province. South Nyanza District is situated just
south of the equator and is bordered by Tanzania and Lake Victoria. It is
an agricultural area which is mostly devoted to subsistence crops and livestock
grazing and only marginally to cash crops. Part of the District is under
forest maintained by the Forestry Department. The peasants are generally
considered as better farmers than those in the Province's Sugar Belt which
is located east of Kisumu, the Provincial capital. The natural vegetation
consists of grass and scattered trees (savannah) and strips of riverine
forest along some of the streams. The Gucha river and its tributaries Sare
and Oyani drain the area. The Sare river flows through Awendo, the main
township in the3area, and close by the proposed factory site. Its dry-spell
flow is 0.112m per second which easily meets the factory, township and down-
stream water requirements and offers some potential for irrigation.
2.        The gross hectarage of the proposed Project area is approximately
77,000 ha situated roughly within a 16 km radius of Awendo between Rongo in
the north and Oyani market in the south. Part of this (3,410 ha) would be
reserved for the factory and the nucleus estate, the remainder would be
potential outgrowers' area. The nucleus estate would have a net cane area of
2,650 ha. In the outgrowers' area of which 51% is suitable for cane growing,
about 15,850 ha of cane area would be needed eventually, which would be about
51% of the suitable land.
3.        The A-1 national highway traverses the area from north to south and
passes near Awendo. This high-standard, well-aligned road has a 5.5 m
bituminous carriageway with one meter wide shoulders and generally two meter
wide side ditches. The other existing roads in the area are all of a gravel
standard and are generally good near the A-1 highway, but deteriorate grad-
ually with the distance from the A-1. A number of tracks also cross the
area, their passabilitiy depending on the vehicle type and the season. Most
of the roads and tracks have a satisfactory alignment. However, at present,
some of the bends are too sharp and some gradients too steep for cane trans-
port. Most of the roads and tracks are considered to be a good basis for the
construction of sugar transportation roads.
4.        The total population in the Project area is approximately 95,000
people, or 123 persons/km . This compares with a population density of 116
persons/km  for the District as a whole, and 306 persons/km  in the neigh-
boring Kisii District. The average family size is seven persons. Awendo
township is a small market place and trading center. Of the total of about
13,600 families in the Project area, 500-600 would be displaced by the



ANNE.; 5
Page 2
Project's nucleus estate. The displaced people, who would be fully compen-
sated for the loss of their land and immovable property, would be given
hiring preferency by the sugar company, acquire land within the outgrowers
part of the Project area and participate in the outgrowers program, or move
outside the Project area with Government assistance, if requested. The
predominant tribe in the area is the Luo.
Land Tenure and Type of Farming
5.        In the Project area, about 20% of the land is under cultivation
and approximately 20% is fallow. The large portion of uncultivated land is
due to the relatively large average farm size of six hectares, the favorable
growing conditions under which enough subsistence crops for the farm family
can be produced on a fraction of the total holding, and the absence of
commercial infrastructure to dispose of surplus crops. Practically all land
is owned by its occupants. Land adjudication has been virtually completed in
the area designated for the nucleus estate, and is expected to be completed
in 1977 for the 50% of the outgrowers area which has not yet been covered.
6.        The major crop in the area is maize, followed by other subsistence
crops such as millet, cassava, sweet potatoes, beans and groundnuts. Sisal
plants are used for marking farm and homestead boundaries, and in some places
eucalyptus trees are grown near homesteads. The poorly drained areas are
mostly used for grazing, although maize and sugarcane are also grown in these
areas. The number of cattle in the area is about 500,000. Sugarcane is the
main cash crop in the Project area with a total area of several thousand
hectares. Maintenance of the cane is extremely poor and, consequently,
yields are low due mainly to the low prices paid by the jaggery factories,
the only commercial outlet. The level of agricultural technology employed
in sugar production is low; shallow bullock ploughing is a general practice,
drainage and weed control are rarely done and harvesting is irregular. In
1970, a tobacco project was started just south of the Project area; 900
farmers participated in the project in 1975. British American Tobacco Com-
pany buys the leaves and provides the farmers with seedlings and advice.
Within the Project area, the Migori-Uriri area may be designated as a tobacco
production area, but at present it is not anticipated that more than 200 ha
will be used. Tobacco is a very profitable crop for farmers.
Rainfall
7.        Rainfall records exist for five stations in the Project area and
for two in the vicinity, but most of these records are for short periods of
time and their reliabilitiy varies greatly. The rainfall statistics for the
Project area are thus very scanty as regards both area coverage and, with one
exception, lengths of records, and provide a weak though useable basis for
assessment of the incidence and severity of the "dry spells" common to the
area. Of the stations in the Project area, only the record for Uriri,
located about 5 km south of Awendo, the geographic center of the Project
area, and about 100 m higher in elevation than most of its productive land,
is of sufficient duration for analysis (32 years); and even this record



ANNEX 5
Page 3
contains a number of gaps and some questionable entries. The available
monthly and yearly rainfall data for Uriri for the years 1956-75 and, for
comparison, yearly values during the same period for Chemelil, located in
the Sugar Belt about 50 km east of Kisumu, are given in Table 1.
8.        The Project feasibility report, which is the only document contain-
ing extended discussion of rainfall and evaporation and their relationships
to crop yields in the Project area, provides the following summary:
"Rainfall in the (Project) area is fairly well distrib-
uted. There is, however, a surplus of rain from March to
May and deficiency from December to February. The cane
is likely to show stress in the dry spell, particularly
on soil Unit 3..."
This statement, and some of the underlying analysis, is inaccurate as briefly
outlined below. Aside from the facts that some of the data gaps were filled
by interpolation, that there commonly are two dry periods each year rather
than one, and that the statement:  "Rainfall...is fairly well distributed"
hardly seems an accurate description of an area that experiences a "deficiency
from December to February," there are several fundamental inaccuracies in the
discussion of rainfall presented in the feasibility report. Most important,
the average annual rainfall for the entire Project area is taken as the Uriri
rainfall multiplied by 1.1, and the dry spell (December-February) rainfall is
taken as equal to that of Uriri for the period. Disregarding the uncertain-
ties involved in obtaining these interpolation factors (1.1 and 1.0, respec-
tively), it is clear from inspection of the environment, review of rainfall
data and reference to the isohyets on Map IBRD 12431 (which indicate the
rainfall level that is exceeded three years in four), firstly, that average
annual "dependable" rainfall differences of 300 mm or more exist between the
southwestern and the northeastern portions of the Project area. Secondly, use
in the feasibility report's analysis of the factor 0.86 (instead of the
commonly used 0.7) for estimating the annual water requirement of cane from
pan evaporation data (from Migori) yielded an unrealistically high value
(i.e., 1,643 mm) which is not consistent with experience elsewhere. Thirdly,
there is not a valid basis for assuming that under ideal conditions the
potential yield in tons per ha per year is equal to the average annual rain-
fall in centimeters. Fourth, the "carry-over" (water storage) capacity of
these soils, while appreciable, is not as large as assumed (150 mm) mainly
because the rooting depth of cane is not very great in most soils of southwest
Kenya. Lastly, in using the Uriri rainfall data no allowance was made for the
fact that rainfall increases markedly with elevation in southwest Kenya, and,
as Uriri is about 100 m higher than most of the Project area, its rainfall
undoubtedly is higher than that of most of the Project area.
9.        Analysis of the available rainfall data indicates the following:
(a) the average annual rainfall at Uriri is 1,350 mm; the
range in average rainfall three years in four for the
Project area as a whole is 1,150 - 1,350 mm, increasing
from southwest to northeast;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(b) there is a "severe" dry spell of 3 months or more in
the Project area at least one year in five (in which the
rainfall is no more than about half the consumptive use
requirement for the period);
(c) whereas the standard deviation of the average annual
rainfall 1/ is about 20% (i.e., is within 20% of the mean
two years in three) the standard deviation of the monthly
values exceeds 50% (i.e., the deviation from the mean
exceeds 50% at least one year in three) except in March,
April, September and October, and averages about 40% in
these months;
(d) there seems to be no significant difference in average
monthly or yearly rainfall, pan evaporation, consumptive
use requirements or incidence of severe dry spells between
the Project area and Chemelil and Muhoroni in the Sugar
Belt, but the years of deficiency in the two areas seldom
correspond.
10.       The implications for the growing of sugarcane of the rainfall
pattern in the Project area are summarized below. Precise yield estimates
are presented in Annex 7.
(a) in about one year in five availability of water is 10-20%
below the average, representing a mild constraint;
(b) lack of water is a severe constraint one year in five when
the deficiency is much greater than 20%;
(c) these deficiencies would reduce cane yields about 15% and
35% respectively, or the "drought factor" on average
reduces cane yields about 10% per year over a five-year
cycle; and
(d) the apparent "resistance to drought" of cane in south-
western Kenya is most likely the result of overestimating
its water requirements.
Temperature
11.       There are few and scattered temperature records in the Project
area. It is known, however, that the temperatures are on the low side for
cane. This is an unfavorable factor in that the plant crop requires about
20-22 months and the ratoons 18-20 months to mature; however, it is favor-
able in that owing to the relatively cool weather the percent of sugar in
1/   For Uriri, Rapogi and Migori (a total of 71 years of records).



ANNEX 5
Page 5
the juice is relatively high and the sugar content decreases slower than is
usually the case with delay in harvesting after maturity, and processing
after cutting.
Other Climatic Factors
12.       Hailstorms occur in the autumn, perhaps one year in two or three,
in scattered areas but have little effect on the production of cane. Io
local data is available on wind, but the East African Mieteorological Depart-
ment indicates that severe thunderstorms with short wind gusts up to 150 km
per hour can be expected at intervals of many years. Local data on humidity
also is not available but, as judged from a small amount of open pan evapora-
tion data, the average humidity of the Project area differs little from
Chemelil and M4umias where no unfavorable effects are attributed to humidity
conditions. Sunshine duration has not been measured in the Project area but
can be safely assumed to average between 7 and 8 hours per day as in most
places in South Nyanza District where it has been measured; this sunshine
duration is sufficient for good cane growth.
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUCAR PROJECT
MONTHLY RAINFALL IN URIRI 2 L/SOUTH NYANZA DISTRICT
AND YEARLY RAINFALL IN CHEMELIL, ,:/SUGAR BELT
(Millimeters)
URIRI
Year   Jan,   Feb.    March   April   May         June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.           Year       CHEMELIL
1956   116       91      84      225     165      121       67      71       65      158      39       91       1,293         1,456
1957    63       68     175      218     238      137       16      57      171       96     104       85       1,428           909
1958   112      113     232      146     172       95      144     152       37     239      105      181       1,728           986
1959    62      L14     149       89      59        0       38      30      126      132     138       85       1,023         1,116
1960    68      139     167      154     148       96        0      --       --      51       76       25         922 _/    (1,324)  /
1961     3      106     170      226     159       32        3      72      144      122     354      220       1,611         1,645
1962   103       38     200      283     162      135       38      51       56      i45      53       74       1,338         1,702
1963   147       73     120      404      124     129       52      28       4o       63     240      173       1,593         1,474
1964    40     210      131      182      93       66       14      78       84       91      60       74       1,123         1,500
1965    31       11     lo4       95     III       66       66      56       90       99     220       62       1,012         1,180
1966    67       62     238      214      64       51       35      60       76      173     164       19       1,224         1,321
1967     0       55      62      320              LUL        2      38      190     233      197      116       i,404         1,441
1968    10      188     154      214     120      113       64     136       77      L65     147      134       1,522         1,372
1969    96      124     196       71     212       50       20      41       41       99     197       76       1,223         1,416
1970   236       29     254      224     103       28        0     127       68       41      62       77       1,251         i,484
1971     9        0      46      277     210       76       35      76      113       10      88       78       1,017         1,371
1972    75      119     140      169     169       34       38     134       --     232      252      lo4       1,466  /    (1,671)  /
1973   105      136      50      244     214      142       60      92      196      118     284       62       1,701         1,279
1974    57       38     206      348      66       71      165      48      142       82     120       57       1,400         1,198
1975    46       34     191      195     174      132      190      49      147      179     115       45       1,4L6         1,184
Average for 18 complete years    1,350            1,335
/ Obtained from the East African 'Meteorlogical Department; in about half
the cases, the yearly values differ slightly but not significantly from
those listed in the feasibility report.
From Chemelil Sugar Company Workshop Gauge.                                                                                   < >
3/ Data for year incomplete, and therefore not included in calculating average annual rainfall.
F  Not included in calculating average annual rainfall.
September 30, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOILS AND DRAINAGE
A. SOILS
Surveys and Descriptions
1.        The entire Project area of approximately 77,000 ha as well as
various parts of it have been surveyed at different times and intensities for
different purposes; and the geology, topography, vegetation, soils, climate
and agricultrue have been described in more or less detail in: (1) "Soil
Survey of the East Konyango Area," 1961, Department of Agriculture, Kenya;
(2) "Proposed South Nyanza Sugar Project, Phase I Investigations," 1974,
Mehta Group; (3) "Climate, Physiography and Land Use of Southwestern Kenya,"
1974, Agriculture University, Wageningen, the Netherlands; (4) "Migori-
Kihancha Regional Master Plan - Water and Land Utilization," 1975, Viak EA;
(5) "Kenya Sugar Industry Expansion Study," 1975, Tate and Lyle; (6) "South
Nyanza Sugar Project, Phase II Investigations," 1975, Mehta Group, and other
reports. Since (6) constitutes the "Final Feasibility Report" for the Pro-
ject, it is the primary source of the information in this Annex, the other
reports and field inspections being used for substantiation of the conclusions
and recommendations included herein. Map IBRD 12431 was adapted from the
original provided in the feasibility report.
2.        Air photos at a scale of 1:8,000, flown in 1975, were used for
mapping the soils of the proposed nucleus estate (3,420 ha), and Kenya
Topographic Survey maps (1967) at a scale of 1:50,000 provided the base for
mapping the soils of the outgrowers area which amounts to about 74,000 ha.
According to the feasibility report, the
"Occurrence and variation of soils were checked with in-
spection by auger at approximately 150 m in the Nucleus
Estate and 400 m in the outgrowers area. Pits were dug
to the depth of 1 to 2 m... The profile horizons were de-
scribed using FAO (1960) terminology and guidelines with
slight modifications. In all 96 profiles were studied.
Samples representative of each horizon of all the selected
profiles were taken ... for analysis."
Almost all the profiles studied were located in the nucleus estate area. The
chemical and physical characteristics of 16 profiles (57 samples) of the
soils judged suitable for sugarcane are summarized in the following paragraph
and their nutrient status in para. 9.
3.        The major portion of the Project area is at an elevation of 1,400
to 1,460 m (4,600 - 4,800 ft.) above sea level, and the area slopes toward
the northwest. The Project area is traversed by a number of small to moderate



ANNEX 6
Page 2
sized streams, including the Sare River, and is largely a severely dissected,
ancient peneplain consisting of a large number of very narrow to narrow
valleys, mostly separated by gently to steeply inclined land; accordingly not
much of the land is flat, about 85% of the area having a slope greater than
1%. The geology is moderately complex, consisting of mixtures of both acidic
and basic pre-cambrian primary and secondary rocks, including rhyolites,
andesites, sandstones, dacites, dolerites, basalts, tuffs and agglomerates.
Under normal conditions, the acidic parent materials weather to dark reddish-
brown, moderate to fine textured, non-swelling, slightly to moderately acidic,
well leached soils, low in calcium and magnesium but moderately high in
organic matter and in nitrogen. The more basic rocks weather into dark brown,
finer textured, moderate swelling, less acidic, less well leached soils
generally higher in calcium, magnesium, organic matter and nitrogen. Movement
of the finer soil materials downslope (erosion) and its weathering together
with mixed rocks in the wet lowland areas has resulted in the formation of
dark brown to black, very fine textured, moderately swelling, poorly drained,
slightly acidic, nutrient-rich soils, mottled red, blue and green in the
reduced (gleyed) subsoil.
4.        In addition to the effects of parent material, differences in local
topography have helped produce a definite sequence of these soils as follows:
on the ridge crests and upper slopes are found reddish or brownish, well-
drained soils of variable depth over weathered rocks or gravel; on the slopes
the soils are browner, finer, deeper, less well-drained, generally over mixtures
of coarse gravel and mottled clay; and in the valley bottoms the soils are
deep, dark brown to black, very fine textured, poorly drained, generally with
thin gravel layers interspersed with waterlogged, gleyed (mottled red-orange-
blue-green) clays. Although approximately two-thirds of the soils of the
Project area are cultivable, only about 20% is cropped annually, the cultiv-
able lands that are steep, rough, shallow or poorly drained mainly being used
for grazing. The soils are unusually high in clay content and in organic
matter for tropical soils; have moderate water holding capacities, low bulk
densities and moderate to low permeabilities and are not very erosive.
Suitability for Sugarcane
5.        A fairly detailed survey has been made of the soils of the nucleus
estate, and soils are separated into 11 classes (called Units), the first six
of which are judged suitable for profitable production of sugarcane under the
proposed Project conditions. Of the many possible characteristics that dif-
ferentiate soils (e.g., color, texture, productivity, mode of origin, depth,
clay type, structure, slope, thickness and sequence of horizons, drainability,
fertility, etc.) only need for drainage and depth of soil profile have been
used as soil classification criteria in the feasibility report. Soil units
1, 2, and 3 are well-drained and units 4, 5 and 6 are poorly drained but
would be provided with drainage facilities under the Project; about 90% of
these soils also require leveling to prepare them for cane production. The
principal difference between the soils of each of these two groups of three
in addition to need for drainage is depth to rock or gravel (i.e., potential
storage of moisture and/or rooting depth). A systematic classification is
as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Soil Unit
Profile Depth            Well Drained       Poorly Drained
Deep                             1                  4
Moderately Deep                 2                   5
Shallow                         3                   6
6.        The soils of the outgrowers area, having been surveyed in much less
detail, were separated in the survey into only three arable classes (called
Groups). Of these, only the first two Groups (I and Tb) are judged suitable
for production of cane by outgrowers and only Group I is proposed for inclu-
sion in the Project. Group I includes the above soils Units 1 and 2 (well-
drained, deep and moderately deep), whereas Group Ib includes soil Unit 3
(i.e., well-drained but relatively shallow and hence having a high drought
hazard). The Group II soils, consisting of soil Units 4, 5 and 6 which
would require drainage, and the Group Ib soils have been excluded from
consideration for production of cane in the outgrowers area. The remainder,
Groups III, ITIb, IV, and V, are considered unsuitable for any sort of
cultivation.
7.        The soil Units and their suitability for cane production in the
nucleus estates area are described in the feasibility report as follows:
Unit 1 - "Very deep, red to brown clay loams or sandy clay overlying clay
or sandy clay, free of stones and gravel at least to 120 cm depth,
occurs on ridge crests and upper slopes (0-4%), pH 5.2-5.8, low
level of N and P, no drainage limitation: very suitable."
Unit 2 - "Deep, red to brown clay loams or sandy clay surface over clay
or sandy clay, free of gravel and stones at least to 75 cm depth,
occurs on ridge crests and upper slopes (0-5%), pH1 5.1-6.1, low
levels of N and P, gravel and rock below 75-100 cm, no drainage
limitation: suitable."
Unit 3 - "Slightly shallow red to brown sandy clay loam or sandy clay loam
surface over sandy clay, free of gravel and stones at least to 50
cm depth., occurs on upper slopes (more than 3-4%), pH 4.6-5.7, low
to very low levels of nutrients and water holding capacity, gravel
below 50-75 cm depth, no drainage limitations: fairly suitable."
Unit 4 - "Very deep, dark gray-brown sandy clay loam or sandy clay over
coarse textured center overlying sandy clay or clay, gravel
often present in subsoil, found on lower ridge slopes, pH 4.8-
5.7, low levels of nutrients, subsoil permeable, poorly drained,
incursion of seepage and perched water table above impermeable
subsoil:  suitable-needs drainage."
Unit 5 - "Very deep, dark sandy or silty clay loam over poorly drained
mottled clay subsoil often with plinthite gravel and pebble
beds, occurs on lower ridge slopes, valley floors and higher



ANNEX 6
Page 4
lying flat lands, pH 4.8-6.0, low level of nutrients, low per-
meability, poorly to very poorly drained: suitable-needs effec-
tive drainage."
Unit 6 - "Very deep, complex alluvial soils of variable texture with
poorly permeable subsoil, local occurrence, poorly drained:
suitable-needs drainage."
8.        The areas included in the soil Unit separations for the entire
nucleus estate and in the soil Group separations for the entire outgrowers
area are as follows:
(a) Nucleus Estate
Soil Unit                                       (ha)
1                                           237
2           Well drained, suitable          575
3                                           838
1,650
4                                           380
5           Need drainage, suitable         763
6                                            29
1,172
Subtotal    2,822  suitable
7, 8, 9, 10, 11                                 588  unsuitable
Total    3,410
(b) Outgrowers Area
Group I            Deep and moderately deep,
suitable                  25,870
Group Ib           Relatively shallow,
suitable                  11,660
Total suitable  37,530
Group II           Need drainage, judged
unsuitable                 7,730
Group III, IIIb,
IV and V         Unsuitable for other
reasons                   28,710
Total unsuitable  36,440
Total area  73,970



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(c) Project Area, Summary
Suitable        Unsuitable           Total
(ha)     (%)      (ha)    (%)       (ha)    (M)
Nucleus Estate      2,822    3.6        588    0.8      3,410      4.4
Outgrowers Area   37,530   48.5   36,440   47.1    73,970    95.6
40,352   52.1   37,028   47.9    77,380   100.0
Nutrient Status and Fertilizer Response
9.        According to the feasibility report, the "available nutrients K,
Ca, Mg, Mn and P were determined by (the) mass analysis method of Mehlich et
al," and the analytical results are interpreted thus:
"The soils in general are deficient in nitrogen and phos-
phorus. Barring Soil Unit 1 and 2, others generally have
low levels of potassium. Calcium levels are also low in
Unit 3 and 4 soils."
Two cane variety and three fertilizer trials were carried out in 1976 on some
of the better soils of the Project area. Early results of the variety trials
and two of the fertilizer trials are given and discussed in the feasibility
report. These results and field inspections clearly indicate that no statis-
tically significant response has yet been obtained to any fertilizer addition;
and, moreover, the cane yield levels show that the soils on which the trials
were located are well supplied with nutrients.
10.       There are several possible reasons for the different conclusions
obtained from analysis of soil samples (which indicate the soils to be
deficient in nutrients) and from the field fertilizer trials: (1) the
Mehlich method is not suitable for assessing the nutrient status of these
soils, (2) soils similar to those used in the fertilizer trials were not
analyzed, or (3) the analytical results were not correctly interpreted. It
is clear, however, that the fertilizer trials were located on very fertile,
lightly cropped or virgin soils, and that the fertilizer requirements of
cane in this area cannot yet be deduced from the results. If continued
sufficiently long, until the excess nutrients have been used up, the ongoing
trials should give realistic fertilizer responses. Meanwhile, it will be
necessary to estimate fertilizer requirements from (a) experience elsewhere
(i.e., Mumias, Sugar Belt), (b) from new trials on local, heavily cropped
soils, and (c) from a more suitable method of soil analysis. In the mean-
time, to ensure good yields, particularly in the nucleus estate, moderate
amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus should be used (Annex 7).
Soil Constraints
11.       On the nucleus estate, it is proposed in the feasibility report
that sugarcane be grown on all the arable soils - i.e., on soil Units 1 to
6. As discussed above, soil Units 4, 5 and 6 require drainage to be able to



ANNEX 6
Page 6
produce at profitable levels; and in addition, soil Units 3 and 6 are rela-
tively shallow - i.e., have relatively low water storage capacities. There-
fore, in drought periods cane yields in soil Units 3 and 6 would be more
severely affected than on the deeper soils (Annex 5). As regards drainage,
the feasibility report proposes that facilities be constructed and maintained
on the nucleus estate to ensure that soil Units 4, 5 and 6 will be as produc-
tive as Units 1, 2 and 3 (para. 21). Only an irrigation system would alleviate
the moisture availability constraint imposed by the shallower soils but no
irrigation is being proposed for the present. The yield decrement associated
with low water storage in soil Units 3 and 6 is taken into account as a
drought rather than as a soil factor (Annex 7).
12.       The soils proposed for production of cane in the outgrowers area
would, at least in the initial development period, ideally include only Group
I soils (i.e., soil Units I and 2) and these offer no signficant constraints
to production provided that they are reasonably well managed. If, for social
or other reasons, Government or the sugar company decide that soil Groups lb
and II will be used for cane production, constraints will be signficant and
costs of development higher or yields lower than projected. It is recognized
that there may be local rainfall runoff problems on lands at the foot of long
slopes, some erosion hazards on the steeper slopes, seedbed preparation
problems and temporary waterlogging in the finer soils, etc., but these also
are taken into account in the estimate of anticipated yields.
Soils Research
13.       No soils research of consequence to cane production is being
conducted in Kenya despite the fact that research workers, agronomists and
nucleus estate managers agree that the physical properties of soils have an
important influence on cane yields and production, and that soils research is
needed to establish the specifics of these influences and the means and costs
of possible ameliorative measures. For example, the specific reasons for the
following are not known: differences in cane rooting depth and hence in re-
sistance to drought in soils of similar texture; why deep subsoiling results
in striking increases in yield in some locations but not in others; why cane
yields are sometimes or in some places influenced by clay type, bulk density,
soil aeration and/or drainability, groundwater level, etc., and not in others.
Conclusions and Recommendations
14.       Soil Survey.  The intensity of the soil inspections, the accuracy
of the soil Unit separation (para. 5 and 7) and the amount of supporting
analytical data are satisfactory for Project appraisal and implementation
in the nucleus estate area. In the outgrowers area soil quality on average
probably is about as evaluated in the feasibility report, but the soil survey
data is not sufficiently detailed and the soil separations are unreliable in
too many instances to provide a satisfactory basis for Project implementation.
Therefore, the outgrowers area would be resurveyed with greater care and in
greater detail. This would provide information useful for production of cane



ANNEX 6
Page 7
as well as other crops and data on the kind, extent and location of soil-
associated crop production constraints. Survey activities could, if deemed
expedient, be limited only to plot by plot examination of outgrowers' land
offered for cane production; but this, because it would have to be done
piecemeal, would cost as much as a semi-detailed survey of the entire area
and it would not be as widely useful to the farming community or the nation.
15.       Availability of Soils for Cane Production.  As indicated by the
discussion and tables in paras. 5-7, all the arable soils in the nucleus
estate but only the Group I soils in the outgrowers area are proposed for
cane production. It is estimated that there are more than 25,000 ha of Group
I soils in the outgrowers area within a 16 km radius of the proposed factory
site. However, not more than half of this amount would be available for cane
production because (1) not all farmers on these soils would grow cane, (2) it
is expected that individual cane contracts would generally be of a size that
can be managed by the farm family, (commonly 2 ha), and (3) the cane must be
grown in blocks 10 ha or larger in size to facilitate land preparation,
harvesting and cane hauling which would be done by the factory.
16.       A factory with an annual processing capacity of 600,000 tons of
cane is proposed for the initial stage of Project implementation. This, at
the anticipated yield levels, would require the entire output of the nucleus
estate (2,650 ha) plus the production from about 9,500 ha (37%) of the Group
I soils in the outgrowers area, targets which can be reached with ease. The
further proposal to ready the factory by Project year 7 for an annual pro-
cessing capacity of 850,000 tons raises some questions regarding the soils on
which to produce this amount of cane. That is, the nucleus estate plus half
the Group I soils in the outgrowers area as presently surveyed, (i.e., half of
25,000 ha) would produce only about 760,000 tons per year at 64 and 48 tons
per ha, respectively; production would be 730,000 t with an outgrowers' yield
of 45 t/ha.
17.       Based on the very conservative assumptions (a) that not more than
half of any farm holding would be available for growing cane, (b) that there
would be no factory-independent growers of cane, and (c) that yields would
not increase significantly in the next 10 to 15 years, the remaining 90,000-
120,000 tons could be obtained in various ways. The possibilities include
(1) increasing the radius of the Project area slightly to include 1,800-2,500
ha more Group I soils, or extensions into neighboring Kisii District which
has favorable growing conditions, or (2) including as cane-producing lands
both the Group II and Group lb soils within a radius of about 6 km of the
factory; the Group II soils would require drainage facilities and then the
deeper ones would produce 48t/ha/year, and Group Ib soils and the shallowest
Group II, owing to the greater drought risk, could be relied upon for an
average yield of only about 36t/ha/year. On the other hand, production would
reach 850,000 tons in 12 years on the estate and the Group I soils if either
(a) about 58% of the Group I soils were used for sugarcane instead of 50%
and (b) if cane yields increased about 5% in the 12-year period; or if in
addition to 50% of the Group I soils, about 10% of the Group Ib and Group II
soils were used for cane (either by independent producers or developed ap-
propriately by the Project authority).



ANNEX 6
Page 8
18.       Fertility Trials.  The ongoing fertility trials will not, at least
in the next five years or so, provide information on the fertilizer require-
ments of cane in the Project area. Also, the lack of significant response
to P and K in lowland soils generally, increases in cane yields in the Sugar
Belt as a result of gypsum applications, and response to single but not to
triple superphosphate in the Mumias area indicate that the need for P and K
is not well understood, and that sulfur and/or calcium deficiency may be a
problem in the Project area soils.
19.       Under the Project, fertilizer trials would be initiated on Project
land that has been cropped continuously for 10 years or more as part of the
national sugar research program; other analytical methods of estimating soil
fertility would be correlated with field and greenhouse trials in the Project
area and elsewhere; and the possibility of sulfur and/or calcium deficiencies
in the sugar-growing area would be investigated.
20.       Soils Research.  Despite the obvious relationships between the
growth and production of sugarcane and the physical properties of the soils
upon which the cane is grown, little if any relevant soils research is now
being carried on in Kenya. A comprehensive sugar research program should
include an investigation of the effects of the physical properties of soils on
cane yield, and the methods of modifying these properties and effects, e.g.,
drainage, subsoiling, etc. (para. 13). Funds and suitable personnel would be
provided.
B. Drainage
21.       The feasibility report recommended construction of drainage facil-
ities for all of the poorly drained soils in the nucleus estate (soil Units
4, 5 and 6 which comprise about a third of the estate) but has proposed none
for the outgrowers area. The designs and specifications proposed for the
field, "cross" and main drains are satisfactory for a surface drainage sys-
tem only, despite statements to the contrary in the report such as: "The
network of.. .drains have been designed to drain away all surplus water from
the waterlogged soils..." and "the soils are likely to respond to drainage
measures, thus increasing root penetration" - statements which imply a
subsoil drainage system. Rotary ditchers mounted on 4-wheel drive tractors
are recommended for construction, and manual labor is proposed for finishing
the drains. The drains are designed to handle 70% of a 3-hour rainfall of 70
mm or 45 litres per sec per ha, a runoff which is estimated to occur once in
5 to 10 years. The infield drains which would be about 0.5 m wide and 0.5 m
deep and installed at every 10th to 20th furrow in the poorly drained cane
fields, would empty into the cross drains. The cross drains, which would be
designVd to collect the runoff from 20 ha of cane, would be about 0.75 m deep
(0.6 m in cross sectio~), would have a slope of about 1% and a maximum capac-
ity of about a cumec (m per second), and would empty iito the main drain.
The main drains would be 1.0 to 1.2 m deep (about 1.5 m in cross section)
have slopes of 1 to 5%, and be designed to collect the effluent from 4 of
the cross drains (i.e., from 80 ha). The main drains in turn would empty
into nearby small streams or natural drainage ways, some of which would
require considerable cleaning or deepening.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
22.       A typical drainage layout, therefore, would consist of 8 plots of
cane of 10 ha, each provided with cross drains emptying into main drains.
Taking the local topography into account, the average length of cross drains
needed for such an 80 ha unit is estimated at 3,200 meters (40 m/ha) and of
main drains 1,000 m (12.5 m/ha).  The volume of excavation required for 3con-
struction of the cross and the main drains is estimated to be 1 and 2 m  per
meter of length, respectively, or a total of 65 m per ha for both. The
original feasibility analysis was based on the assumption that the main drain
requirements for the uplands would be the same as for the lowlands (i.e.,
12.5 m/ha) but that the cross drain requirements for the uplands would be  3
only 5 m per ha; also, that the cost of excavation would be KShs. 2.0 per mi
including trimming and dressing by manual labor; improvement of the natural
waterways is estimated to amount to "20% extra work." Accordingly, the
original average cost estimated for both the cross and main drains was KShs.
125 per ha and a total of KShs. 332,000 for drainage of the entire nucleus
estate area.
23.       Subtracting the "20% extra work" (i.e., KShs. 25 per ha), the
drained area works out to be 2,656 ha, almost exactly the area proposed for
production of cane in the estate area. However, the entire area of the
nucleus estate, 3,410 ha, must be drained (not just 3the cropped area); also
the cost of excavation would be KShs. 3.0-3.5 per m rather than KShs. 2.0.
Including these changes the appraisal estimate of the cost is KShs. 509,000
for the excavation; adding "20% extra work" would increase the total for
drainage of the estate area to KShs. 640,000 (i.e., about US$ 22.60 per ha
gross or US$29.00 per ha of cane).
24.       Both construction of the field drains, which would be required
repeatedly every 5 years and is estimated to cost KShs. 140 per ha, and
cleaning the cross and main drains, which is indicated at KShs. 50 per ha
per year, are considered to be operating costs. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in Annex 15.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
LAND DEVELOPMENT AND ALRIuTURAL PRACTICES
Land Clearing and Cane Field Preparation
1.        The Project area would be divided into a nucleus estate, and an
outgrowers area surrounding it. The nucleus estate, with the exception of
the factory site and residential compound, a number of townships and some
small pockets of unsuitable land, would be developed as a compact factory-
operated cane area. The net cultivated area would be 2,650 ha, of which 50
ha would be set aside for nurseries (para. 9). The outgrowers area would
increase gradually and eventually occupy a total cane area of almost 15,900
ha. It is expected that the total cane area would amount to 9,700 ha
after five years and to 18,505 ha after eleven (Table 1). If the factory
were not expanded beyond the 60,000 t annual capacity in Year 7, the plant-
ing of new areas would stop early in the seventh year and the ultimate cane
area would be about 12,300 ha.
2.        A nucleus estate is considered necessary especially during the
first years so that the factory would rot be completely dependent on the
supply of outgrowers cane, the supply of whlich has generally proven to be
less reliable.  Eventually, the outgrowers' share would increase from about
54% of total cane supply in the first two milling seasons (Years 4-5), to
around 80% from the seventh milling season onwards. The nucleus estate would
be developed over a period of four years, the outgrowers area over a period
of 7-11 years. In order to develop the total required sugarcane area, ma-
chinery and implements would be purchased for developing 2,200-2,300 ha per
annum (para. 20).
3.        In general, the outgrowers would use only part of their holdings
for sugarcane production, the other part being planted to subsistence or cash
crops, used for grazing or left under fallow, Given an average family size
of seven persons, it is estimated that approximately two hectares of sugarcane
could be maintained by each family.  A ninimum production unit size of 10 ha
is necessary for efficient land preparation, harvesting, and transporation.
Therefore, at least five neighboring farmers would have to contribute land to
form each production unit.
4.        Land clearing at the nucleus estate would be conducted mechanically
by chain felling, wind rowing and burn-nco Outgrowers would be required to
clear their own land as an indication of their Intent to join the sugarcane
enterprise.  After land clearing, preparatlen of all land for cane growing
would be conducted by the Agricultural Department of the Company. This
includes ripping, ploughing, harrowing and furrowing. In order to obtain
optimal conditions, these practices would be done mechanically, in both the
nucleus estate and the outgrowers' area. Since land preparation in the high



ANNEX 7
Page 2
rainfall months would be difficult in part of the Project area and the re-
sults of such tillage inferior, the months of March, April, May and November
would have to be excluded from land preparation practices. The Comiany would
pay for the development of the nucleus estate, while all development costs
in the outgrowers area would be borne by the outgrowers (Annex 18).
5.        Ripping would be necessary for removing stumps and heavy roots and
would help loosen the subsoil. On the nucleus estate, ploughing would be
done by a heavy Rome plough, followed by two harrowings; most of this work
would be conducted by crawler tractors. In the outgrowers' area, however,
where most of the soils designated for cane production are well-drained,
ploughing and harrowing would be done by hydraulic, mounted implements on
wheel tractors, which are more mobile than crawler tractors. Furrowing would
also be performed mechanically with disc bedders. The plant lines would be
uniformly spaced for easy mechanization of other cultural practices, such as
weeding and hilling-up.
6.        The land development and cane planting schedule for the first 15
years, as presented in Table 1, is based on a 5-year crop cycle including one
plant crop and two ratoons. The number of ratoons would be reconsidered in
due course, taking into account yield experience and economics. In Chemelil,
for instance, four cuttings (one plant crop and three ratoons) are common
practice at the nucleus estate.
Cane Production Schedule
7.        Average cane yields are estimated at 64 t and 45 t per ha per annum
for the nucleus estate and outgrowers area, respectively. In a 5-year cycle,
the three crops grown would be one plant crop of 22 to 24 months, and two
ratoons of about 20 and 18 months, respectively.  A ratio of 100:85:70 between
the yields of plant crop, first and second ratoon, respectively, is assumed.
Approximately the same ratio is found in Chemelil (100:84:71), whereas the
Mumias ratio is slightly different (100:80:74). Yield estimates for the plant
crop and ratoons derived as shown in Appendix 1, are as follows:
Average
Plant Crop    1st Ratoon   2nd Ratoon   per year
Nucleus Estate           125           107          88            64
Outgrowers Area           88            75          62            45
8.        Based on these assumptions and on the land preparation schedule set
out in Table 1, cane production in the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas
would be as presented in Table 2. From the 6th Project year onwards, cane
production would come up to the factory capacity of 530,000 tons per year
(i.e., 2,000 TCD over 265 milling days). Between the 7th and 9th year, the
factory capacity would have to be extended to 850,000 tons (i.e. 3,000 TCD).
Full factory capacity would be reached in the 12th year.
Cane Varieties
9.        The dominant sugarcane variety grown in the western part of Kenya
is C0421. In many cases, however, the plantings appear to be mixed with at



ANNEX 7
Page 3
least one other variety, probably NCO310. C0331 is grown to a lesser extent
in some fields of the Sugar Belt; it is considered more drought resistent
but has a higher fiber content than C0421. Other varieties are still in an
experimental stage.
10.       A variety trial in Mumias showed NCO376 to be a promising variety
for the region with a 10% higher cane yield than the standard C0421. In a
trial conducted by the National Sugar Research Station the NCO376 had even a
25% higher yield than C0421 and also a better juice quality and a slightly
lower fiber content. NCO376 also may be more drought resistent than C0421.
A number of other varieties in the same or other trial fields appeared to
yield as well as or better than C0421. None of these, however, have been
included so far in the experiments in South Nyanza.
11.       Well-chosen varieties can increase yields significantly.  Further-
more, it is recommended that more than one variety be planted in the area.
If only one variety were grown the variety-specific susceptibility to pests,
diseases and/or other adverse conditions would increase the vulnerability of
the enterprise. A part (10-20%) of the commercial estate should be planted
with promising new varieties from the onset of the Project; cane seed avail-
ability, however, may be a limiting factor in that respect.
Cultural Practices
12.       Planting of cane would be done manually unless mechanical planting
proves to give better results, as labor-intensive agriculture is preferable
for both political and social reasons. Accurate planting with close super-
vision would have favorable effects in the entire crop cycle of five years.
Due provision would be made for the filling of gaps in the plant crop by
planting excess seeds in each cane row. It would not be possible to plant
throughout the year owing to the lack of sufficient moisture for germination
and initial growth. It may be assumed that only the months of March, April,
August, September and the first half of October would be suitable for planting.
13.       Seed for planting would be obtained from 12-month old cane in local
nurseries. The nurseries would be located in a number of places throughout
the nucleus estate and outgrowers area in order to minimize the transport
costs of the seed cane. The total area of nurseries would not exceed 395 ha
in any year. After cutting the seed cane, the ratoons of the nurseries would
be included as part of the plantation. The nurseries in their turn would
be planted with cane seeds derived from hot-water treated mother seed cane
fields. These would be planted at the nucleus estate and would not occupy
more than 50 ha. Based on a need of seven tons of seed for planting one
hectare and a planting season of 4.5 months per year, the capacity of the
hot-water treatment plant (located near the factory) should be about three
tons per day. The seed for the nurseries in Project Year 1 would be obtained
from Kibos, Mumias and Chemelil. As a precaution against soil-borne fungus
diseases, cane seed should be dipped in a fungicide solution (0.5% solution
of Aretan-3) as a standard treatment for all plantings. Approximately 650 gr
of the fungicide would be used per hectare.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
14.       Weeding would be conducted frequently and regularly until the canopy
closes. Depending on the terrain, weeding would be done either manually or
mechanically. Chemical weed control may be considered at a later stage when
the practical and economic implications can be more accurately determined.
Some of the weedings would be combined with the hilling operations of the
young cane (para. 13). Planting, gapping and weeding would be done with
hoes; for fertilizing, gunny bags and tins should be made available to the
laborers. Since fertilizer bags would be reused, gunny bags have not been
separately costed.
15.       Cane growth has not shown significant responses to fertilizer
applications in the experiements conducted in the area apparently because the
soils are rather fertile (Annex 6). Therefore, only light dressings to cover
possible deficiencies have to be given. The evaluation is based on average
requirements over a period of several crop cycles, however, and, as such, does
not represent a management recommendation; the assumed applications would thus
be on the high side at the beginning of the Project period, and possibly too
low in later years. In the plant crop, all fertilizer would be applied at the
same time as planting; in the first ratoon, fertilizer would be applied soon
after harvesting the plant crop. In the 2nd ratoon, nitrogen would be applied
in two dressings, the first after harvesting the first ratoon, the second
after 5 to 6 months. The following quantities have been assumed in the
Project cost estimates:
Calcium Ammonium         Single Super-
Nitrate (20%N)      phosphate (20%P205)
(kg/ha)
Plant Crop                   100                  300
1st Ratoon                  200                   300
2nd Ratoon                  400                   300
16.       Hilling is a cultural practice which ultimately reverses the
profile of the cane field; cane which is planted in the furrow eventually
grows on the ridge.  This gives a better anchorage of the cane stool and
improves drainage and aeration. Hilling would be done in two stages, either
manually or mechanically by tractor-drawn ridgers. This also helps control
weeds in the interrows (para. 14). Hilling would only be conducted in the
plant crop, not the ratoons.
17.       In the outgrowers area, the trash left after harvesting would be
moved from the cane lines into the interrows. This accelerates development
of the shoots of the ratoon crop, suppresses weed growth, promotes soil
moisture conservation and may help increase the organic matter content of
the soil; it may reduce the available nitrogen, however, and increase fertili-
zer requirements. In the nucleus estate, where the cane would be burned prior
to harvesting, no trash raking would be needed. Interrow ripping (sub-soiling)
of the ratoon crop in both the nucleus estate and outgrowers area, would only
be considered if cane growth is impeded by relatively impervious hard pans.
18.       Attention would be given to the possibility of using oxen by out-
growers for certain cultural practices, for example, weeding and hilling-up.
Peasants in South Nyanza are currently using oxen as draught animals and much
of the tedious work could be conducted relatively cheaply.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Pest and Disease Control
19.       Nowhere in Western Kenya are cane pests and diseases considered a
serious threat to the industry. Those which do occur in the region in order
of significance are the following:
(a) Smut disease, caused by the fungus Ustilago scitaminea.
It can be kept within reasonable limits by roguing infected
cane stools in an early stage.
(b) Ratoon Stunting Disease, caused by a virus, is potentially
a serious disease and can decrease ratoon yields signifi-
cantly. As a precaution, hot-water treated seed cane and
sterilized knives should be used in all new plantings.
(c) Brown spot, caused by the fungus Cercospora longipes
occurs throughout the area. Economic losses due to this
disease, however, are negligible.
(d) Wild pigs occasionally cause some damage in cane fields
but cannot be considered as a generally occurring pest.
(e) Termites occasionally infest cane fields but can be
controlled chemically.
(f) Army worm is also found, but control is not considered
worthwhile since the damage inflicted to the cane is
negligible.
(g) Both top and stalk borers do occur, but under the present
conditions the damage is of no importance; if they do
become a threat variety selection would provide the best
control.
Operations and Machinery Implements Requirements
20.       Development.  The following land development operations would be
conducted:
(a) Chain felling would be restricted to the nucleus estate
only. Since 40% of the area is either cultivated or under
fallow, only 60% of the area would have to be cleared.
Two crawler tractors and one 4-wheel drive tractor (120-
150 HP) with bulldozer blade would be needed, two for
pulling the chain and one for assisting in uprooting heavy
trees. The capacity of a unit of three tractors is 0.3 ha
per hour.
(b) Piling (wind rowing) would follow chain felling. This
would be done by crawler tractors or 4-wheel drive trac-
tors equipped with rake blades. The capacity per tractor
is 0.3 ha per hour.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
(c)  Ripping would be conducted in both the nucleus estate and
the outgrowers area. Either crawler tractors or 4-wheel
drive tractors (120-150 HP) equippped with ripper shanks
with a penetration depth of 70 cm would be used. The
capacity per tractor is 0.4 ha/hour.
(d) Ploughing would be conducted at the nucleus estate with
crawler tractors (120-150 HP) and a Rome plough, in the
outgrowers area with 4-wheel drive tractors and hydraulic
mounted ploughs. The capacity per tractor is 0.3 ha/hour.
(e) Two harrowings would follow ploughing. The same tractors
would be used as for ploughing; tillage harrows would be
used. The capacity per tractor per harrowing is 0.7
ha/hour.
(f) Furrowing would be the last mechanical field preparation
practice, apart from digging in-field drains (Annex 6).
In the nucleus estate, crawler tractors (60-70 HP) with
ridging bodies would be used, in the outgrowers area,
4-wheel drive tractors with ridging bodies would be used.
The capacity is 0.8 ha per hour.
21.       Land preparation would be done eight months per year (para. 4).
With 24 actual work days per month and 12 working hours per day (2 shifts of
6 hours), 2,300 hours of land preparation time would be available per year.
In the nucleus estate, all land preparation could be carried out with 5
tractors during the first Project year; in the outgrowers area, one tractor
would be sufficient. Some overcapacity of the tractors would be utilized in
preparing part of the area of the second Project year. The number of hours
necessary for land preparation as well as machinery requirements are pre-
sented in Table 3 for the nucleus estate and in Table 4 for outgrowers.
22.       Maintenance.  Maintenance of cane fields after planting would
consist mainly of weeding, fertilizing and hilling. The outgrowers would
carry out weeding and fertilizing practices themselves in their own cane
fields but the work would be supervised by personnel of the Agricultural
Department of the Company (Annex 18). At the nucleus estate, weeding and
hilling could be done in combination manually and mechanically. A wheel
tractor, equipped with tines for weeding and ridgers for hilling could be
used in cane not higher than 1 meter (5 to 6 months old). After that,
weeding could be done manually until the canopy is closed (approximately
1 year). In the evaluation, only manual weeding has been assumed. In case
of maximum mechanization of the plant crop, two hillings and three and four
weedings would be required. Since hilling can be considered as a weeding
in most instances, only two hillings and two weedings would be necessary.
In the ratoons, three to four weedings would be carried out. The capacity
of the machinery is 0.8 ha per hour for hilling and 1.6 ha per hour for
weeding. A planting and ratooning schedule is included in Table 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
23.       Replanting.  Replanting would start in Project Year 6, with plough-
ing, harrowing and furrowing to be carried out prior to replanting. The
machinery and machinery capacity would be the same as in the first planting
(para. 20). The area to be replanted, assuming development to a factory
capacity of 850,000 tons of sugarcane per year, would be as follows (in ha):
Project Year            6             7           8            9             10
Nucleus Estate           85          915         900           700            -
Outgrowers Area          75       1,500        1,500        1,675         2,200
Labor Requirements
24.       Manual labor would be required for planting, fertilizer application,
gapping and weeding, where this is not done mechanically. In the outgrowers
area, the farmers would carry out these activities in their own plots and,
moreover, they would perform trash raking after harvesting (para. 17). The
various practices would require the following labor:
Mandays Required Per Hectare
In 3-crops (5 years) cycle:
Planting              15                   15
Fertilizing            2                    8
Gapping                5                    5
Weeding                15 (per weeding)  270 (at 6 weedings per crop)
298
Planting, gapping and fertilizing of the plant crop would be conducted during
4.5 months in each year (para. 12). At 24 working days per month, the total
number of days available for these practices is 4.5 x 24 = 108 per year.
Fertilizing in the ratoon crops would be done during 10 months or 240 days
and weeding during the entire year or 288 days. The number of laborers
needed by the nucleus estate for carrying out the various treatments is
presented in Table 5; an outgrowers labor budget per hectare is shown in
Table 6. In those tables, other activities such as cleaning drainage ditches
(Annex 6), cane harvesting and transport (Annex 8), and roads construction
and maintenance (Annex 12) are not taken into account.
Agricultural Research
25.       Company Research.  Agricultural research for sugarcane in South
Nyanza would be conducted by a well-qualified Company agronomist, assisted by
an assistant-agronomist. Overseers and laborers would perform the special
treatments in experimental fields, collect cane samples for maturity tests,
assist in the hot-water treatment of cane seed, etc; even though some of these
activities do not constitute "research", responsibility for them would be
given to the Company agronomist and all related activities and costs have been
included under research for purposes of the evaluation. The work of the
agronomist and his staff would include:



ANNEX 7
Page 8
(a) Establishing experimental fields, making the necessary
observations and interpreting the results. Priority would
be given to variety and fertilizer trials and the monitoring of the
state of nutrients of the cane fields.
(b) Advising the Agricultural Manager on all agricultural
matters and on agricultural problems that may arise.
(c) Conducting maturity tests in collaboration with the
factory for the harvesting program.
(d) Supervising meteorological observations.
(e) Carrying out the hot-water treatment of cane seed.
(f) Supervising and coordinating with the National Sugar
Research Institute a soil survey to be carried out for each
prospective outgrowers plot to ascertain the suitability
for cane growing.
(g) Cooperating with the National Sugar Research Institute in
investigating the possibilities and economics of irri-
gation.
26.       National Research.  The Kibos Sugar Research Station is one of the
several research units for which the Director of Research of the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible. Performing an important function in sugar indus-
try development, sugar research should receive more attention through the ac-
tive involvement of KSA to make it more responsive to the needs of the in-
dustry. Towards this end, the Kibos National Sugar Research Station, to be
renamed the National Sugar Research Institute, would receive additional ve-
hicles, equipment and staff, including three internationally recruited experts
for a period of two years, and cooperate with KSA staff in the formulation
of its future research program. A comprehensive sugar research program,
acceptable to the Bank, would be submitted to the Bank by July 1, 1978; sub-
sequent revisions would be available to the Bank's supervision missions for
inspection.
27.       The Institute would be responsible for research on cane varieties,
cane yields, soils and fertilizers, climatic factors, pests and diseases and
weeds and related activities designed to improve sugarcane productivity
economically in all cane-growing areas in Kenya. Its research program (para.
26) should focus particularly on drainage/tillage/fertilizer interactions,
variety screening, chemical weed control, the reasons for rapidly declining
yields in ratoons; and the effect of soil properties on yields (Annex 6). It
would also provide advisory services to Agricultural Departments of sugar
companies and, through regularly scheduled semiaars with agricultural personnel
of the companies, provide an open exchange of information on cane growing
practices.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
28.       To be headed by a Research Director, the research staff would con-
sist of a plant pathologist, entomologist, agronomist, agricultural engineer
(irrigation/drainage), soils scientist, and a chemist. A production econo-
mist would advise on the economic aspects of research projects. Through the
Agronomist of the Kenya Sugar Authority, the Institute's Research Director
would endeavor to incorporate experimental activities carried out by the sugar
companies into a coordinated national program. a proposed organization
structure is shown in Chart World Bank - 16463, and Project costs are presented
in Annex 15, Table 18.
Agricultural Extension
29.       Almost 8,000 individual farmers would participate eventually in
the production process. The major decisions concerning outgrowers cane
production would be made by the Company, and extension activities would be
limited largely to familiarizing farmers with the terms of their cane growing
contract and supervision to insure their adherence to contract terms. Infor-
mation on all aspects of cane growing such as planting methods, fertilizing,
weeding and other cultural practices, pest and disease control and harvesting,
all aimed at improving sugarcane yields would be made available to farmers
through the staff of the Outgrowers Division of the Company's Agricultural
Department (Annex 18). The cost of these services would be fully recovered by
the Company (Annex 20). An extension specialist, to be provided under the
Project for the Kenya Sugar Authority would coordinate extension activities on
an industry-wide basis (Annex 17).
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ESTIMATION OF SUGARCANE YIELDS
Background
1.        Although sugarcane has been growing for years in the Project area
by smallholders, primarily for jaggery production, neither cane nor sugar
yield data have been gathered. A few variety and fertilizer trial fields,
established in recent years, are now in either their first or second season.
These fields are located in only some of the soil types and have not yet
been tested through drought periods which occasionally occur in the area.
The cane yields of plant crops and ratoons in these trial fields were about
9 t per ha per month and the present 18-month old ratoon crops have a good
stand despite weed problems in the early stage of these ratoons. The trial
fields indicate that the area has a good potential for cane growth. However,
the experimental results obtained there cannot be used as a basis for estimat-
ing the actual cane production of the area as the number of trials is too
limited; and cane yields calculated from a relatively small trial plot are
always considerably higher than the actual yields from large fields.
2.        In the feasibility report, the expected yield was based primarily
on evapo-transpiration figures. Several adjustment factors were then ap-
plied, accounting for soil suitability, management in the nucleus estate and
the outgrowers areas, consecutive ratooning, and an additional "contingency"
reduction factor. Ultimately, cane yields of 72.5 and 53 tons per hectare per
annum for the nucleus and for outgrowers areas, respectively, were derived.
Derivation of Yield Estimates
3.        An accurate estimation of yields is hindered by insufficient data
on climatic conditions, especially rainfall. Rainfall may be the main
limiting factor for cane production but other factors are also important,
including physical and chemical soil conditions (Annex 6), temperature and
sunshine, pests and diseases, sub-optimal varieties, and management. The
effects of the various factors in decreasing Project area yields below the
generally accepted potential cane yield of about 10 t per ha per month (120
t per year) are as follows:
Decreasing Effect in Percent
Outgrowers Area
Nucleus Estate       Group I      Group lb
Soils        Soils
Drought                          20                20           25
Management                       10                20           20
Varieties                        10                10           10
Pests and Diseases                2                 5            5
Temperature and Sunshine          5                 5            5
Soil                              0                 0            5
47                60          70



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        Drought will be the primary limiting factor and the main cause of
reducing the yields of rainfed cane (Annex 5); an average yield decrease of
20% has been assumed, except for the shallower soils in the outgrowers area
for which a 25% decrease is more probable. Management, i.e., cane husbandry
in a broad sense, in an outgrowers area usually is of lower standard than in a
nucleus estate; under the Project, management is also likely to be sub-optimal
in the nucleus estate at least in the first five years of development due to,
among other things, new and sometimes unforeseen conditions and the relatively
inexperienced laborers and headmen. Management effectiveness would improve as
experience is being gained. The main cane variety grown in Western Kenya is
C0421, a 25-year old, well-known Indian variety. This is a suitable variety,
but other varieties with higher yielding capacity, better juice quality and
lower susceptibility to adverse conditions are becoming available (Annex 7,
paras. 9-10).
5.        The incidence of pests and diseases is relatively slight, and where
appropriate control measures have been practiced, the economic losses in cane
yield have been virtually nil. Nevertheless, a slight reduction in yield in
the nucleus estate and a somewhat higher reduction in the outgrowers area can
be expected. Temperature statistics are not available for the area but, be-
cause of the altitude, the temperature is relatively low and may decrease cane
growth to some extent. Characteristics of the selected soils are generally
favorable, particularly as the soils would be reasonably well tilled, drained
and fertilized, and no adjustment to the base yield estimate of 10 t/ha/month
is necessary; such adverse characteristics as do exist are primarily drought-
related and adjusted for in the drought factors, except for the shallower
outgrower soils for which a negative effect of 5% is explicitly recognized
(Annex 6).
6.        Application of the yield-decreasing factors results in the following
cane yield estimates:
Nucleus Estate: 10 t/ha/month - 47% = 5.3 t/ha/month or 64 t/ha/year
Outgrowers Area:
Group I soils: 10 t/ha/month - 60% = 4.0 t/ha/month or 48 t/ha/year
Group Ib soils: 10 t/ha/month - 70% = 3.0 t/ha/month or 36 t/ha/year
Only Group I soils are recommended to be used. However, if because of social
pressure or other reasons, Group Ib soils are accepted for cane growing within
a limited radius from the factory, the yields on such soils would adversely
effect the overall outgrowers average. To account for this possibiity, an
outgrowers average of 45 t/ha/year has been used in the evaluation, which
implies a maximum of outgrowers cane originating from the shallower Group
Ib soils of 25% of total outgrower cane supply. As such a large proportion
is not anticipated, the yield estimate contains a considerable slack element.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 3
The actual calculation of the yield averages over plant crop and ratoon crops
is described in Annex 7, para. 7.
7.        Future cane yields in both the nucleus estate and the outgrowers
area could be increased by correcting or ameliorating the effects of some of the
adverse factors. For example, management and variety selection could be
improved. On the other hand, if cane production were increased to beyond
one million tons per year, less favorable soils would have to be included for
cane growing, and the soil factor in the outgrowers area would become more
significant. Among the alternatives for expansion are the implementation of
a rather extensive drainage system in the badly drained areas, or extension
of the outgrowers area beyond the 16 km radius or into Kisii District.
On balance, yields could possibly be increased eventually to 70 - 75 t/ha/year
for the nucleus estate and to about 55 t/ha/year for the outgrowers area. It
is not likely that these yields would be reached for 10 - 15 years, however.
8.        Sugar production estimates are based on a factory recovery of 10%
during the first five operating years of the factory, and of 10.5% thereafter.
(Annex 20). An average recovery of 11% is being obtained at Mumias, and of
9% at Chemelil; the difference is mainly due to the time lapse between
harvesting and processing at the two companies, i.e. management factors.
February 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
LAND DEVEIDPMENT, PLANTING AND RATOONING SCHEDULE .
(Hectares)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8         Year 9   Year 10   Year 11  Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Year 15
A. LAND DEVELOPMENT
Nucleus Estate                    135       915       900        700
Outgrowers                        150     1,500     1,500      1,700     2,200     2.235      1,640     1.640        1.465       940        885
Total                       285      2,415     2,400     2,400      2,200     2,235      1,640     1,640       1,640        940       470
Cumulative                   285     2,700     5,100     7,500      9,700    11,935    13,575    15,215       16,680    17,620    18,505
B. PLANTING AND RATOONING SCHMDULE
Nucleus Estate
Nurseries
Mother Nursery                  50        50        50         50        50        50         50        50           50        50         50        50        50         50        50
Nurseries 2/                    85        85        70         -         -         85         85        70           -         -          85        85         70        -         -
Planterop 3                        -        830       830        700        -          -        630       830          700        -          -        830       830        700        -
1st Ratoon /                                                     915       915       770         -         -           915       915        770        -          -        915       915
2nd Ratoon                                                                 415        830       765       350           -        415        830       765        350        -        415
Total Area Under Cane  /    135      1,050     1,950     2,650      2,608     2,608      2,615     2,650       2,650      2,608     2,608      2,675     2,650      2,650     2,608
Outgrowers
Nurseries 3                       150       150        150       200       200        310       310       310          310       310        310       310        310       310        310
Plantcrop i                               1,350     1,350      1,500     2,000     2,000      2,830     2,830        2,830     2,830      2,83p     2,830     2,830      2,830     2,830
1st Ratoon  /                                                  1,500     1,500     1,650      2,200     2,200        3,140     3,140      3,140     3,140      3,140     3,140     3,140
2nd Ratoon 3                                                               675      1,350     1,425     1.750        2,000     2,415      2,830     2,830      2,830     2,830     2,830
Total Area Under Cane 6/    150      1,650     3,150      4,850     6,975     9,135    10,775    12,390        13,830    14,715    15,545    15,545    15,545    15,545    15,545
I   Assuming continuous development to an annual factory capacity of 85,000 t.
g   To be included in cane area after cutting of seed cane one year after planting.
t/  Growing period is assumed to be 22 months.
Includes plantcrop area plus nursery area.  Growing period is 20 months.
f Includes one-half of original plantecrop area planted four years before 2nd ratoon, and one-half rla2nted
three years before. Growing period is 18 months.
6/  Includes area under nurseries, plantcrop and ratoons.
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYNZA SWAR PROJECT
HARVESTING SCHEDULE AND CANE PRODUCTION  lt
Unit      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  Year 13  Year 14  Year 15
A. HARVESTING SCHEDULE 2|
Nucleus Estate
Plantcrop                         ha            -        -         -       915       915       770       -         -        915       915      770        -         -        915      915
1st Ratoon 3J                    ha             -        -         -         -       457       915      843       385        -       457       915       843       375        -       457
2nd Ratoon                        ha                                                            -       830       830       700        -        -        830       830       700        -
Subtotal                      ha            -         -         -       915    1,372    1,685    1,673    1,215    1,615    1,372    1,685    1,673    1,215    1,615    1,372
=9tMrors
Plantcrop                         ha            -        -         -     1,500    1,500    1,650    2,200    2,200    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140
1st Ratoon 3                     ha             -        -         -         -       750    1,500    1,575    1,925    2,200    2,670    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140    3,140
2nd Ratoon                        ha            -        -         -         -       _          -     1,350    1,390    1,500    2,000    2,000    2,830    2.830    2,830    2,830
Subtotal                      ha             -        -         -     1,500    2,250    3,150    5,125    5,475    6,840    7,810    8,280    9,110    9,110    9,110    9,110
Total Area Harvested          ha             -        -         -     2,415    3,622    4,835    6,798    6,690    8,455    9,182    9,965   10,783   10,325   10,725   10,482
B.  CANE PRODUCTION 4]  Yields in
t/ha
Nucleus Estate
Plantcrop           125           '000 t        -        -         -        114      114        96        -        -        114       114       96        -         -        i14       114
lst Ratoon          107           '000 t        -        -         -         -        49        98       90        41        -         49       98        90        41        -         49
2nd Ratoon           88           '000 t        -        -         -       _-                   -         73       73        62        -        -         73        73        62        -
Subtotal                       '000 t        -        _         _       114       163       194      163       114       176       163      194       163       114       176      163
Outgrowers
Plantcrop            88           '000 t        -        _         _        132      132       145       194      194       276       276      276       276       276       276       276
1st Ratoon           75           '000 t        -        -                            5 -  56  112      118       144       165       200      235       235       235       235       235
2nd Ratoon           62           '000 t        -       _          -         _        -         -         84       84        93       124       124      172       175       175       175
Subtotal                                     _        _         _        132      188       257      396       422       534       600      635       686       686       686      686
Total Cane Production          '000 t        -        _         _       246       351       451      559       536       710       763      829       849       800       862       849
1/  Based on planting schedule shown in Table 1.                                                                                                                                             z
2/  Assuming growing periods of 22 months for the plantcrop, 20 months for 1st ratoon and 18 months
for 2nd ratoon.                                                                                                                   
3/  Assuming that harvesting of the first ratoon crop will extend over two calendar years.
4/  For derivation of yield estimates see Annex 7, Appendix 1.  Cane production is calculated by
applying the yield estimates to the area shown in the harvesting schedrle.
December 30, 1976



jo 14                                                      fl0                      Ift-
[       2                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 7
.41  P                                     0~~~~~~~~~ 40ws
~~~ -
~ I
04~~~~~~~~~0 .of  3                                     -          
H     4 >t      -7                                                              '  4t_  
g  a0             lo AX         OH         ~(O       S  N   04 
V                                             '8-                                      K   o  
cN    10 s                   '4                                          -4  04                 I  B|2  J-  C77
14~ ~   ~                          e  g           '0       a      c8^   
X <  I                   me    omS                   Z               Q 04           " 
a a X 4 4 o X4                           O              04              0    J  C
5 ~    ~                        |A c             3     e>X             be    :t i             ECS            FK         S, 0Vi
SN4j cH A   e  O                                  '8     -4 b~ "f     f                        ttS ettXa S aw
e     N                                          04        s                                          1Z> 



KENYA
SAUTH NYANZA SI00AR PROJECT
A3RICUITUR.I  ACYNR  REUORETS
OU=RNERY AREAURK
Work Performanc
Ae-teres       Ro-         Derivation
Per Roo    P.r Heotar         Key             Ui        Yer1       Year 2   Year 3    Yer4        Yer 5   Yr, 6    Year 7    Year 8             a  9      Yea  ii      Year 11    Yer12    Yea ~13           er1         er1
OERK AREA
A.   and Clearing and Preparati-n
N-ursr                                                                               in           150        150       150        200        LOU       235        160        160        135         110            55
P.  land Preparation   Planting and
Replanting                                                                           ha.                   1.330    1.350       1.300      2,000O    2,075      2,980    _L2          3,005       3,030         3.085       3,1    3140 3,io         .40        3.140
C.  Total                                                                                                 150     1.500    0,530       1,700o    2.230    2,330        3,140      3,340       3,i4o       3.i40        3,)I4O      3,14o        3,140       3,140      3,40o
MACRINERY UTIIZCATION
120/150 ffP Crarl- Tr~t-r
Chainfelling  /2J0.3                                    6.66
Pilin ~  /                                  0 3         3.33
To tal                                               9.99            )oline A)         Room       1,498      1,498    2,498       1,998      1,996    2,349       1,599      1,598      1,349       1,0C98          549
Carhitoey Reqirennt                                                     (U 2,300 Rooms    omber           1          I                                                                                        
M-ohner  O-od                                                                             14nbor          1          1        1          1          1          1          11111
120/150 ER Foo-Whee1 Drive Tractor
Thaiofelliog 3/                             0.3          .3                line A)                     500        500      5SAY        666        666       783        533        533        450           6            8
Ripping                                     o.4        52.50)
Pl.nghiog                                   2.3         3.33)
Harronio  (Yen times)                       0.7         3.33)
9.6 7    7        lOne C)         Mo-r      IO74    13,74    13 7403   1i 572    20,152   21,160                 28,762 28 761          28 762       28 762             28 762      28 762 2,9   8,96      28 762
Total                                                                                            l,74        e820   14,26        it,8       0~'0,81  ~21,913    29,295   2t    t                     t     ~     Nt           7~         It,78       38,71       2eK72
VoieyRequiremet                                                   )U 2,300 Hours   Number           1          7         7          8         10        10         13         13          13          13           13          13           13          13         13
per year)
c-hitney MOoed 3_/                                                                        Nnb-r           1          7        7           8         10       10)         13         13         13          13            13          13          13          13          13
65/90 UP Poo-Wheel DrOv- Trat-
Furroing (Ten timo)                         0 8         2.5
Milling (Too time,)                         o.8         2.5
Total_                                                .3            )oiTie             H Mouc       750      7,500    7,500       8,soo    11,030   11,s8o       10,700   P7,2734      05,700      15,700        15,700      15,70C0    15,700        15,730    15,700
soicyRequiremet                                                   )92,300 Mour    N,nber            1          4         4          4          5         6          7          7           7           7            7            7           7           7          7
Per year
Enhne -Yesd                                                                          lumber         1          4         4          4         j          6          7......    7           7           7             7           7           7.,,,,,2    7          7
Total Number of Trators                                                                                3        12        1',        13         16        17         21         21          21          21            21          20          R0          20         20
Trators Driver  Required 4/1                                                                          6         24        24         26         32         34         42         4,2        42          42            42          40          40           4o         40
3/  Retrltntd to nusey  re  only.
,!The to-trator omit to he forsid for thin op-rtion still otiliec . orole   rotor- Pro  the nuceo  estato .8/or
a120/150 HP Wheel trart-r
3/le  footnote 2/.
Ass-iseg tractor opera.tion in two shifts of 6 hour  eac.1q
September 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH STANZA SHGAR PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL LABOR REQUIREMENTS /
NUCLEUS ESTATE
Work Performance
Days per
Mandays    Year
per ha   Available    Unit        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11   Year 12
A. PLANTCROP
Planting Area                            ha            135       965      950       750        50      135       965       950      750       50         135        965
Planting
Mandays Required  15                    Mandays    2,025   14,475   14,250   11,250          750    2,025   14,475   14,250   11,250         750      2,025    14,475
Laborers                  108 2/        Laborers       19       135      132       105         7       19       135       132      105         7         19        135
Gapping
Mandays Required   5                    Mandays       675    4,825    4,750    3,750         250      675    4,825    4,750    3,750         250        675      4,825
Laborers                  108           Laborers        7        45       44        35         3        7        45        44        35        3          7         45
Fertilizing
Mandays Required   2                    Mandays       270    1,930    1,900    1,500         100      270    1,930    1,900    1,500         100        270      1,930
Laborers                  240 /         Laborers        2         9        8         7         1        2         9         8         7         1         2          9
Weeding (6 times)
Mandays Required  15                    Mandays   12,150   86,850   85,500   67,500    4,500   12,150   86,850   85,500   67,500    4,500    12,150    86,850
Laborers                  288 g         Laborers       43       302      298       235        16       43       302       298      235        16         43        302
Subtotal Laborers                                  71      491       482       382       27        71       491      482       382        27         71        491
B. 1st RATOON
1st Ratoon Area                          ha            -         -        -         915       915      770       -         -         915      915        770        -
Fertilizing
Mandays Required   2                    Mandays       -         -         -      1,830    1,830    1,540        -         -       1,830    1,830      1,540        -
Laborers                  24o           Laborers      -         -        -           8         8         7      -         -           8         8         7        -
Weeding (6 times)
Mandays Required  15                    Mandays       -         -         -     82,350   82,350   69,300        -         -     82,350   82,350    69,300          -
Laborers                  288           Laborers      -         -         -        286       286      241       -         -         286      286        241        -
Subtotal Laborers                                 -         -        -         294      294       248       -         -        294       294        248        -
C. 2nd RATOON
2nd Ratoon Area                          ha                                         -         4i5       830      765       350       -         415       830        765
Fertilizing (two times)
Mandays Required   2                    Mandays       -         -         -        -       1,680    3,320    3,o60    1,400         -      1,680      3,320      3,o60
Laborers                  240           Laborers      -         -         -        -           7        14       13         6       -           7         14        13
Weeding (6 times)
Mandays Required  15                    Mandays       -         -         -        -      37,350   74,700   68,850   31,300         -     37,350    74,700    68,850
Laborers                  288           Laborers    _           -         -        -         130       260      240       109 l               130       260        240
Subtotal Laborers                                 -         -        -         -         137      274       253       115       -        137        274        253
Total Laborers
Required                                         71       491      482       676      458       593       744       597      676       458        593        744
% For labor requirements for harvesting see Annex 8.
/  4.5 months per year at 24 days per month.
1o months per year at 24 days per month.
12 months per year at 24 days per month.                                                                                                                                  D w
September 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
OUTGROWERS LABOR REQUIREMENTS PER HECTARE OF SUGARCANE 1/
(Mandays Per Year)
Operation                     Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10
Land Clearing 2/                12        --        --        --        --        --        --        --
Planting                        15        --        --        --        --        15
Gapping                          5        -- -_               --                   5       --        --        --
Weedings                        90        90        45        45        --        90        90        45        45
Fertilizer Application           2         3         2         2       --          2         3         2         2        --
Trash Raking                    --         7         4         4         3        --         7         4         4         3
TOTAL            124       100        51        51         3      112       100         51       51          3
1/  Excludes cane harvesting as this operation is the responsibility
of the Company; see Annex 8, Table 1.
2/ Land clearing is not to be repeated in subsequent plantings.
February 20, 1977
cr 
a% X-



ANNEX 8
Page i
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
HARVESTING, HANDLING AND TRANSPORT
OF SUGARCANE
Harvesting Schedule
1.        The cane production schedule is presented in Annex 7, Table 2.  All
cane, including the outgrowers cane would be harvested and transported by
staff of the Agricultural Services Division of the Company's Agricultural
Department (para. 8). Harvesting would be carried out throughout the year
with the exception of the months of March and April, when rainfall is too
high for proper harvesting.
2.        At the nucleus estate, the cane would be burned prior to harvesting.
In the outgrowers' area, however, no such burning would be carried out or even
allowed in order to avoid deliberate burning by the farmers and consequent
irregularities in the harvesting program. Harvesting of burnt cane is
easier than harvesting of fresh cane; therefore, the cutting capacity for
burnt cane, based on experience in Chemelil and other cane-growing areas is
estimated at 2.5 t/day per laborer, including stacking in the field. In the
outgrowers area, the cutting capacity would be 1.25 t/day per laborer. Cane
knives (machetes) would be provided for all cane cutters. As it is assumed
that all cane would be cut by factory laborers the number of knives required
would increase from 1,375 in Year 4 to over 2,450 in Year 13 (including 10%
as reserve).
3.        There would be roughly 265 effective milling days per year (Annex
10); the initial capacity of the factory would be 2,000 tons cane/day (TCD);
if extended in Years 7-9 the capacity would increase to 3,000 TCD. The daily
tonnage of cane to be harvested in the nucleus estate and the outgrowers area,
the number of harvesting days, the annual tonnage harvested and the number of
laborers required are presented in Table 1. The daily tonnage to be harvested
is based on full factory capacity. The temporary reduction in milling days
in Years 7-8 shown in Table 1 is due to the assumed expansion in milling
capacity in those years, as with a 2,000 TCD capacity and 265 milling days,
i.e., 530,000 t theoretical annual capacity, the expected production of
559,000 t could not be processed. The actual phasing of factory expansion
would be determined by the Company's experience with cane production, crushing
performance of the installed mills, and effective number of annual operating
days.
Equipment Requirements
4.        Cane would be transported in various ways.  Hauling the cane out
of the fields would be done either by 3-ton self-loading and self-off load-
ing trailers or, if the soil conditions allow, by tandems of 8-ton Hilo
trailers; transloading would be needed if self-loading trailers were used.
The appraisal report is based on the assumption that 50% of the cane could
be transported without transloading; a more precise estimate could be made
only after completion of the soil survey and used as a basis for determining
the proper mix of transport equipment.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Nucleus Estate.  The cane would be hauled out of the fields in two
shifts of 6 hours. A round-trip for a self-loading trailer between the
field and the transloading station is estimated to average 20 to 25 minutes
(loading, 5-10 minutes; driving, 10 minutes; off-loading, 5 minutes); this
would permit 30 round-trips per day per tractor. A round-trip of a tandem
of two Hilo trailers between the field or transloading station and the
factory is estimated at 90 minutes (loading, 20 minutes; driving, 40 minutes;
off-loading 30 minutes); this would make 8 round-trips per tandem possible.
The required number of tractors, self-loading trailers and Hilo trailers in
each year is listed in Table 2.
6.        Outgrowers Area.  As would be the case in the nucleus estate, two
shifts of 6 hours each would be organized for cane haulage. A round-trip
of a self-loading trailer is estimated at 30 minutes; this slightly longer
time takes into account the somewhat lower quality of the roads. In total,
24 round-trips would be possible per day. A round-trip (average 25 km) of
a Hilo tandem is estimated at 140 minutes (driving, 90 minutes; loading, 20
minutes; off-loading, 30 minutes), making 5 trips per day possible.  The
number of tractors, self-loading trailers and Hilo trailers required each
year is listed in Table 3.
7.        Each self-loading trailer would be drawn by a 45/50 H.P. wheel
tractor, a tandem of two Hilo trailers by a 65/90 H.P. wheel tractor.  In
the nucleus estate, harvesting generally would be carried out at two sepa-
rate locations throughout the harvesting season; in the outgrowers area,
the number of locations would increase from 2 in Year 5, to 3 in Years 6,
7, and 8, and to 4 from Year 9 onwards. At each location at least two
flex-boom loaders mounted on wheel tractors (capacity 22.5 t/hour) would
be required; one loader would be stationed in the field for direct loading
of Iilo trailers, and one at the transloading station. Also required would
be one 65/90 H.P. wheel tractor equipped with a winch for pulling out
bogged-down tractors. These assumptions imply an eventual annual factory
capacity of 850,000 tons of sugarcane per year.
Labor Requirements for Harvesting and Transport
8.        The Company would conduct the entire process of harvesting, handling
and transporting of the cane in order to make the process as efficient as
possible. The outgrowers area would also be harvested by factory-employed
laborers. This system has been implemented in Mumias, where outgrowers fre-
quently participate in harvesting their own cane fields while being temporarily
employed as laborers by the factory. The cost of providing these services
would be fully recovered by the Company (Annex 20). The number of laborers
employed in cane cutting is included in Table 1; these laborers would be em-
ployed for 10 months each year. The number of tractor drivers and turn boys,
each assisting three tractor drivers, required for the two daily shifts is
included in Tables 2 and 3.
January 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
HARVESTING DAYS AND LABORERS REQUIRE) 3
Unit          Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  Year 13
A. CANE PRODUCTION 2/
Nucleus Estate              'o0o Ton             __        __        __      114       163       194       163      114        176       163       194       163      114
Outgrowers                  '000 Ton             __        __        __       132      188       257       396      422        534       600       635       686      686
Total                    '000 Ton                                -- -_    246       351       451      559       536        710       763       829      849       800
B.  HARVESTING DAYS  3/          Number              __                           123       176      226       186       177        234      252       274       280       267
C. CANE HARVESTED PER DAY
Nucleus Estate                   Ton             --        --        --       927      929       84O       875      646        751       647       702       582       427
Outgrowers                       Ton             _-        --          --    L073    1,071    1 140    2,125    2,393        2,279    2,383    2,298    2,448    2,573
Total                         Ton                    __ __ __           2,000    2,000    2,000    3,000    3,000         3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
D. CANE CUTTERS REQUIRED
Nucleus Estate 41            Laborers            --        --        --       371       372      344       350       258        300      259       281       233       171
Outgrowers      5/           Laborers            _         --        --       859      857       91'2    1,700    1,914      1,823    1,906    1,838    1,958    2,058
Total                     Laborers                                --    1,230    1,229    1,256    2,050    2,172         2,123    2,165    2,119    2,191    2,229
,  Assuming continuous development to an annual factory capacity of 85,000 t.                                                                                                     x
From Annex 7, Table 2.                                                                                                                                                       ax
/ The numbers of harvesting days are arrived at by dividing total cane production                                                                                                  OD
by the daily milling capacity of 2,000 t up to Year 6, and 3,000 t thereafter.
3/ Assuming a performance of 2.5 t per man per day.
5 Assuming a performance of 1.25 t per man per day.
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTHI NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
CANE TRANSPORT MACHINERY AND DRIVERS REQUIRED
NUCLElJS ESTATE
Work
Performance     Unit         Derivation        Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11  Year 12  Year 13
Tons per Day                    Key
A. CANE PRODUCED                                            '000 tons                           114      163       194       163      114       176      163        194       163      114
B. HARVESTING DAYS                                          Days                                123      176       226      186       177      234       252        274      280       267
C. MACHINERY REWIRED
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 45/50 HP
and Self-loading Trailer,
3-ton Capacity
Yearly Capacity per Unit                72 !/        Tons per Year (72 x line B)      8,856   12,672   16,272   13,392   12,744   16,848   18,144    19,728   20,160   19,008
Tractor UnitsRequired                               Tractor Unit         J                 7        7         6        7         5         6        5          5        5         3
Tractor Units Owned                                 Tractor Unit                          7         7         7        7         7         6        5          5         5        5
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 65/90 HP
and a Tandem of Two Hilo
Trailers, 8-ton Capacity
Yearly Capacity per Unit               111.6 2/      Tons per Year (111.6 x line B) 13,727   19,642   25,222   20,758   19,753   26,114   28,123    30,578   31,248   29,462
Tractor Units Required                               Tractor Unit                          9        9         8        8         6        7         6          7        6         4
Tractor Units Owned                                 Tractor Unit                           9        9         9        9         8         8        7          7         6        6
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 65/90 HP
With Winch                                            Tractors                               2        2         2        2         2         2        2          2         2        2
Flex-Boom Loade; Wheel-Tyne
Yearly Capacity                        270  /        Tons per Year (270 x line B)   33,210   47,520   61,020   50,220   47,790   63,180   68,o40    73,980   75,600   71,280
Loader lJnits Required                              Loader Unit                           4         4         4        4         3         3        3          3        3         2
Loader Units Owned                                  Loader rJnit                          4         4         4        4         3         3        3          3         3        3
Total:  Tractors Owned                                                                  22       22        22       22        20        19       17         17        16       16
Self-Loading Trailers                                                           7        7         7        7         7         6        5          5         5        5
Hilo Trailers                                                                  18        18       18        18        16       16        14         14       12        12
D. TRACTOR DRIVERS REQUIRED
Drivers  /                                                                                  44       44        42        42       34        36        32        34        32       22
Turn Boys                                                                                   15        15       14        15       12        13        12        12        11        10
Total Drivers and Turnboys                                                              59       59        56       57        46        49       44         46        53       32
/  Yearly capacity calculations:  average distance 2.5 km x 2 (back and forth)             km
average speed 20 km per hour - thus                15 min. per trip
loading and offloading                            10 min.
total                25 min. per trip
average capacity 2.5 tons per trailer - thus h tons per hour or 72 tons per day (12 work hours per day).
g   Assuming that 501 of cane produced would be transloaded; derivation: 50% of cane produced divided by yearly
capacity per unit.
3/  Yearly capacity calculations:  average distance 4 km x 2 (back and forth)'           8km
average speed 15 km per hour - thus                32 min.
loading (22 5 tons per houir)                      38 min.
offloading                                        20 min.
total                90 min.
average capacity 14 ton per tandem unit - thuis ).3 ton ner hour or 111.6 ton per day (12 work hours per day).
4/  Yearly capacity calculations:  22.5 ton per hour x 12 work hours per day  : 270 tons per day.
2/ Two shifts of 6 hours each.  Pased on number of tractors actually operating, not tractors owned.
Seotember 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
CANE TRANSPORT MACHINERY AND LABORERS REQUIRED
OUTGROWERS AREA
Work
Performance     Unit        Derivation        Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11  Year 12  Year 13
Tons per Dav                    Key
A.  CANE PRODUCED                                          '000 tons                          132      188       257      396       422      534      6oo        635      686       686
.  HARVESTING DAYS                                        Days                                123      176       226      186      177       234      252        274      280       267
C. MACHINERY REQUIRED
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 45/50 HP
and Self-Loading Trailer,
3-ton Capacity
Yearly Capacity per Unit               60o/        Tons per Year (60 x line B)       7,380   io,560   13,560   11,160   10,620   i4,o4o   15,120    16,440   16,800   16,020
Tractor Units Required                             Tractor Units        /                9        9       1Q        18       20        19       20        20        21       22
Tractor Units Owned                                Tractor UJnits                        9        9       10        19       21        21       21         21       22        23
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 65/90 HP
and Tandem of Two Hilo
Trailers, 8-ton Capacity
Yearly Capacity per Unit              104.3 3      Tons per Year (104.3 x line B) 12,829   18,357   23,572   19,400   18,461   24,406   26,284    28,578   29,204   27,848
Tractor UnitsRequired                              Tractor Units                        11       11       11        21       23        22       23         23       24       25
Tractor Units Owned                                Tractor Units                        11       11       11        22       25        25       25         25       25        27
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 65/90 HP
with Winch                                            Tractors                             4        4         4        4        4         4        4          4         4        4
Flex-Boom Loader Wheel-Type
Yearly Capacity                       270  ]       Tons per Year (270 x line B)   33,210   47,520   61,020   50,220   47,790   63,180   68,o40    73,980   75,600   72,090
Loader ITnits Required                              Loader Units                         4        4         5        8        9         9        9          9       10        10
Loader Units Owned                                  Loader Units                         4        4         5        9       10        10       10         10        10       11
Total:  Tractors Owned                                                               28       28       30        54       60        60       60         60       61        65
Self-Loading Trailers                                                         9        9       10        15       21       21        21        21        22       23
Hilo Trailers                                                                22       22       22        44       50        50       50         50       50        54
D. TRACTOR DRIVERS REQUIRED
Drivers 2/                                                                                56       56       60       102      116       113      i16        115      119       127
Turn Boys                                                                                 19       19       20        36       40        39       40         4o       40        44
Total Drivers and Turn Boys                                                          75       75       80       138      156       152      156        155      159       171
i/ Yearly capacity calculation: average distance 3 km x 2 (back and forth) - 6 km
average speed 18 km per hour - thus          20 min. per trip
loading and offloading                       10 min.
tatal            30 min. per trip
average capacity 2.5 t per trailer - thus    5 t per hour or 60 t per day (12 work hours per day).
/  Assuming that 50SC of cane produced would be transloaded; derivation: 50% of cane produced divided by yearly capacity per unit.
/  Yearly capacity calculation:  average distance 10 km x 2 (back and forth)=20 km
average speed 14 km per houir - thus         87 min. per trip                                                                                    p311
loading (22.5 t per hour)                    38 sin.                                                                                             g'
offloading                                   20 min.                                                                                             o
total           l5 min. per trip
average capacity 14 t per tandem - thus       8.694 t per hour or 104.3 t per day (12 work hours per day).
4  Yearly capacity calculations:  22.5 t per hour x 12 work hours per day   270 t per day.
Two shifts of 6 hours each.
September 30, 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
TURNKEY FACTORY CONTRACT
1.        A contract was signed on July 15th, 1976, providing for the supply,
erection and commissioning of a sugar factory complex at Awendo. The parties
to the agreement were The Mehta Group International Ltd., Maschinenfabrik
Buckau R. Wolf Aktiengesellschaft, Buckau Wolf New India Engineering Works
Ltd., and Agrima Project Engineering and Consultancy Services, Ltd., (these
four parties collectively being the Seller), the South Nyanza Sugar Company,
Ltd. (the Buyer) and the Government of the Republic of Kenya (guarantor of the
Buyer's performance). The main provisions of the contract are given below.
2.        The Seller is to erect a factory and related facilities for the
manufacture of mill-white sugar by the double sulphitation process. The
factory is to have the capacity to crush 2,000 tons of sugar in a 22 hour
working day, and is to be capable of expansion to a crushing capacity of 3,000
tons in a 22 hour working day. The Seller is to be responsible for the
carrying out of all the civil works necesary for completion of the factory,
employing local firms and workers where possible, and obtaining competitive
quotations for the supply of materials and performance of works other than
works and machinery erection to be done by the Seller or foreign sub-
contractors.
3.        The contract price is 75,584,621 Deutschmarks (DM).  Of this DM
64,381,496 is payable in foreign currency, and the remaining DM 11,203,125
is payable in Kenyan currency, at the rate of exchange ruling at the date
of the agreement to the Mehta Group. No price revision provisions are
applicable to that part of the contract price payable in foreign exchange.
The amount payable in Kenyan currency is subject to revision of changes
in the costs of materials, wages, transport and taxes. The calculation of
such price revisions is to be made by a firm of International Chartered
Accountants with an office in Nairobi, and is to be binding on all parties.
4.        All taxes, duties, fees, impositions or other revenue charges
raised now or in the future by the Kenyan Government or any of its agencies
(including those on the importation into Kenya of machinery, goods and
materials required for factory construction) are to be borne by the Buyer.
Exceptions are duties, taxes and fees on goods or services procured within
Kenya, and income and profits taxes payable by local firms or persons.
5.        An initial payment of 10% of the foreign currency element of the
contract price is payable as a condition precedent to the Effective Date
of the contract, i.e. October 15, 1976 (para. 7). A further 10% is payable
pro-rata to the F.O.B. value of shipments by irrevocable, transferable and
divisible letters of credit to be opened by the Buyer within 12 weeks of the
date of the contract. The remaining 80% of the foreign cost element is
payable with interest, at 8% net of tax (calculated from the twelfth month
after the Effective Date of the contract) in half yearly installments. The



ANNEX 9
Page 2
first installment of the principal is payable 42 months after the Effective
Date of the contract, and the first installment of interest is payable 36
months after the Effective Date. These installments are to be secured by
promissory notes lodged with the designated banks within 12 weeks of the date
of signing of the contract with irrevocable instructions that they should be
handed to the Seller as provided for in the contract. The contract provides
that the promissory note in respect of an installment of the principal amount
is to be handed over when the sum of the FOB value of shipments (corrected by
a factor given in the contract) equals or exceeds the amount of the promissory
note. The promissory notes for interest are to be handed over simultaneously
with the corresponding promissory notes for installments of the principal.
Thus, after the shipment of all the goods needed for the factory, the Seller
is to be in possession of all promissory notes for principal and interest for
the foreign exchange element of the contract. It is understood that the
Seller may discount, assign, transfer or otherwise deal with the promissory
notes before their actual due date.
6.        An initial payment of 10% of the Kenyan currency element of the
contract price is to be paid to the Mehta Group as a condition precedent to
the Effective Date of the contract. The balance of 90% is to be paid quar-
terly in nine equal installments, the first installment being due 3 months
after the Effective Date. The installments are to be secured by promissory
notes issued in Kenyan currency drawn by the Buyer in favor of Mehta, and
lodged with a bank in Kenya to be nominated by Mehta with irrevocable in-
structions that they are to be handed over to Mehta on their respective due
dates.
7.        The contract became effective on October 15, 1976 when the contract
had been signed and approved by all parties, the precedent conditions relat-
ing to initial payments, letters of credit and promissory notes had been met,
and a finance agreement had been completed between the Buyer (as borrower)
and a financial institution in the Federal Republic of Germany (as lender)
for the credit financing of 80% of the cost of supply of Buckau Germany.
8.        The Completion Period of the factory is 36 months following the
Effective Date of the contract, and during this period the plant is to be
erected and commissioned. The Buyer, within 4 weeks of the Effective Date of
the contract, is to put the Seller in vacant possession of the site for the
factory and related facilities, and is to indemnify the Seller against claims
by other persons to rights in the sites. The Buyer is to assist the Seller,
wherever necessary, to procure immigration permits, water rights, construc-
tion permits and all other licences and approvals required for completion of
the factory. The Buyer is also to assist in procuring the prompt issue, as
and when needed, of import licenses and approvals for machinery, goods and
equipment required for the factory, except where such goods and materials
are produced in Kenya at competitive prices, and to meet the Seller's re-
quirements as to quality, quantity and delivery dates.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        All machinery for the factory is to be manufactured in accordance
with the best standards of the Federal Republic of Germany, India and the
United States. No second-hand equipment or parts are to be supplied. The
Buyer is entitled, during the whole period of manufacture, packing and
shipment, to have the quality of the machinery inspected by a consultant,
retained at the Buyer's expense.
10.       When the installation of the plant is complete, the Seller is to
give 14 days written notice to the Buyer. The expiry date of this notice is
to be the Operational Date, unless there is a substantial defect or omission
in the plant, in which case the defect or omission must be made good and
further notice given as before. Within three months after the Operational
Date, the Seller is to give notice to the Buyer that sugarcane has to be
supplied. The Buyer, within 14 days, is to provide sufficient supplies of
sugarcane to enable the Seller to carry out serviceability tests. On
completion of the serviceability tests, the Seller is to give 7 days notice
to the Buyer for the provision of a sufficient number of skilled personnel
and a sufficient quantity of cane to commission the plant. The date of
expiration of this notice period is to be the Commissioning Date, and from
that date the Buyer is to assume control of and responsibility for the plant.
I1.       Machinery supplied by the seller is to be guaranteed for a period
of 12 months from the Operational Date against all defects in design and
manufacture, and the Seller is to replace as far as necessary all machinery
and components which during this 12-month period become unserviceable due
to defective design or manufacture or as a result of faulty installation.
During the guarantee period, the machinery and plant is to be maintained by
adequately skilled personnel employed by the Buyer in a proper way, and in
accordance with the Seller's instructions.
12.       The Seller is to warrant that the Plant will be capable of process-
ing 2,000 tons of cane per 22 hour day. This warranty is to apply only when
the cane has a fiber content not exceeding 15%. In the event that the fiber
content exceeds 15%, the daily tonnage is to be reduced proportionately to
the excess of fiber content. The Seller is also to warrant that the milling
machinery will extract at least 94% of the cane sugar content, based on a
12.5% fiber content and a ratio of Pol % cane to Fiber % cane of at least
0.9, taking into consideration an imbibition rate of at least equal to twice
the fiber percentage. These warranties are to be applicable only if a
continuous and regular supply of good cane is available, if a regular supply
of all products and raw materials required for plant operation is available,
and if plant and machinery is properly operated and maintained.
13.       In order to ascertain the fulfillment of the output and extraction
warranties, the following steps are to be taken. Within three months of the
Commissioning Date, on a date specified by one week's written notice by the
Seller, the Buyer is to carry out, under the supervision of the Seller's
specialist personnel, full testing of the plant for a period of 48 continuous
hours. The output and extraction warranties are to be deemed fulfilled if,
during that period of 48 hours (or during any such subsequent period if the



ANNEX 9
Page 4
warranted performance is not achieved in the first period), the specified
quantity of production is produced on an average basis, the warranted ex-
traction percentage is achieved and mill-white sugar is produced throughout
the period. For the purposes of the tests, stoppages or slowdowns not im-
putable to the Seller are not to be taken into account.
14.       In the event that the Operational Date is later than the expiry of
the Completion Period, the Seller is to be liable to pay damages of 1/4% of
the price of the plant for each and every complete period of 14 days that the
Operational Date is beyond the Completion Period. If the Seller is unable to
fulfill the warranties as to output and extraction within 3 months from the
date when the Buyer complies with the conditions set out in para. 12, the
Seller is to be liable to pay damages. For any shortfall in production, the
Seller is to pay 0.1% of the price of the plant for each 100 metric tons by
which the actual production falls short of warranted production. For an
extraction rate less than 94%, the Seller is to pay 0.1% for each 0.5% by
which the actual extraction rate falls short of the warranted rate. The
total damages payable are not to exceed 5% of the purchase price of the
plant.  If the Buyer is unable to fulfill the conditions in para. 12 within
3 months of the Commissioning Date, the Seller shall not be required to pay
damages in respect of the output and extraction warranties.
15.       On the Operational Date, the Seller is to deliver to the Buyer a
guarantee by designated banks that the Seller will meet the obligations under
the agreement, provided that such liabilities are less than 5% of the purchase
price.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR FACTORY
LOCATION AND SUGAR MANUFACTURING PROCESS
A. Sugar Factory Location
1.        The proposed factory site would be in the center of the nucleus
estate and the outgrowers area to minimize the transport requirements for
sugarcane. The site would be about 48 km south of Kisii and approximately
960 meters north-northeast of the Sare river bridge across the A-1 National
highway. It would occupy a slightly sloping area between contour altitudes
of 1,430-1,450 m and be at a distance of about 120 m from the Sare river.
The factory compound would be about 175 m in length and 145 m wide, with all
manufacturing facilities located within its premises.
2.        Orientation.  The prevailing wind direction would govern the
location of the smoke stack in relation to the surrounding installations.
Despite the use of fly-ash arresting equipment, the constant dispersion of
the minimal amount of escaping ashes and the odor of smoke would cause dif-
ficulties detrimental to factory operation, apart from the annoyance to
nearby housing areas. About 70% of the year the wind blows from a south-
easterly direction. Accordingly, the orientation of the whole complex would
have the chimney located on the southeast side of the factory and would thus
prevent contamination of sugar with ashes at the exposed handling system.
Because of only minimal precipitation of ash dust in the factory the hazard
of fire would be reduced, and a high degree of cleanliness would be achieved.
The housing facilities would be established on the up-wind side of the
factory.
3.        Water Supply.  Although3the factory would have a recirculation
cooling water system, the 2,000 m per hour of water that sugar processing
would demand at an operating level of 2,500 TCD would need substantial
replenishment capacity, arising from losses and the progressive fouling of
the recirculating water. The availability of surface water supply therefore
becomes a vital factor in the selection of facto5y site location. The Sare
river has a miniium flow volume of about 0.112 m per second. This is equiv-
alent to 403.2 m , or 403,200 litres per hour, and would be adequate to sup-
ply the factory requirements. The river water would need simple fluming for
delivery to the factory water system. For acquiring the required gradient,
river pumps would be supplied for lifting the water to the delivery channels.
4.        Elevation.  Factory floor elevation would be at a contour level
of 1,434 m and the Sare river bed is at 1,424 m, leaving a 10 m elevation
difference. The possibility of factory flooding by river water seems remote.
In order to eliminate possible hazards from heavy rain waters cascading from
the hill towards the river and through the factory site, an adequate drainage
system would be constructed.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.        Geological Conditions.  A geological survey of the site was limited
to several test bores. Pits were dug at several locations on the proposed
factory sites. The soil samples show that the subsoil composition is loose,
brown, silty clay to a depth of one meter and below, w1ich is lightly plastic.
The compression strength of unconfined soil is 20 t/m as determined by tests
at the depth of one and one-half meters. Tests further indicated that the
strength of the soil rapidly decreases when soaked with water, indicating a
less static subsoil condition. The riverbed is black granite, revealing the
presence of a hard pan at the level of 1,424 m. The critical foundation
would thus have to be designed with a wide slab for distribution of load on
the supporting soil above the hard pan.
6.        Transport Access.  The proposed factory location would be about 600
m from the A-1 National highway, and relatively easily accessible even at the
initial stages of site preparation. The approach and the site, however, are
on a gradual slope. In consideration of the expected traffic volume, the
access road would have to be designed to minimize the slope up to the factory
site to limit prime mover tractive power losses.
7.        Environmental Impact.  A sugar factory, being a food manufacturing
plant, employs relatively few chemicals in its process. Industrial lime, the
most extensively used chemical, is disposed with the filter mud. Possessing
considerable properties as fertilizer, this mud can be applied in the cane
fields. The effluents of the factory are more of an annoyance rather than a
pollutant. Nevertheless, equipment and facilities would be provided for
controlling the effluents. Air pollution would be from the unburned bagasse
dusts or fly ashes that would be carried by the combustion gases. Cyclone-
type fly ash collectors would be incorporated in the boiler supply for
arresting the bagasse dust from smoke. These ashes would also be disposed of
as fertilizer. The contamination in cooling water would be the entrained
sugar solution in the condensed vapors of the processing vessels. Equipment
for separating the sugar solution in vapor would be supplied with the evap-
orator and vacuum pans. But there would be the constant leaks of sugar
solution out of equipment and piping systems which would accumulate in the
factory drains; facilities would be provided for the treatment of this waste
water. The treatment plant would consist of a mixing chamber and a series of
evaporation ponds.
B. The Sugar Manufacturing Process
8.        Factory Capacity.  The principal factor determining the capacity
of the factory would be as follows:
a)   Number of Milling Days.  These are the net operational
days in one year taking into account the effective working
days, holidays and seasonal repairs. The calculation is
as follows:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Number of weeks per year                  52 weeks
Number of repair weeks per season          8 weeks
Available weeks                           44 weeks
Effective milling days per
week (Based on the normal
18-hour stoppage for week-
end repairs and cleaning)               6.25 days
Available milling days
= 44 x 6.25                               275 days
Holidays per year 1/                         10 days
Net operational days                        265 days
Actual experience in Kenya indicates that, with fewer shut-
downs for repairs and favorable weather, up to 300 net
operational days can be achieved. Project evaluation is,
therefore, based on the possibility of an extended mill-
ing season with a maximum of 285 days in a peak year
(Annex 8).
b)   Cane Production Schedule.  The cane production schedule
for the Project is shown in Annex 7, Table 2. The fac-
tory and the Company's agricultural operations would be
planned such that up to 2,000 t of cane could be processed
per day up to about Years 7-9, and 3,000 t thereafter.
9.        Cane Handling System.  Cane transport would be by a tractor-trailer
system consisting of units of a tractor and two 8-ton trailers (Annex 8).
Trailers would be weighed for determining the cane load before entering
the unloading area. The unloading would be either by the hoist or by the
crane. The slings, upon which the cane is piled, would be lifted with the
cane out of the trailer hold and either dumped into the factory feeder car-
rier or stock-piled in the gantry area. The feeder table would be installed
with the discharging end elevated and would have a revolving kicker. The
feeder table would also be equipped with a speed-regulated drive for attain-
ing a more uniform and even loading of the feeder carrier. Likewise, the
feeder carrier would have similar features for further maintaining an even
feeding into the first cane preparatory equipment.
10.       Cane Preparation and Extraction.  Cane juices of high sugar content
are held in cells which are enclosed by fibrous walls. Breaking these walls
1/   It is assumed that Company employees would observe all holidays.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
for the displacement of juices is performed by the initial shredding of the
cane stalks, thence by the traditional series of crushing. The revolving
knifing set and the defiberizer would prepare the cane into a shredded mass
which would pass through the mills for the extraction of the juices. To
assist in maximizing the squeezing of the juices from cane, water would be
added to reduce the sugar content in the juice that would be reabsorbed by
the fibers during the passage through the last crushing.
11.       In the milling tandem of four mills, the first two mills would
extract the more concentrated juices. Termed as mixed juice (raw juice), it
would be pumped directly into processing. Low in sugar, the juice from the
succeeding mill would be recirculated to the preceding mill for soaking the
fibers under the principle of lixiviation or maceration. Likewise, the juice
from the last mill would be returned to the preceding mill. Water would be
applied as maceration to the fibers entering the last mill for diluting the
reabsorbed sugar solution in the fibers or bagasse.
12.       Juice Heating and Liming Method.  The mixed juice as it comes from
the milling plant contains suspended matters such as fine bagasse (bagacillo),
gums, albumin, wax, coloring matter, and particles of clay, sand, etc. Sub-
jected to heat to a temperature of about 102-104 0C and dozed with milk of
lime, most of these impurities are caused to coagulate and precipitate.
Mixed juice is treated with lime prior to heating which reduces the incidence
of inversion of succrose into non-sugar. A retention period of at least 20
minutes is essential for the lime to completely combine in the chemical
reaction with the acids, phosphates and impurities of the juice. Otherwise,
the uncombined lime would precipitate on the tub walls of the juice heaters
and evaporators as scales, thereby diminishing the heat transfer performance
of the affected surface. Hence, there is need for a large mixing tank in the
process employing the simple defecation.
13.       Sulphitation Process.  The production of mill-white sugar would be
by the doublesulphitation process with the mixed juice undergoing fractional
heating.  From the first heating to about 770C, the mixed juice would be
limed and sulphitated to the required pH range of 7 to 7.1 in a continuous
flow system. This treated juice would then be heated to the boiling tempera-
ture of about 102 0C for decantation in the continuous clarifier.
14.       Clarifier and Vacuum Filter.  The continuous separation of the
clear juice from the mud would take place in the clarifier. The precipitate
mud would be pump-withdrawn from respective compartments of the clarifier and
would be filtered in a continuous revolving drum-type vacuum filter. The
separated filtrate would be recirculated with mixed juice and the filtered
mud disposed by means of a belt conveyor into dump trucks for delivery to
cane fields as fertilizer.
15.       Evaporating Station.  The clear juice withdrawn from the clarifier
would be pumped into the evaporating station. In a multi-effect evaporator
the clear juice or clarified juice would be concentrated through a series of



ANNEX 10
Page 5
boiling and evaporation into syrup with a consistency of about 65% or 690
brix. 1/ The second sulphitation treatment would be applied to the syrup in
the continuous mixing chamber where SO2 gas would be introduced at the bottom
for counter-current contact with the syrup.
16.       Sugar Boiling and Crystallization.  The sulphitated syrup would be
delivered to the pan floor for boiling into the three massecuite system. The
first of this system is the "A" massecuite 2/ which would be boiled from the
"A" strike. 3/ The "A" strike would be developed from a footing of seed magma
on syrup and light ("A") molasses from the second curing of "A" massecuite.
The strike would be dropped as "A" massecuite and would have an average
purity of 86-88. The second massecuite would be the "B" which would be
boiled as "B" strike. The cut-over grain from the grain strike would be
developed on "A" heavy molasses, which would be from the first curing of "A"
massecuite. The "A" heavy molasses would be washed prior to boiling and
building up of "B" massecuite. For the third or "C" massecuite, the strike
would start with graining on the mixture of syrup and "A" heavy molasses to
a purity of about 760.  The boiling would develop the grain which would be
hardened with hot water and syrup. The grain would be divided in which the
first cutting would be transferred to form the footing of "B" strike as
mentioned above. Only the required portion would be left for building up the
"C" strike on "A" heavy molasses and would be dropped as "C" massecuite. The
excess grain would be transferred to a storage crystallizer for use on
subsequent boilings.
17.       Curing and Purging Process.  The "A" massecuite would undergo
double curings on the centrifugal machines. On the first, the "A" heavy
molasses derived would be pumped to the pan for building up the "B" and "C"
strikes as described above. Similarly, the "B" massecuite would have double
purgings on the centrifugal machines. "B" heavy molasses would be separated
on the first curing and would also be pumped to the pan floor for boiling the
"C" strike. The sugars from the first purging of "A" and "B" massecuite
would be combined and made into a magma for the second curing. The purging
centrifugal machines for the "A" and "B" magma would be the batch-type, fully
automatic units which would be equipped for hot water washing, steaming, etc.
This curing would produce the commercial grade mill-white sugar. The separated
"A" light molasses, as mentioned earlier, would be used for developing the
first strike.
1/   Brix - percent by weight of solid matter as indicated by a hydrometer
graduated in degree brix.
2/   Massecuite - the mixture of crystals and mother liquor or molasses,
discharged from the vacuum pan.
3/   Strike - the mixture of syrup of high grade molasses with seed or
crystal in the process of boiling the massecuite in the pan.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
18.       From the pan, the "C" massecuite would be discharged into the
crystallizers for the required cooling. The crystallizers would be the
water-cooled type with the pipe cooling elements. During the cooling period,
the "C" massecuite would be supersaturated and thus would gain further
crystallization from the mother liquor. Properly cooled, the "C" massecuite
would also be double cured. The derived "C" light molasses would be brought
to the pan floor for "C" strike boiling. The first sugar would be made into
magma and would subsequently be purged. The curing centrifugals would be the
continuous-type centrifugal. The second cured "C" sugar would be remelted
and/or would be used as seed for footing of the "A" strike as described above.
As for the molasses so derived and termed final molasses, it would be weighed
and pumped to tanks for commercial disposal.
19.       Sugar Handling and Storage.  The sugar would be conveyed from the
centrifugal station to the wet-sugar elevator. A grasshopper conveyor would
be used which is standard equipment for commercial sugar handling at the
centrifugal station. Prior to delivery into the warehouse, the sugar would
be dried and cooled, and subsequently weighed in 100 kg gunny bags.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANA SUGAR PROJECT
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT
1.        Under an agreement (Agreement) between the South Nyanza Sugar Com-
pany Limited (SNSC) and The Mehta Group Internation Limited (Mehta), signed
on July 15, 1976, Mehta was appointed "Manager and Technical Adviser" of
SNSC. SNSC, incorporated in the Republic of Kenya has its registered office
at the Ministry of Agriculture, Kilimo House, Nairobi. Mehta, incorporated
in Bermuda Islands, has its registered office at Argus Insurance Building,
Wesley Street, P. 0. Box 2016, Hamilton.
Terms and Conditions
2.        The following is a synopsis of the agreed terms and conditions:
(a) the Agreement is for the duration of ten years,
commencing with the date of signing; 1/
(b) Mehta is obliged to provide competent and efficient
management for SNSC and perform the services stated
in Schedule A (para. 3);
(c) Mehta may arrange visits of specialist advisors with-
out prior approval of SNSC;
(d) the Chairman of Mehta is appointed Director, without
remuneration, of SNSC;
(e) Mehta's remuneration is as follows:
(i) annual fee of US$135,000 up to the commis-
sioning date of the factory (3 years);
(ii) annual fee of US$99,000 after commission-
ing of the factory; plus 5% of operating
profits of SNSC before depreciation, in-
terest and taxes, subject to a minimum of
US$46,800 per year;
(iii) provision (ii) above is to be reviewed after
3 years from date of signing;
1/   Effectiveness was conditional upon the signing of another agreement
for the supply, erection and commissioning of the sugar factory;
that agreement was signed concurrently with the management agreement.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
(iv) the fee includes the General Manager's salary,
and salaries of visiting specialist advisors
up to 50 days/year;
(v) Mehta is to be reimbursed for expenses related
to: accommodation and travel of the Director,
General Manager, and visiting specialist ad-
visors, and salaries for the latter for services
exceeding 50 days/year; remuneration for staff
seconded by Mehta other than the Director and
General Manager; staff recruitment; and SNSC-
related expenses of Mehta's Nairobi office;
(f) subcontracting by Mehta requires prior SNSC approval;
(g) Mehta may terminate the Agreement with full indemnifica-
tion if prevented for a period of three months from per-
forming its obligations for any reason beyond its con-
trol, or if SNSC defaults on its payments to Mehta for
more than two months;
(h) the Agreement also terminates two months after a breach
of contract by any of the parties and written notice has
been served by the other party, or upon involuntary li-
quidation of any of the parties' business entities;
(i) the Agreement may be extended beyond ten years if the
parties are able to negotiate an extension within the
ninth (not tenth) year of the Agreement;
(j) arbitration is in the first instance through a single,
mutually acceptable arbitrator, or, in the absence of
agreement, by an arbitrator appointed by the Law Society
of Kenya, under the provisions of the Arbitration Act
of 1968.
Scope of Services
3.        In Schedule A, which is part of the legal instrument establish-
ing the Agreement, the scope of services to be provided by Mehta is de-
fined as follows:
(a) Industrial
(i) ensuring efficient use of the factory plant
and equipment with a view to maximizing pro-
duction;



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(ii)  instituting preventive maintenance programs
for the factory plant and machinery and utili-
ties;
(iii)  instituting a system for analyzing operational
data with a view to continuous review of opera-
tional efficiency;
(iv)  investigating operational problems and effecting
corrective measures;
(v) installing a comprehensive system of stores con-
trol and management;
(vi)  organizing visits of specialist advisers;
(vii)  ensuring that the factory is operated and main-
tained in accordance with the manufacturer's in-
structions and manuals so as to avoid improper
use that may cause excessive wear and tear of
the machinery;
(b) Agriculture
(i) planning of the entire nucleus estate planting
and cultivating program;
(ii)  planning of a development program for outgrowers'
areas;
(iii)  ensuring execution of the development plans for
the nucleus estate and outgrowers' areas;
(iv)  planning the harvesting and transportation of
cane to the factory and ensuring that SNSC's
contractual commitments to outgrowers are met;
(v) ensuring a regular and continuous supply of good
quality cane in time for the serviceability tests,
commissioning and acceptance tests;
(vi)  organization of the field labor force;
(vii)  organization of the maintenance and development
of all field equipment;
(viii)  organizing the research and development activi-
ties relating in particular to varietal trials,
disease prevention, soil fertilization, etc.;
(ix)  organizing visits of specialist advisers;



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(c) Personnel
(i) recruitment (and if necessary dismissal) of
all indigenous and internationally recruited per-
sonnel required by the SNSC;
(ii)  preparing of job descriptions of maintenance,
operating and supervisory staff;
(iii) organizing the training of all maintenance,
operating and supervisory staff for the in-
dustrial, agricultural and administrative func-
tions in the SNSC with emphasis on rapid Ken-
yanization consistent with the Company's effi-
cient and profitable operation;
(iv)  ensuring the availability of skilled, semi-
skilled and supervisory staff for the service-
ability tests, taking over the plant on com-
missioning and acceptance tests to be carried
out by the manufacturers of the machinery;
(v) setting up a personnel department to deal with
normal recruitment, terms and conditions of
service, promotion, maintenance of personnel
records, labor and public relations, and training
and counseling of staff;
(vi)  instituting social welfare schemes for the staff
and labor through cooperative shops, dispensaries,
recreational and sporting activities;
(d) Administration and Financial Management
(i) providing the SNSC with the whole time services
of a General Manager;
(ii)  supervising the progress of the erection and
commissioning of the plant with a view to timely
completion and proper execution;
(iii) attending to all matters concerning the conduct
of the SNSC including day to day management and
statutory requirements;
(iv)  instituting a system for the warehousing, marketing
and distribution of the products of the SNSC;



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(v) planning and control of all purchases to secure
the most advantageous terms, optimum inventory
levels and uninterrupted production;
(vi) institution and maintenance of operating, financial
and management accounting systems, reporting pro-
cedures and controls;
(vii) formulating and implementing, with the approval of
the Board, management policy with the objective of
achieving a high level of performance in all depart-
ments;
(viii) submitting to the Board for its approval annual
capital and revenue budgets;
(ix) submitting periodically to the Board all such
reports and statements (including financial
statements) as the Board may require;
(x) operating on behalf of the SNSC all bank accounts
as may be necessary in connection with its busi-
ness;
(xi) effecting on behalf of SNSC all insurances as are
considered necessary;
(xii) generally supervising the upkeep, maintenance
and timely replacement of all SNSC assets.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT AREA ROADS
1.        In order to implement the Project and operate the Company effi-
ciently, a good road infrastructure for the transport of inputs such as
seedcane; planting, weeding, fertilizing, and harvesting; and for the trans-
port of harvested cane, processed sugar, and sugar by-products is essential.
Towards this objective, a number of non-classified and classified roads
would be improved or newly constructed to reach the plantations within the
nucleus estate and the numerous outgrowers plots extending up to, or slightly
beyond, 16 km from the factory.
2.        A detailed ground study including existing road conditions, drain-
age requirements, possible realignments and general soil types has been com-
pleted, covering about 53,000 ha of the proposed Project area located within
a radius of 13 km from the factory site. Based on the results of the study,
construction of the following roads is recommended:
Non-classified      Classified
(km)
Access tracks                          350.0
Access roads                           150.0              40.8
Feeder roads                           80.0               31.5
Collection roads                        18.0              14.0
Factory access road                      1.2
Total               599.2              86.3
Since the proposed Project area excludes some of the originally surveyed area,
particularly around the western fringe inside the 13 km radius, and includes
as yet unsurveyed areas up to, or slightly beyond, the 16 km radius in the
northeast and south (Miap IBRD 12344) an allowance has been made in the cost
estimates for the survey and construction of an additional 50 km of access
tracks. The proposed construction program thus comprises a total road dis-
tance of 735.5 km. The recommended standard of the roads varies, with access
tracks having the lowest specifications and collection roads generally the
highest. The factory access road, connecting the A-1 National highway with
the factory, would be of exceptionally high standard to enable it to carry the
anticipated traffic of 456 vehicles (mostly cane transport) per day. There
would be one bridge crossing the A-1. A breakdown of the roads by construction
standard is shown in Table 1. About 188 km of non-classified roads and
tracks, located on the nucleus estate would be owned and maintained by the
sugar company, consisting of:  access roads, 26 km; feeder roads, 41 km;
access tracks, 120 km; and the factory access road, 1.2 km. The resulting
cost to the Company would be KShs. 15.2 million (Table 2).



ANiNEX 12
Page 2
3.        The function of access tracks would be to link individual cane
plots with the road network. In most instances, the tracks would connect
with access roads, although some plots would be close enough to higher-
standard roads to be linked directly. Access roads would form suitable
links between access tracks and the higher-standard feeder roads and com-
prise the lowest standard of road. Feeder roads, in turn, would connect
access roads with collection roads, which provide direct access to the fac-
tory. Map IBRD 12344 depicts the proposed network with the exception of
access tracks, whose location would be determined in the course of develop-
ment of the nucleus estate and outgrowers' cane fields. The following would
be major factors to be considered in the alignment of the various road net-
work components:
(a) the topography of the area;
(b) the location of the factory site;
(c) the utilization of existing roads wherever possible;
except
(d) a preference to avoid use of the A-1 National highway
for cane transportation;
(e) the transportation system to be adopted for trans-
porting cane to the factory;
(f) the requirement for the gradient of the roads not to
exceed 10%; and
(g) the recommendation for the roads or tracks to pass
within a maximum distance of 2.5 km from each cane
plot, and to average around 1-1.5 km.
4.        The general topography of the area is a gently rolling series of
ridges and valleys, forming an intensive natural drainage system which would
require provision for frequent watercourse crossings. The area is traversed
by three major rivers, the Gucha, Sare and Osani, all of which flow from
southeast to northwest into Lake Victoria. The major rivers are perennial
while the majority of the numerous minor streams is seasonal. Although road
alignments would be determined so as to reduce the number of crossings, the
construction of at least two new crossings of both the Osani and Sare rivers
would be necessary. The latter would give direct access to the factory.
Numerous culverts would be required to accommodate both road cross-drainage
and minor streams. The soil structure is generally a catenary which varies
in a predictable manner with height above streams or river level.
5.        The A-1 highway, linking Kisumu via Kisii to Suna near the Tanzania
border, is a bitumen road which was constructed in 1967 for speeds of 80-100
km/hour. In addition, there are some fairly gcod existing roads mainly in



ANNEX 12
Page 3
the outgrowers area, which could be satisfactorily used by incorporating them
into the proposed network. Some extension and upgrading of these roads would
be required to ensure year-round usage. As, to the extent possible, tractor-
trailer units would not be permitted to use the A-i highway, a crossing would
have to be provided either by an underpass or a bridge. Extensive foundation
investigations would be necessary before a final choice is made, although
an underpass, while more expensive, would be preferable from an operational
point of view.
6.        With the development of the Project, general economic growth of
the area would be stimulated and considerable secondary traffic generated.
The latter is estimated at 15% of normal traffic per year for light vehicles
and 10% per year for heavy vehicles up to two years after completion of the
road network in the vicinity of Awendo. All traffic would increase by an
average of 10% per year on the A-1 highway. The Ministry of Works (Roads)
estimates that the heaviest traffic load would be on the Awendo-Rongo section
of the A-1 highway and be as follows:
Class of Vehicle                  Vehicles per day by 1981
Cars                                   370
Light goods                             630
Medium goods                             90
Heavy goods                              68
Buses                                  200
1,358
These estimates are based on the anticipated use of 10-t trucks for the trans-
port of sugar and molasses and include supply vehicles to the factory as well
as the growth in private car ownership. Considering such heavy traffic, the
Ministry of Works expects that once the factory is in full operation, a study
for the possible strengthening of the A-1 highway would have to be undertaken.
7.        All bitumen roads, gravel roads involving large quantities of
earthwork and major structures would be the responsibility of the Mlinistry of
Works and carried out on a contract basis as these operations would require
the use of specialized equipment and manpower. There is a sufficiently large
construction industry with idle capacity in the country to assure proper
construction at competitive prices. Other construction work would be the
responsibility of the sugar company and undertaken mainly by the Company's
Road Construction and Maintenance Unit.   The establishment of such a unit
within the sugar company is proposed because (a) the exact alignment of access
tracks and access roads can only be determined after the selection of farmers
and soil surveys on their land have been completed, which would be a gradual
process extending over a number of years and make tendering difficult, (b)
these stretches are scattered and close coordination between the agricultural



ANNEX 12
Page 4
activities and the construction of access roads and tracks is eeded, and (c)
involvement of the Company in construction and subsequent assumptic. by the
Company of maintenance responsibilities is expected to result in superior
maintenance compared with alternative arrangements. To the extent that the
Company could not implement its share of the roads construction program with
its own construction unit, it would also employ local contractors. Loans for
the roads construction program from the World Bank and the African Development
Bank would be disbursed to Government, and Government would use the funds
to pay private contractors and the Company for their services and on-lend to
the Company that portion related to the construction of roads on the nucleus
estate to be owned by the Company. Approximately 10% of the roads construction
program would be completed in Year 1, 40% each in Years 2 and 3, and 10% in
Year 4.
8.        It is anticipated that the roads and tracks constructed by the
Company would be maintained by the Company, with the remainder being the
responsibility of the Ministry of Works. It would be preferable for the
Company to own the roads construction equipment to facilitate timely replace-
ment, although a possible alternative would be for the Ministry of Works to
acquire the equipment and then lend or lease it to the Company. A list of
equipment required by the Company is presented in Table 3. The cost of
construction and maintenance of roads under the Project is included in Annex
15, Table 16.
January 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROPOSED ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Construction by
Road Construction
Length of Road                                     and Maintenance PUnit                Major Contracts                 Total
Total   Non-Classified   Classified    Unit Cost       Non-Classified      Classified     Non-Classified      Classified          Cost       Remarks
Type of Road                       --------------- (km) ----------       (KShs. 000/km)  Km   KShs. '000   Km   KShs.'00O   Km   KShs.'000   Km   KShs.'000   (KShs.'000)
Access Track                       400          4oo             --              11        400    4,400                                                               4,4oo      4 meter wide dirt roads.
Access Road                        190.8        150             40.8            80        150   12,000                                         4o.8   3,264        15,264       4 meter wide gravel wearing courses with 1
meter wide shoulders and V-shaped side drains.
Feeder Road                        111.5        Bo              31.5           120                                            80    9,600      31.5   3,780        13,380       5.5 meter wide gravel wearing course with 1.75
meter wide shomlders and V-shaped side drains.
Collection Road (Gravel)            25 4        18               7.4          200                                              18    3,600      7.4   1,480         5,080       5.5 meter wide gravel with 1.75 meter wide
shoulders (MOW standard gravel III (2)).
Collection Road (Bitumen)            6.6                         6.6          500                                                               6.6   3,300         3,300       5.5 meter wide bitmsen with 1.75 meter wide
gravel shoulders (MOW standard bitumen III
(2) ).
Factory Access Road                  1.2         1.2             _             600                                              1.2    720                            720       6 meter wide bitmen with 2 meter wide gravel
Subtotal Roads    735.5        649.2           86.3                             i6,4oo                             13,920            11,824        42,144
Bridge                                                                        800                                                                        800          800
Subtotal                                                                        16,400                             13,920            12,624        42,944
Maintenance I/                                                                                   3,031                               2,588             2,589        8,208
Design and Supervision 2J                                                                        1.848                                 331               913        3,092
Baseline Cost                                                                           21,279                              16 839           16,126        54,244
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                              2.128                               1 684            1,612         5,424
Subtotal                                                                        23,407                             18,523            17,738        59,668
Frice Contingencies 2/                                                                   6 r7r                               4.789             4,797       15,759
Total                                                                           29,580                             23,312            22,535        75,427
Unit costs and phasing are detailed in Annex 15, Table 16.
S See Annex 15, Appendix 1.
January 20, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                          ' 



ANNEX 12
Table 2
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ROADS OWNED BY THE SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY 1/
LENGTH                     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5      Total
Factory Access (km)              1.2     --          --                                      1.2
Access Tracks (km)              40          40         40                                  120
Access Roads (km)             --            13         13                                   26
Feeder Roads (km)            --             20         21                                   41
--------------------------- (KShs.'000)-------------------------
COSTS
Construction 2/             1,160       3,880       4,000         --           --        9,040
Supervision, 6%                 70        233         240         --           --          543
Maintenance 2/                --            88        335          589          589      1,601
Subtotal        1,230      4,201       4,575          589          589    11,184
Physical Contingencies,
10%                         123         420         458           59           59     1,119
Subtotal        1,353      4,621       5,033          648          648    12,303
Price Contingencies 3/          68        739       1,460          285          376      2,928
TOTAL           1,421      5,360       6,493          933        1,024    15,231
1/ Includes non-classified roads on the nucleus estate. All roads in
the outgrowers area and classified roads on the nucleus estate would be
owned and maintained by the Ministry of Works.
2/ For unit construction and maintenance costs see Table 1 and Annex 15, Table 16.
3/ See Annex 15, Appendix 1.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 3
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED BY THE ROADS
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE UNIT _/
Quantity  Unit Cost      Total Cost
(KShs.)
Bulldozer With Ripper (D7F-type)                      2     875,000        1,750,000
Bulldozer With Ripper (D6-type) 2/                    3     700,000        2,100,000
Motorgrader (120 model) 2/                            3      575,000       1,725,000
Wheel Loaders With 1.75 Cubic Yard Buckets            2      387,500          775,000
Vibrator Roller                                       1     137,500           137,500
Pneumatic Tire Roller                                 1     375,000           375,000
Tractor                                               1     150,000           150,000
7-ton Tipper Lorries 2/                              15     200,000        3,000,000
Water Tanker (1,000 gal.) 2/                          2      252,000          505,000
Fuel Tanker (1,000 gal.)                              1     250,000          250,000
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle (3/4 canvas type) 2/            3     110,000          330,000
TOTAL                                 11,097,500 3/
1/ Equipment cost included in unit cost estimates shown in Table 1.
2/ Equipment items required for maintenance.
3/ Of which the foreign exchange component represents about 90%.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
HOUSING AND SOCIAL AMENITIES
1.        Because of lack of suitable accommodations in the vicinity of Awendo
town near the factory site, and in conformance with Government policy requir-
ing industrial enterprises to house their permanent staff, the Project would
establish a housing compound for Company employees. Six different types of
houses, with architectural designs approved by Government, would be con-
structed as shown below:
Number of                  Designated
Housing Units       Type     Occupants              Description        Living Area
6             A  -  Senior managerial        3 bedrooms plus            2
and technical staff       amenities          138 m
4             B  -  Other managerial         3 bedrooms plus            2
and technical staff       amenities           102 m
35             C  -  Supervising staff        2 bedrooms plus            2
amenities           70 m
57             D  -  Skilled clerical and   2 bedrooms plus              2
technical staff           amenities           56 m
473             E  -  Clerical and semi-       I bedroom plus             2
skilled staff             amenities            27 m
255             F  -  Unskilled laborer        1 bedroom plus             2
830                                              amenities            19 m
This total does not include the General Manager's supergrade residenc&, which
would be additional. The number of units required has been estimated on the
basis of expected employment by the Company. Full housing provision has been
made for all staff to be accommodated in A-D type houses. In arriving at re-
quirements for houses of types E and F, it has been assumed that 10% of the
clerical and semi-skilled staff, and 15% of the permanently employed unskilled
laborers would reside with their families outside the Company's housing com-
pound or jointly occupy Company houses with other staff.
2.        The houses would be built near the factory.  When deciding the lo-
cality, wind direction, which is southeasterly about 70% of the time, would
be taken into account to avoid, to the extent possible, exposure to the smoke
and odors from the factory. The compound would also be provided with street
lighting, water and sewerage facilities, streets, and furniture for houses
of types A-D. The Company would be the owner of all facilities in the com-
pound, while for administrative purposes the community would belong to the



ANNEX 13
Page 2
of types A-D. The Company would be the owner of all facilities in the com-
pound, while for administrative purposes the community would belong to the
township of Awendo. There is a large construction industry in Kenya which
would be capable of implementing this part of the Project under the super-
vision of the Company's Management. Building materials would largely come
from local sources; imports would consist mainly of steel products.
3.        While a large proportion of the Company's plantation workers would
have their own accommodation close to the nucleus estate, a relatively large
number would originally reside beyond reasonable commuting distance. Further-
more, about 500-600 families would be displaced through the development
of the nucleus estate and would have to be resettled; those joining the
work force at the nucleus estate would be without homes. For these laborers,
the Company would establish rondavels in various stratigically located areas
within or adjacent to the nucleus estate for which the amount of KShs. 5.4
million (US$650,000) has been allowed in the Project cost estimates. Under
the proposed site and services approach the Company would arrange for pre-
paration of the sites and provision of necessary infrastructure on a grant
basis. Prospective employees would obtain building materials on credit
from the Company which would bulk-procure them since there are not sufficient
traders in the area. In case employment with the Company is terminated, the
Company would compensate terminees for their input, settle any outstanding
debts and resell the unit on credit to new employees. Alternatively, the
occupant family could remain if payment of all outstanding debts by the family
can be arranged.
4.        Under the Project the Company would also establish a dispensary,
mother-and-child center, Company store, and facilities to conduct social and
sporting activities for Company staff. Minor medical needs of Company em-
ployees and family members of senior staff would be met by a dispensary
equipped with a six-bed general ward, examination tables, an emergency room,
an operating theatre for minor surgery and a sterilizing and dressing room.
The medical staff would consist of one full-time doctor, two nurses and two
nurses' aides. Family members of Company staff at non-senior levels would
have to rely on public health facilities. Although there are health posts in
Awendo and Rongo, most people requiring major medical attention would be
referred to Migori General Hospital. This hospital, 20 km south of Awendo, is
presently being expanded to a 200-bed capacity and can be reached easily
by road. The Project would furnish an ambulance to provide transport free
of charge.
5.        A mother-and-child center for pre-schoolers would be built, consist-
ing of one large and two small classrooms, a kitchen with pantry to provide
snacks during the day as well as a central courtyard with sand pit. The
center would be operated by one teacher with two assistants. The Company
would not engage in operating a primary school as the Maringa Primary School
would have jurisdiction over Project area residents. The Chemelil Sugar
Company contributed funds to the construction of an additional school and if
necessary, the South Nyanza Sugar Company would persue a similar course in



ANNEX 13
Page 3
the future should the Government be unable to provide adequate failities.
For the education of children of internationally recruited staff the Company
would provide financial assistance.
6.        A Company-operated store would be set up to provide a convenient
outlet at reasonable prices for basic food commodities and other essential
items such as clothing and household goods. A cafeteria would be provided
on the factory premises which would be fully self-supporting without Com-
pany subsidies. A social club would provide a suitable place for social
gatherings and Company staff entertainment, such as movies and dances.
Attached to the club would be a football ground and playing fields to stage
tournaments and other sports and athletic events. Administratively, the
medical and social services would be under the responsibility of the Indus-
trial Relations Officer in the Company's Personnel and Industrial Relations
Department who would be supported by two assistants.
7.        In order to facilitate implementation of the Project, the con-
struction of some of the housing facilities as well as other infrastructure
had to commence early, and it is proposed that related expenditures up to
US$20,000 equivalent be eligible for retroactive financing, provided the
Bank's procurement guidelines have been followed. A summary of cost esti-
mates is included in Annex 15, Table 17.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF TRAINING
1.        The availability of trained staff has been a constraint in the es-
tablishment of industries in Kenya, and the sugar industry has been no ex-
ception. Despite the training programs instituted by new companies in the
past, existing companies had lost from 30 to 70 skilled staff members each
time a new factory was commissioned, who had to be replaced with less-skilled
personnel. But even with these transfers the new companies had to fill some
positions with untrained employees (Annex 3). In view of the expected rapid
expansion of the sugar industry, it is necessary to embark upon a systematic
and comprehensive training program to satisfy future manpower needs.
Coordination at the National Level
2.        Because of the large number of disciplines and persons involved,
national coordination of the training effort is required. Towards this
objective, the Kenya Sugar Authority would establish the position of Training
Officer with authority to liaise with Government Ministries, the training
officers of the sugar companies, and educational and training institutions and
develop a training program that would meet the industry's long-term manpower
needs. This would require first the completion of a detailed survey of staff
availability in all disciplines employed by the industry. Projected future
needs of existing and new companies would then be aggregated on a year-by-year
basis and matched against likely availabilities. Apparent projected manpower
deficits would provide the basis for the formulation of a master industry
manpower development plan. KSA would submit an acceptable plan to the Bank
before December 31, 1978.  The personnel costs for these activities are
included in Annex 15, Table 20. Draft terms of reference for KSA's Training
Officer are included in Annex 17, and for the Company's Training Officer in
Annex 18.
Training of Company Staff
3.        Of the estimated 920 permanent staff to be employed by the Company,
36 would be initially internationally recruited (Table 1). At least one-half
of all staff would require some form of training. An estimated 320 persons at
different levels, from managerial positions down to skilled or semi-skilled
technicians, would require formal training of varying types preparatory
to the actual start of manufacturing operations. Training programs would
also have to be organized to prepare for an eventual assumption by Kenyans
of managerial and technical positions initially filled by internationally
recruited staff (para. 17). The foregoing programs could be categorized in
terms of a time frame and in terms of the various types of programs for
specific expertise to be developed. The estimated costs of training are shown
in Annex 15, Table 19. For estimating the Company's future costs of training,
it has been assumed that a continuous outlay, equal to 25% of total training
cost for Years 1-3, would be required.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        The training program for Years 1-5 would aim at enabAing Company
staff to start each phase of the various operations as scheduled. fhe
agricultural operations would start early, since sufficient quantity of cane
must be grown in both the nucleus estate and outgrowers' areas to be ready
for harvest at the start of factory operations, tentatively scheduled in
Year 4. Anticipated training requirements for each of the four Company De-
partments are outlined below.
5.        Agricultural Department Training.  Among the staff to be hired
locally at the middle management or technical levels would be the Outgrowers
Division Manager and the Assistant Agronomist. Candidates for these posi-
tions could be available in the existing factories, subject to proper clear-
ance. The training for staff in these posts would be in the nature of "on-
the-job" instruction by internationally recruited staff concerning Company
policies, plans and programs, administrative procedures, and sugar-growing
technology and husbandry. The training would be supplemented by observation
tours to other sugarcane-producing countries, possibly including Mauritius.
Such tours which would take approximately four weeks per country, are sche-
duled for Year 2.
6.        One local surveyor would be hired in Year 1 and three assistant
surveyors each year from Years 2 to 4. The surveyors would be given on-
the-job instruction on the agricultural development program, primarily by
the Agricultural Services Division Manager, who would be an Agricultural
Engineer.
7.        The section supervisors in the Nucleus Estates Division and
Outgrowers Division who would supervise routine agricultural operations
would normally have a degree or diploma in agriculture, with practical
training on farms. One supervisor would be required during Year 1, two
each in Years 2 and 3, and one each in Years 4 and 5. There would be no
difficulty in hiring staff for these positions from agricultural colleges
and, to a limited extent, from the private sector in Kenya. The initial
training programs for section supervisors would be an "in-house" program
to be carried out by the internationally recruited staff on the technical
aspects of cane husbandry, Company policies and administrative procedures and
supervision. Staff below supervising level in the Outgrowers Division,
who together with their supervisors would constitute the agricultural exten-
sion staff, would be drawn from existing extension services in the coun-
try and given individual on-the-job training or be sent to refresher courses
as required.
8.        There would be a total of six supervisors and assistant super-
visors in the Agricultural Services Division. The supervisor for the Con-
struction Section would have a Diploma in Agriculture, with familiarity in
mechanized farming methods. The Harvesting Section and Transport Section
supervisors would also have similar qualifications and be familiar with
transport equipment. Supervisors' training would be handled by the agri-
cultural engineer heading the Division. The Workshop Section supervisor



ANNEX 14
Page 3
would have a diploma in mechanical engineering, with special training and
practical experience in tractor repairs and overhauling, and the maintenance
of automotive vehicles. The candidate required would presently be holding
a responsible position, but not necessarily in the existing sugar factories.
For all supervisors, on-the-job instructions could be supplemented by actual
observations of similar operations in existing factories for about four weeks.
9.        The Department's overseers and headmen would be performing similar
functions, except that the headmen would be relatively junior. They would be
generally in charge of smaller groups of laborers assigned to routine agri-
cultural operations in the field. Their training would be carried out by
the respective Section supervisors with the Division head monitoring the pro-
gress of such training activities. The instruction would include the basic
techniques applicable to their functions, supervisory techniques, and admin-
istrative procedures.
10.       The largest group of employees in the Agricultural Department
that would require training would be the maintenance personnel and drivers or
tractor operators. There would be a total of 26 mechanics, electricians and
other craftsmen employed in Years 1 to 5. Of those, it is assumed that 20%
would have some previous training and practical experience. The remaining
mechanics, electricians, fitters, welders, and blacksmiths would have to
undergo basic training in their respective trades. This would have to be
arranged with the Industrial Training Center (ITC) at Kisumu. Operated by the
Ministry of Labor for manpower development, this Center handles training in
such trades as arc and gas welding, pipe fitting, mechanical fitting, machi-
nists, tools and dies, automotive mechanics, diesel engine mechanics, electri-
cians, etc. The Center could accommodate up to 160 students for 12-week
live-in courses at a cost of KShs. 300 per week, including tuition, board and
lodging. These costs are payable to the ITC, but once the Company starts
production and would be subject to a training fund levy of KShs. 2 per ton of
sugar, future costs of sending trainees to the center would be partially
reimbursed to the Company from this fund.
11.       For a continuous development program up to an annual factory capa-
city of 90,000 t, the total number of 256 drivers to be hired in Years 1-7
would provide for two-shift operations in the Agricultural Department's
transport operations which could last more than ten months of the year during
harvest time, and also meet the requirements of all other Departments of the
Company. Some candidates with driver's training and experience would be
generally available. However, because of the number required, and the pos-
sible non-familiarity of these drivers with Company equipment to be operated,
it would be necessary to have most of these drivers undergo a training pro-
gram. There would be two types of programs. For candidates with driving
skills, the program would consist of a two-week course on familiarization with
the operation of the equipment, preventive maintenance procedures, trouble
shooting, safety procedures, traffic regulations, peculiarities of trailer
operations, and Company administrative procedures. The familiarization with
the equipment possibly could be arranged with the equipment suppliers while
the rest of the instruction would be given by the Transport Section Supervisor.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
The drivers would have to pass written and practical tests to qualify. Can-
didates without prior driving skills would have to undergo similar instruction
as already qualified drivers; in addition, practical instruction would be re-
quired before they could apply for a driver's license. The Ministry of Labor
would provide qualified instructors. It would normally take three weeks for
a learner to acquire sufficient driving skill. Assuming that of the 256 dri-
vers to be recruited, at least 20% would have prior driving experience, the
total number to undergo instruction from Year 1 to 7 would be as follows:
Years       1    2     3      4     5     6      7     Total
To be hired                      10   17    16    99    50    16    48         256
With driving experience, 20%    2    3        3    20    10      3     9        50
Number needing driving
instruction                   8   14    13    79    40    13    39         206
The Department's training requirements are summarized in Table 2.
12.       Factory Department Training.  At the middle management level, the
following would be recruited locally:
I Civil Engineer
1 Assistant Civil Engineer
1 Assistant Electrical Engineer
A degree in the candidates' respective engineering fields would be necessary,
together with practical experience. Extensive experience would be of parti-
cular importance for the Civil Engineer who would take charge of civil engi-
neering maintenance in the factory and be available for consultations on
other Company activities. The experience of these engineers need not be in
a sugar factory. The engineers' training would be handled by the Chief En-
gineer and the Electrical Engineer and include familiarization with plant op-
eration and maintenance, Company policies and administrative procedures. Be-
fore the actual start-up of factory operations, the engineers would undergo
a 12-week apprenticeship program in existing factories.
13.       The Company would require approximately 34 foremen, of which nine
would be internationally recruited and have extensive training and practical
experience in sugar factory operations. These would include three each of
mill foremen, boiler foremen, and crystallization foremen. The mill and
boiler foremen in the Milling Section of the Engineering Division would be
able to train the other foremen in their section and the various machine
operators and tenders, under the supervision of the Shift Enginee"rs.  The
f



ANNEX 14
Page 5
training would be on-the-job instruction on machinery operation. Additional
training assistance on actual machine operation and preventive maintenance
procedures would be available from the machinery suppliers at the start
of operations. The foremen would also undergo an 8-week apprenticeship
program in an existing factory before the Company's own factory starts opera-
tions. The Electrical Engineer would supervise on-the-job training of the
electrician foremen and telephone foremen and of the various machine operators
under these foremen. Electricians, winders, and linemen would undergo basic
training at ITC. The Mechanical Engineer would be responsible for the train-
ing of maintenance foremen and mechanics, turners/lathemen, welders, etc.
which would include a basic training course at an ITC. The construction
foreman in the Civil Engineering Section would have the necessary experience
and training when hired. He would be instructed regarding his responsi-
bilities and duties.
14.       The Processing Division would initially have seven internationally
recruited staff, who would be able to supervise on-the-job training of the
local foremen in the Division and the operators in each Section. The local
foremen would undergo a 12-week apprenticeship program with an existing
factory. The Control Division would be staffed initially with four interna-
tionally recruited experts, namely, the Chief Chemist and three Assistant
Chemists who would train the laboratory technicians. Six laboratory analysts
and three water analysts would undergo a 24-week apprenticeship with an
existing factory.
15.       One set of operators for one shift in each of the Milling and
Electrical Sections of the Engineering Division and the Clarification, Cry-
stallization, Centrifugal, Bagging and Water Supply Stations of the Proces-
sing Division would undergo apprenticeship programs in the existing fac-
tories for varying periods of 12-14 weeks. Details on the Factory Depart-
ment's training requirements are presented in Table 3.
16.       Finance and Administration Department Training.  There would ini-
tially be four internationally recruited staff in this Department, namely, the
Controller, Administrative Officer, Chief Accountant and the Cost Accountant,
who would meet most of the training requirements for local staff hired for the
Department. The staff in the General Accounting and Cost Accounts Division of
the Department would generally have the necessary accounting education back-
grounds, the majority being college graduates of Kenya universities with
majors in accounting subjects. The training program would consist of courses
in administration/finance for a small number of staff members (para. 17),
and on-the-job instruction in verifying, classifying, recording and report-
ing on financial and operational data. The administrative staff in the
Factory Department and Agriculture Department would likewise be included
in the training program of this Department to assure uniformity in admin-
istrative and accounting procedures.
17.       Personnel and Industrial Relations Department Training.  The De-
partment's Training Officer would plan, in cooperation with the Agricultural,
Factory, and Finance and Administration Departments all of the Company's
training programs and monitor the progress of these programs to assure that



ANNEX 14
Page 6
schedules are met, and organize proper arrangements with ITC and o'her sugar
companies for training outside the Company premises. The Personnel and
Industrial Relations Department and the Finance and Administration Department
would jointly nominate ten of their employees for courses of 8-10 weeks in
those disciplines where deficiencies become apparent during recruitment.
Scholarships and Special Programs
18.       The training of top-level staff to replace internationally recruited
staff has high priority in Kenya. Since such staff are expected to transfer
among sugar companies as vacancies arise, related staff development should be
considered outside the sphere of individual companies and the cost borne
either by the industry as a whole, or Government. In estimating Project
costs, provision has been made for a one-year overlap in appointments of
internationally recruited staff and designated local replacements in the Kenya
Sugar Authority and the National Sugar Research Institute. No such provision
has been made explicitely for Company staff as internationally recruited staff
employed there would remain much longer, and replacements would generally be
selected through promotion from the ranks.
19.       In addition to counterpart training by the internationally recruited
experts there would basically be four types of formal programs, specifically
to facilitate Kenyanization of top-level positions and, generally, to build up
a management cadre for the sugar industry, as follows:
Graduate business programs at foreign universities;
Sugar technology programs overseas;
Participation in international symposiums on sugar technology;
In-plant management development programs.
20.       Graduate business programs would involve overseas scholarships of
2-3 years. Mechanical or chemical engineering undergraduate backgrounds
would be preferred, and the candidates chosen on the basis of competitive
examinations, personality, and commitment to work with a sugar company.
Candidates accepted would be subject to their qualifying for admission in
reputable universities abroad. The estimated cost per student is US$10,000
per year including travel, tuition, fees, books and living expenses if ad-
mission is sought in a reputable business school in Western countries. How-
ever, there are universities of internationally accepted standards offering
similar courses at less cost, and the program should preferably include a
range of universities. With an expansion of the program by one student each
in Years 1, 2 and 4 and continuous replacement of returning students, and
assuming one two-year and two three-year cycles, there would be three gradu-
ates available after Year 5, and nine after year 10.
21.       Sugar technology courses normally take four years.  These courses
are offered in several sugarcane producing counries. Supplementary factory
apprenticeship programs would be arranged to provide practical training



ANNEX 14
Page 7
after graduation. Applicants would be at least graduates of high school,
and similar selection criteria as for business programs (para. 20) would be
applied.  The estimated cost is US$9,000 per student per year.  With an in-
phasing of the program of one student each in Years 1, 2 and 3, the return-
ing graduates would number two after five years, and six after ten years.
22.       Participation in symposiums and conventions of sugar technolo-
gists is recommended to keep industry personnel informed of technological de-
velopments.  Such one-week symposiums or conventions are generally held once
a year in all sugarcane producing countries with organizations of sugar tech-
nologists. Two-week international conventions are held once every three
years by the International Society of Sugarcane Technologists. Qualified
agricultural and factory staff would be nominated for participation by the
various sugar companies. The arrangement of scholarships and special programs
would be the responsibility of the Kenya Sugar Authority.
23.       The foregoing programs would be limited to a very small percentage
of total industry staff. To accelerate the upgrading process, it would be
necessary to have separate programs on company premises with broader partici-
pation of staff. There are a number of international consulting firms who
have expertise in improving management capabilities of staff at various
functional management levels. One approach found effective in several de-
veloping countries is a program combining lecture-discussions on principles,
methods and techniques, and supervised practical applications of these in
actual company situations. Towards the end of one-month lecture discussions
on management subjects (organization, production, supervision, management
accounting, and industrial engineering techniques, among others), staff
participants identify specific projects to be undertaken by separate task
forces and monitored by a steering group from upper management levels. These
specific projects focus on current problems of the company. To be effective,
the projects have targets that are measurable over a time frame, such as
reduction of unusually high inventory levels, low sugar processing recovery
rates, etc. Since such a program is not recommended for the South Nyanza
Sugar Company to start before the third year of factory operations, no al-
lowance has been made in Project cost estimates. An estimated 24 man-months
of consultant's time would eventually be required.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 14
Table 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
LIST OF INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED STAFF
A. South Nyanza Sugar Company
General Management:
General Manager                                    1
Agricultural Department Manager                    1
Factory Department Manager                         1
Controller                                         1
Subtotal                       4
Agricultural Department:
Agronomist                                         1
Nucleus Estate Division Manager                    1
Agricultural Services Division Manager             1
Subtotal                       3
Factory Department:
Chief Engineer                                     1
Shift Engineer                                     3
Mill Foreman                                       3
Boiler Foreman                                     3
Electrical Engineer                                1
Instrument Engineer                                2
Mechanical Engineer                                1
Processing Superintendent                          1
Assistant Superintendent                           3
Crystallization Foreman                            3
Chief Chemist                                      1
Assistant Chemist                                  3
Subtotal                      25
Finance and Administration Department:
Administrative Officer                             1
Chief Accountant                                   1
Cost Accountant                                    1
Subtotal                       3
Personnel and Industrial Relations Department:
Training Officer                                   1
Total                         36
B. Kenya Sugar Authority
Planning/Finance Director                          1
Agricultural Research/Extension Director           1
Factory Technology Director                        1
Manpower Development Director                      1
Evaluation Officer                                 1
Procurement Officer                                1
Total                          6
C. National Sugar Research Institute
Production Economist                               1
Agronomist/Engineer                                1
Irrigation/Drainage Specialist                     1
Total                          3
GRAND TOTAL                         45
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF TRAINING REQUIREMENTS 1/
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
Length of
Type of Training and Trainee           Program      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   TOTAL
(Weeks)     --              (Number of Trainees) --------------
Observation Tours Abroad
Outgrowers Division Manager             4                      1                                      1
Assistant Agronomist                    4                      1                                      1
Apprenticeship in Existing Company
Supervisors                             4                               4                             4
Industrial Training Center
Mechanic                               12            1         6         3        1                  11
Electrician                            12            1         1        1                             3
Fitter                                 12            1         1        1                             3
Welder                                 12            1         1        1                             3
Blacksmith                             12            1         1                                      2
Driver's Instruction
Beginner and Advanced                   3            8        14       13        79        40      154
On-the-Job Training 2/
Supervisor                                           3         2                  1         1         7
Assistant Supervisor                                                    2                             2
Overseer/Headman                                     6        22       21        13        13        75
Assistant Surveyor                                             1        1         1                   3
Toolkeeper                                           1                                                1
Carpenter                                                      1        1                             2
Mason                                                                   1                             1    (Dx
Administrative Officer                               2                                                2    "-
Accounting Clerk                                     2                                                2
Clerk-Typist                                         1         2        2                             5
TOTAL                          28       54        51        95       54       282
l/   For the estimated cost of training, see Annex 15, Table 19.
2/   No extra cost, except advanced hiring of selected staff, has been
allowed for this type of training.
September 30, 1976



ANNEX 14
Table 3
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF TRAINING REQUIREMENTS j
FACTORY DEPARTMENT
Length of
Type of Training and Trainee            Program       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5    TOTAL
(weeks)            -    ---------- (Number of Trainees) ------------------
Apprenticeship in Existing Company
Civil Engineer                          4                         1                                                 1
Assistant Electrical Engineer           12                                     1                                    1
Yard Foremen                             8                                     3                                    3
Boiling House Equipment Foremen          8                                     3                                    3
Electrician Foremen                    12                                      3                                    3
Workshop Foremen                         8                                     1                                    1
Repair and Maintenance Foremen           8                                     1                                    1
Clarification/Evaporation Foremen   12                                         3                                    3
Centrifugal Foremen                    12                                      3                                    3
Bagging Station Foremen                  4                                     3                                    3
Water Supply Foremen                    12                                     3                                    3
Laboratory Analysts                    24                                      6                                    6
Water Analysts                         24                                      3                                    3
Crane Operators                        12                                     2                                     2
Feed Carrier Operators                  12                                     6                                    6
Cane Carrier Operator                  12                                      1                                    1
Millhouse Turbine Operator             12                                      1                                    1
'.rill Tender                            4                                     1                                    1
Water Tenders                          24                                      3                                    3
Boiling House Engineer Mechanics         4                                     2                                    2
Junior Electricians                     6                                      3                                    3
Turbine Attendants                     12                                      3                                    3
Assistant Pan Men                      24                                      3                                    3
Hi-Grade Centrifugal Operators           4                                     3                                    3
Low-Grade Centrifugal Operators          4                                     2                                    2
Water Treatment Tenders                  8                                     3                                    3
Effluent Treatment Tenders              8                                     3                                     3
Cane Scalers                             4                                     3                                    3
Mixed Juice Scalemen                     4                                     3                                    3
Industrial Training Center
Crane Operators                        12                                     6                                    6
Millhouse Turbine Operators             12                                     3                                    3
Boiling Equipment Mechanics             12                                     3                                    3
Junior Electricians                    12                                      3                                    3
Turbine Attendants                      12                                     3                                    3
Electrician Winder                      12                                     1                                    1
Electrician Linemen                     12                                     2                                    2
Telephone Mechanics                     12                                     3                                    3
Telephone Linemen                       12                                     2                                    2
Instrument Mechanics                    12                                     4                                    4
Turners/Lathemen                       24                                      4                                    4
Machinsts                               24                                     4                                    4
Welders                                 12                                     4                                    4
Tinsmith                                12                                     1                                    1
Blacksmith                              12                                     1                                    1
Mechanics                               12                                     3                                    3
Welders                                 12                                     2                                    2
Fitters                                 12                                     2                                    2
Carpenters                              12                                     2                                    2
TOTAL                                            1         128                                  129
1   7or l.he estimated cost of training see Annex 15, Table 19; excludes
on-the-job training for which no extra cost, except advanced hiring of
selected staff, has been allowed.
.epterber 30, 1976



ANNEX 15
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
CONTENTS
TABLE
1. Summary of Project Costs
2. Agricultural Department General Overhead
3. Agricultural Department - Agricultural Services Division - Capital Costs
4. Agricultural Department - Agricultural Services Division - Recurrent Costs
5. Nucleus Estate Development - Capital Costs
6. Nucleus Estate Development - Recurrent Non-Variable Costs
7. Nucleus Estate Development - Recurrent Variable Costs
8. Outgrowers Development - Capital Costs
9. Outgrowers Development - Recurrent Non-Variable Costs
10. Outgrowers Development - Recurrent Variable Costs
11. Drainage
12. Sugar Factory - Capital Costs
13. Sugar Factory - Recurrent Non-Variable Costs
14. Sugar Factory - Recurrent Variable Costs
15. General Management and Administration
16. Roads
17. Housing and Social Amenities
18. Research
19. Staff Training
20. Kenya Sugar Authority
21.  Interest Payments and Commitment Fees on External Loans
22.  Cost Element Qualifying for Retroactive Finbacing
Appendix 1. Contingencies



SOI,TH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
S'UMMARY OF PRO,TECT COSTS
(KShs. '000)
Foreign Exchange      Total      Percent Distribution
Reference   Year 1      Year F     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5       Total        %     Amoun)t US$ o             of' Baseline Costs
BASELINE COSTS
A. Agriculture
1. Agricultural Depart.ent
(a) G,eneral Overhead
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 2          130         30                                           16o       53         85          19               (
(ii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 2          351        445         479        489        489       2,253        44       992         271               (.)
(b) Agricultural Services Divisios
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 3        1,353        4t6        288         731        111       2,899        64     1,857         349               (e 
(ii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 4        1,381      2,624      2,96)       5,546      5,507      18,023        26     4,668       2,171                 3
2. Nocleus Estate Development
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 5       15,626      7,563         109      5,831        222      29,351        57    16,704       3,536
(ii) Recurrent Costs-Non-Variable   Table 6          421       1,407       1,599      1,598        864       5,889        50     2,960         710                 1
-Variable       Table 7          599      ?,892       2,838      6,133       5,998     18,460        43     7,980       2,224                 3
3. Oactgrowers Development
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 8       1,156       3,196        215       7,498      1,321      14,386        84    12,134       1,73                  2
(ii) Recurrent Costs-Noo-'Jariable   Table 9        1,o46        545         726        882      1,002       4,2o0        29     1,103         50e                 1
-Variable       Table 10         652      3,048       3,o48      8,308      11,569     26,625        57    15,093       3,208                 5
4. Drainage
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 11      1,178        __                                           1,178       76        894         i42               ( )
(ii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 11           9        299        297         169        171       1,055        64       670         127        _       .)
S,Ibtotal                24,912      22,465     12,564      37,185     27,254    114,480        52    65,240      14,997                 20
B.  Sugar Facto
(Ti Capital Costs                    Table 12      84,688    134,372      58,711      2,122        54o    280,233         aO   222,893      33,763                46
(ii) Recurrent Costs-Non-Variable   Table 13         656       1,190      4,111      10,073      9,922      25,952        51    13,144       3,127                 4
-Variable       Table 14        _-   _         _       _         4,529       6,463     10,992        44     4,825       1,324                 2
Subtotal                  85,34k    135,562      62,622     16,724      16,925    317,177 9      7    240,862 _3,214                     52
C.  General Management and Administration
(a) Capital and Recurrent Costs
(i)  Capital Costs                   Table 15         761        866         853        412                  2,892        58     1,666         348               (.)
(ii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 15       1,862      1,976      4,693       7,065      7,130      23,726        30     7,077       2,859                 4
(b) Management Fee                       Table 15       1  121      1,121       1,121     1,210        1,210     5.783       100     5,783         697                 1
Subtotal                   3,744      4,963       6,667      8,687       8,340     32,401        45    14,526       3,904                 5
D. Roads                                         Table 16       5,o66      17,754     20,532       7,429      3,463      54,244       6o    32,545       6,536                  9
S.  Housing and Social Ameoitico                  Table 17     10,736      10,899     21,729       2,607       --        45,971        34    15,661       5,538                 8
F.  Research
Ci)  Capital Costs                   Table 18         382      1,305         180                             1,867        77     1,443         285               ()
Nii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 18         596      2,153       2,611      1,799       1,819      8,978        47     4,258       1,082                 2
Subtotal                    9Y/       3,458       2,791      1,799       1,81Y     10,845        53      3,7101     1,71
0.  Training                                     Table 19         212         471      1,21'7        851        788       3,539       56      1,979         427                 1
H.  KenYa Sug  AuthoritY
(i)Capital Costs                     Table 20         291        441          65                                797       56        450         96               (.)
(ii) Recurrent Costs                 Table 20       1,199      4,017       4,767      3,849       3,069     16,901        32      5,424      2,036                 3
Sabtotal                   2,490       4,458      4,832       3,mk9      3,069      17,698       33      5,874    -21,32                   3
Su,btotal Baseline Costs                1R2,482    200,030    132,954       79,231     61,658    606,355         63   382,388      73,055               100
CONTINGENCIES
A. Physical                                                     3,625       6,157       6,994      7,464       5,763     30,003        51    15,176       3,615                 5
B.  Price                                                        2,564     12,545     23,601      28,866     30,732      98,308        51    49,748      11,844                16
Subtotal Contingencies                    6,189     18,702      30,595     36,330      36,495    128,311        51    64,924      15,459                21
Subtotal Baseline Costa
Flne Contingencies                 138,671    218,732    163,549    115,561       98,153    734,666         61   447,312      88,514               121
TNTEREST PAYMENTS AND COMMITMENT FEEl            Table 21       7,352      16,676     24,419      50,744     40,i80    139,371        10"   139,371      16,792                23
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 146,023    235,408    187,968    166,305    138,333    874,037           67   586,683    105,306                144
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT 3
GENERAL OVERHEAD 3
(KShs. '000)
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                  Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost            No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    TOTAL                   - Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles
Company Cars                              45                  1        45                                                                             45       60         27
Office Machines, Equipment
and Furniture                                                          85               30                                                           115       50         58
Subtotal                                                 130                30                                                          160        53        85
Physical Contingencies, 10O                                         13                3                                                            16       53          9
Subtotal                                                 143                33                                                          176        53        94
Price Contingencies 3/                                               4                3                                                             7       53          4
TOTAL                                                    147                36                                                          186        53        98
B.  RECIRRENT COSTS                          Unit Costs
Yearly
Salaries                        Salaries  Benefits  Total
Agricultural Manager  /         120        84       204       1       204      1       204      1       204      1        204     1        204    1,020         70       714
Secretary                        24         6        30       1        30      1         30     1         30     1         30     1         30       150        --       --
Administrative Officer           33          8       41                        1         41     1         41     1         41      1        41       164        __       __
Accounts Clerk                   20          5       25                        1         25     1         25     1         25      1        25       100        __        __
Clerk Typist                      7          1        8       1         8      2        16      3        24      3         24     3         24        96        __       __
Messenger                         3          1        4       1         4      1          4     1          4     1          4      1         4        20        -_       --
Subtotal Salaries                                4       246      7        320     8        328     8        328     8        328    1,550         47       714
Other Expenditures
Travel, Moving                                                         32                39               45               45               45       206        50        103
Vehicle Running Costs                                                  25                25               25               25               25       125        60         75
Printing, Stationery,
Other Supplies                                                       10               15               23                23               23        94        40         38
Books and Periodicals                                                  12                12               12               12               12        60        30         18
Other Expenses and Communications                                      12                18               24               27               27       108        20         22
Uniforms, Tools, Equipment                                             14                16               22               29               29       110        20         22
Subtotal ther Expenditures                              105               125              151              161              161       703        40        278
Subtotal                                                 351               445              479              489              489    2,253         44        992
Physical Contingencies, lo0                                         35               45                48               49               49       226        44         99
Subtotal                                                 386               490              527              538              538    2,479         44      1,091
Price Contingencies 3/                                              14               60              119               180              249       622        44        273
TOTAL                                                     400              550              646              718               787    3,101        44      1,364
3   The cost of the Research Staff Unit is included in Table 18.                                                                                                                 >
E  Includes the Agricultural Manager's office and the Department's administrative services staff.                                                                              -
See Appendix 1.
g  To be recruited internationally.
December 30, 1976



AG~RICULTlMlaL  TiVrFDBEw           CI1AL COBt  ,
niD t        Year 1         i eb     2               il9~            l.so                Y Jp61                    ForeL in  A opad
A,  MFAGADMlT AnD AO5llNLSTRATIO  |/
Cebtoiss
cV he   Ce a                                45        1       48                                                                                      45        63         27
Offic lOeiiS. E1iV i. t, sal
onitre                                                       150  l                                                                                  160        50         80
ititot.a  A                           19S                 10                                                                  205        52        107
B IT F3EPAMThAtION SRC710d 2/
Fpr_-WhOel  Sro_  Short Moe                81         1       01                                                                                      f1        60         49
Fqur-Wheel tloe  Long Base                105 0                          1      1o0                                                                  100        60         60
sotoroyolee                                 7         1        7         2       A                                                                    21        60         13
TPldLg Trailers                            27         1       27         2       54                                                                   81        60          9
F1eld MsLete-soc V hBte..                 107         1      107         1      17,         1      107                                               321        75        193
Snbtot.h L                             M                 27'                107                                               604        60        364
C. S03VRS 00RSF
Vehi rise
Four-Wheel trL-, LpqR .. Bas 100                      1     iCC                                                                                     130        60         60
Eqipteot                                                       30                                                                                      30        75         23
Frnit-re                                                        20                                                                                      20        30          6
Subtotal C                            150                                                                                     150        59         89
D.  HARVE9TIG S1Cr010
Four-Wheel  lre  Inng Bae.                100                                                                  1      100                            100        60         60
Four-Whr L Lrie, Short Bs                  81                                               1       81                            1       B1         162        6O         97
Motoroyoiee                      ~~~~                                                                      ~~7  9  63                      63        60         38
qOp-Bt                                                                                                                   30                 30          6o        30         18
Duhtosa  D                                                                   81                193                l11         385        55        213
eL-ANE TRANSPORT SEOFIONJ
Oshinses
Four-eh-el  ritP D   oo O-Ne              100                                               1      1 00                                              10         60         60
ot-rcycls                                    7                                                                 6      to                              42        60         2
Subtotal E                                                                  100                 42                            142        60         85
Onohlosry Sri CqudBoeot,   12                  70                                                                                                                             2
Yor -Berie  33"1  elAn  itoC'             70        4        3                                                                                       3       30           2
hort Y     tce-                              1         2                                                                                               2        70           1
Cis     'tho-r-                          17.3       2       35                                                                                      35        70         25
OCeorsessel RHieB 25 ft  LIog                0.2     10        2                                                                                       2        70           1
0ohOle Barorr With Chain
join 30 l orlciy                         16         1       i6                                                                                      16        70         11
Boiler Fit-  c-Aro  Hydrarir,
4u  C-n cit5 4                                      3       16                                                                                      1i        70          Ll
F"on  Jsuke  Iors                            0.0       3       1                                                                                       1        70           1
Hlgh ireceurl, istes CltAoer 0100h
Hour OtoarooF  t lo  pai               i6                 il1                                                                                    1i         7O          11
L,lricatlo  .. HiBh  rsure
r         t5sin4 o                       5 4       3       16                                                                                     il         7-         11
-rs      ue,          3ig 1                           6       6                                                                                                             4 4
Mrstoic  Arc Ue          S;t,                        1        7         1        7                            1        7 B1 et
OsWeldih, Set 0100 Cart,
looesekrlsr Set Ulth C^,                  4         1        4         1        4                            1        4                             12        70          B
oeohaooT-rKitO                               4         1        4         1       4                            17eC                                                          B
ontfoeIf  h aioie                           if         1       6 f               1i6                           2       32                             64       70          4S
FIthl'5rti,     r CalSpore                   o.6       2        1                                                                                       1       70
Set or  ens. d  Calipers                    2          1       2                                                                                       .        79
et o  reseu         - -gloe  trv nte        2          1       2                                                                                                70           1
CaIrn _ einoer Bai-s                       22          1      2I                                                                                      22        70          15
OnionSent GeOrider                          13         1      13                                                                                      13        70           9
BtoCyidrod Peino- Tents                      1        5                                                                                               70          4.
Cylinder Boos                                2         1        2                                                                                               70
Cylinder Bario, Bar                          I         1        4.                                                                                               70
Battery Cb, trs, ReotiFier 7ype              2         3        6                                                                                      6         70          4
Battey Cartwr, AlterAtao
1-torType                                  3                  3                                                                                      3        70           2
tnt  Fatterr Tool nod doApstue               0.5       2        1                                                                                       1       70           1
Atrnao.       -enrtrretr                      .                2                                                                                                70           1
Ep jir  PouIyeer, Fortrble                   4         1        4                                                                                       4       10           I
lIssitstrTeeter6                                               8                                                                                       0        70          6
Ciutoh o Braerti-s squiptAent               10.8       3       32                                                                                      3         70         23
Lot.e WOlth A-reesrtee                      86         1       86                                                                                      86        70         60
Wood Workiog  fthinn   tiosret-
Type                                     s4          1      54                                                                                      56        70          38
Blakistth rorge Wlth A-oaseortes            16         1       16f                                                                                     6        70          11
BtIkatti  Toohe                              9         1        9                                                                                       9        70          6
sprey Ptittio   Equiet_t                     5.4       3       16                                                                                      16        70         11
Pil       r Bydraulor Liftr, 15 t
Catoity                                    5         1        D                                                                                      5        72          4
nubtotnl
Ss_hi_ery end W quip-at                        437                 31                                    47                            515        70         361
T- T-k7   . Diesel Driven, 10
",eels With B- ind
Metortasd A-th                          2049         1     21.9                                               1     212 9                          1.8        6V0        30
Fo h-Ste  Br-., .Ioog Base              100         1    306          1      ins                            2      a0                              gg         6         h
VaNelris                               349                100                                                                  sog d9B    71        638
ftbtotl 7                            786                 1g                                   496                          1,413         71        999
Bgbtotel
A,B,C,D,Z                          M1,353                416                28                 731                131       2.ag          64      1,8s7
Physical co ttingencns, 1.04                                    136              i42                   29                73                  11           ,        a          iB
Epbtotel                             t,489               458                317                OCae               122       31e90         64     2,d3
Pric  CotitteeoIs i                                              lb                45                  60                225                1go tio                a        s
TOTAL                               1e533                503                377              LeU9                 167        3.6o9        64      2,311
if  Lts  toteoens Cqte ostracticne_t__ aqistae   0t00   penlnd a   it T1ek  16.
if  Refer  tO Aaslnuiurs.,l  Bentes hitstie ea
tFators, i          -wte td s iat  *b laslesi i. TSbls 5 aW  8
/Dose not '-otuI 00ss Ir lIen fentor  -ar ,W, tideb  -n  iseleeL    in Yabis 12.
S.   Appetdhf 1.
Sptenb-er 30, 1976



awrE~ ~ ~ ma
A.  nm2R,..4~~~~~~gu1iTRA!Ine1- 
lanagarj                                        0          63       13           1         53       1       153        1       1u         1       1if        1       153        765         70        53
Offtomseperrlaer                33          ~ ~ ~~~8 431 1                 1         41       1 h                1                           1         11       205         --         -
deot.tCl.r                                     16          I,        ii          1        14       1         114      1         it,      1         114      1          4i       50          -         -
OCi-k    1atr                                   7           1         a          1                 2        IA        2        16        2         2A       2.       oA         12        -          --
nu1.tntalOelarie.                         1.      210        5       281~~~~~                                ~~~.4  5  2     2* 5 21. 11            48         5-36
Ornoel  luIn   2                                                                          35                 35                 35                35                  35       175         50         88
ehceRnigCoats                                                                   27                 27                 25                 25                 27       135         60          81
Prining,Statneet    Oher Supplies                                                   '        10       1                  10                 10                 10        50         140         20
Bonn and Parlodtoale                                               ~~~~~~                                                  ~         ~        ~ ~~~6  6  6  6  6  30  30         9
Ohrets.olCunntiote                                                             60                13h               134.               134                1314       576        20         115
niom,CTta., 33uigmen                                                                 3                  3                  B                  6                  B        40         00           0
Sut  .0t.1 Other OoEedit-re                                              19                 20                 gm                 200                220     1,0*           0          0
Subtotal A                                                               342                 14       4         1 h4166                     4         .1.4   o,iai         140        A5s
B. 22031SHO 020TT0
Ouparniger                        ~~~          ~~~33  8  61          1        61        1        61       1         61       1         61       1         61       205         --          -
eathonion                         ~~~         ~~~~17  1.  21        2         42       4        8.        4        814       6       126        6       126        4&k          -        -
A..I.t.ntiehols11                                          3         16          1        a14      2         28       2         28       3        14o       3        60        nn5         -         -
Ri9nirInians                      ~~~          ~~12  3   15          1        15        2        30       0         3        3         65       3         65       165         --          -
Itntt                                         16           3        17          1         17       2        36'       7        3         3        51        3        51        18-         -         -
WeId-                                          11          3         16          1        16       0         28       0        nO        3         40       3         42.      136         --        -
Blaok-Itb                                      11          3         16         0         11.      1         i6       1         16       2        28        2        2A         96         --         -
Toelkeeee                                       9          2         11          1        11       1         U        1        11        1         U        1        U-         55         -          -
Car.an-r                                        3          0         11          1        11        1        11       1         11       2         2        2        22         77          -         -
ftean9                                                     2         11          1        '1       I         11       1         11       1        11        1        11         55     .    -         -
nelor                                           3           1         6         14        16      11        144      U1         66      19       *7        13         6        06
Subtotal Salaries                              ~~~      ~~~~15  21-   20    336      20        3351.0                      16         9       ,10-
Tra1,  ,Intn                                                                             22                 35                 35                52                 52        136         6C         118
Onhiln    oring Cosa.                                                                   113               283                283                k61                616      1,517         60        310
prieting,  t.iee'  Oilie  nucli.a                                                         68               163                063                260                2140       8714        40        30
ren   no  Periodical                                                                       2                  3                  3                  5                 5         18         30           1
Otter rEpM.a and lui-ati-n                                                                86               20                 PM0                231                236      1,272         20        211.
ethit.a  Other  peW itdttre                                               133               707                7hS              1,129              1.23      1.2                    ,2
fubtetnl B                                                               536              1,103               1,13              1,621.             1,621     5,390          30      1,820
0,perotenr                        ~~~         ~ ~~33  3  141         1        41 1I4 1                              141  1   41        1 4                4i       205         -         -
Ocereeere                           3    ~     ~ ~ ~~ ~            ~ 2  11  1  11      3         33       3         33       3        33        3        33        1143         -         -
finadoer                           1~    ~     ~    ~ ~        ~~4  1  5  1    5       6         30       6         30       6         30       6         30       125         -         -
pricers                                   2         3 ~ ~~~           ~~~~     ~~~~~ 16  166  50  145o  50   450      46        414      144       336     1,8s14 
-ildnhaice                                 20                     5            1        5                5                   0       2         5        2         50       225          -         -
Ouhtoial Sniectris                            20~~~~~~~~206     62       6041      02        06N      5i         a        t        550    2.52           -          -
OtherOpedtue
T-1re, Mtt-le                                                                             15                 15                 15                 15                 15        25         50          30
VehIle Ihooo  One-                                                                     i1.4               281                281                2891               260     1,207         60         726
rrtritg,Otatnnar, Oher torrlie                                                     15                 15                 15                 15                 15        75         ho          30
nooks ad P-irOdionle                                                                       1                  1                  1                  1                  1         5         30           2
Otberspe.sadotCel tt...                                                                    6                  6                  4                  4                 1.        20         20           14
'nrna   To1s, tquipe                                                                220               555                                                      351    ~ Oh                      j
Ouhital Other poEndit-re                                                 153                 F137                                 27130                      1,h2                      W.87
S.htotal C                                                                385               975             -375                  9333               322    14,276         20         870
Olrvoyor                           20    ~    ~~        ~~ ~ ~ 6  28  1       28        1        28       1         28       1         25       1         28       140         --         -
0aseOO tOrr lr   Salaries               342                   1                                  
Other Otpeodiu-
Tra-e,  orIng                                                                              2                                     2                  I                  2        10         50           5
Veics   uiti   Coste                                                                 014                26                 26                 94                 26       120         6o          72
pr.ttnt,OttleeyOtibSro uflle                                                               7       .          7                  7                  7                  7        35         60          16
Boke so  Pe-idi-ale                                                                        I                                                         I                  1        5         30           1
Oiler  ft....s  o       nncOea                                                                 -1 1- -1 -1                                                                       5         20           2
Oto-m, T.ole, P.qupment                                                                    6            .     6                  6                  6                 6
Subtotal Other Eqip ftu                                                   1.1                1.7                11                 61                 1.1       A ~         4         at
Suttotnl1                                                                122                222                122                1010                          710        20         1014
OecMTe7tO SECTIONI
SuperIsr33                                                 3         1.1                                              1         hi       1        141       1         4.0      103          -
eA iet totOipei...                            PO           5         25                                               2        50        2        50                 I'll      150         --         -
Orereeers                           3~~~ ~~~~ 2          11935                                                                                  3        3         136         . 
Ouhtotni Salerina                                                           ~    ~ ~~~        ~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~~~3 91  12 13   U 03  1.7   --        --
Trmrsl, Ocring                                                                                  3        ~        ~         ~         ~ ~ ~~~            ~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9  0  27  00  26
Suhiole Sning Coate                                                                                                            20                266                :166       557        60         336
PrintIng, Oatnir...Y, Oiher SupplIes                                                                                            38               166                168        334         6o        soS
Poole  d. P-roia-le                                                                                                              I                  1                  1         3         140 
Otter EuP .ee. nod Cnelct-o-                         .3                                                                                             8                 8         13         30           6
Suhita.l Other Eirdet -ii6r4                                                                                                                         614.    1305           48.60
Suhcta I                                                                                                       188                80680                      1736          '35        63
F.  CANE0 TROSPOB? 00ECI0
Oolpere...                                      33          0         61                                               1         1.1      1        61        1        61        423         --        -
0--aeee9                                                   2         U                                                                   3         99       3         39       136         --         -
oeadm.n                            1~    ~     ~    ~ ~~~~4  1  5                                                           12        60                 60 A      120         -          -
ornraV                                     7           2         3                                                                186                180lo      920     1,802          .         -
T-ortnys5                                       4           1         5                                                                 0        170       36       10         36         -          -
SutotalOlace                                                                                                    41     H3 .7               5        .7        ,6            -         -
Other Oependiiure
Te-rl, l*vlng                                                                                                                                       9                  3        27         50          11.
cabirln boning Coate                                                                                                                             14.8               14.8       330        60         198
PrOnti.g, Otati-yei   Other Suplies                                                                                             30                 850               85        203         40          Bi
eons na  Peridiral.                                                                                                              1                  1                  1         3         30           1
OtJssr*Mose.. s-d Cuni-ati...                                                                                                             7                  7                  21         22          14
O.  is  CZlA          - isTis  i'NeRo M
Pqoipsaml  Otilisd                       we  coo    nPr Oa  Unit  One.            R..   Aont
med ona  18015   IPU lTrator 0. 3                3.33   Sin   236.146        50         12                                                                                    12        6o
i-0i5O  HP Crale  Tarn                0.3        3.33    four   80.82        5.         k.                                                                                     6        60
&AnU1 8,B0,D 2 12  1                                                   1,381              2,604              2,965              5,546              5,507   10,223           26      6,666
TOtM                                                                    1,573             3.215              3.951              8.041              8.766   2n.m             66      6,6R6
T. he raetttd iaMoIJI.Uy
isltesepteseimgta     ar  i=on Ad inibima 5 erg 10.
hr ralcolni. nf tdPie    rVaqi.t.at              n A-ao    Sm,    l 1W.2
D-rmbha 30, 1976



AiM 15
%=A
SO=TH NYMZAIUU2    PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
NUCLEOS ESTATE 1VO 5C-ATAL COOTS j/
(EBbs. '000)
Year I          Year 2           Yar 3            Year 4           Year S                   Foreign Exchange
Unit Coat     No.  Aeont   No. Amount           No.  Aount    No.  Aunt    X0.  Amount             TOTAL       T      Amount
A. LAND COMPENSATION
3,400 ha Gross Area                                      2.941            10,000                                                                        10.000        --       --
Subtotal A                                                  10,000                                                                         10,000       --        --
B. MAGDENT AND ADMTIISTRATION J
Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive, 8hort Base                            81                                              1      81                                           81        60        49
Four-Wheel Drive, Long Base                           .100             1     100                                         1     100                         200        60       120
Motorcycles                                              7             1       7       3       21       4      28        4      28                          84        60        50
Corpany Care                                            45            1      15                                                                             45        80        36
Bubtotal B                                                     i.5B              21              109              12                          610       6-2       255
C. IAND PREPARATION AND MABNTSEANCC
Vehicles and E:ui-lent
120/50 HP Creoier Tractor With Hydraulic
Bulido-er and Bipper 3/                              843            2   1,686        6   5,058                                                         6,744        90     6,070
60/70 HP Crawler Tractor With Tool Bar,
Ridging Podies, Sub Soiler, Disc Badder.             473            1      473                                                                           473        90       426
65/90 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor                      153             1     153       1      153                                                          306        90       275
120/150 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor 5/                 383            1      383       1    .383                                                           766        90       689
RaBse Blade, Stinger Blade snd Dhear Blade             266            2      532       1      266                                                          798        90       718
Chain for Clearing Push                                383             2     766       1      383                                                        1,149        90     1,034
Heavy Duty Harrow Plough                               314             1     314       1      314                                                          628        90        565
Tillage Harrow                                         498             1     498       1      498                                                          996        90       896
Hydraulic Mounted Disc Plough                           16             1      16       2       32                                                            48       90         43
Hydraulic Mounted Tool Bar                               5             1       5       2       10                                                            15       90         14
Hydraulic Mounted Diar Barrow                           16             1      15       2       31                                                            46       go         41
Bidging Bodies Mounted on Tool Bar                       4             1       4       2        8                                                            12       90         11
Disc Bdders                                             46             1      46       2       92                                                           138       90        124
Spring Tine Cultivatos                                  13                             1       13                                                            13       90         12
Disc Bedders                                            13                             1       13                                                            13       90         12
Low Bed Trailer. 8 Wheels                              415             1     415                                                                           415        90        373
Lorries, 7t Capacity                                   168            1      168       1       168                                                         336        6o       202
45/50 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor With Draw
Bar, P.T.O. Shaft                                     78                             1       78                                                           78        90        70
Self-Loading Trailers, 3t Capacity                      42                             1      42                                                            42                  32
Subtotal C                                                   5                7,542                                                        13,016              11,607
D.  CANE TRANSPORT AND HARVESTING
Vehicles and Eqoipoent
Lorries, 7t Capacity                                   168                                                               1     168        1     168        336        60       20O
Tankers, 1,900 1 Mounted on Azle Trolley                27                                                               2      54        2      54        108        60        65
45/50 HP Four-Wheel Drive Traitor With
Draw Bar, P.T.O. Shaft                                78                                                               7     546                         546        90       491
Self-Loading Trailer, 3t Capacity                       42                                                               7     294                         294        75       221
65/go iP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor With
Special Broad Tires., Suitable Axle,
Transfer Hitch                                       163                                                               9   1,467                       1,467        90     1,320
Bilo Trailer, 8t Capacity, With Soitable
A.xle, Standard Tires, Suitable Braking Systen        58                                                              18   1,044                       1,044        60       626
65/90 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor, With
Loughton Winch                                       219                                                               2     438                         438        90       394
Flex-Boon Loader, Wheel Type, With Front Piler         423                                                               4   1,692                       1,692        90     1,523
Subtotal 1                                                                                                     5,703              222      5,925        82     4,842
Subtotal A,B,C,D                                            15,626            7,563              109           5,831              222     29,351        57    16,704
Physic.l Contingencies, 108                                          563              756               11               5               22       1,935       86      1.670
Subtotal                                                    16,189            8,319              100           6,414              244     31,2c3        59    1B,374
Price Contingencies                                                  486             B32               23            1.796              90       3.227       59      1,894
TOTAL                                                       16,675            9,151              143           8,210              334      34,513       59    20,268
i/ Excluding drainage, which is shown in Table 11.
/  Refers to Nucleus Estates Division of the Agricultural Departsent.
3/ Two units to be sold each in Yeare 4 and 5, see Annex 20, Table
Too units to be s,ld in fear 5; see Annex 20, Table
Excluding land conpensation.
Seo  Appendix  1: incloding land conspensation.
Septesber 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYAPZ8UGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
NUCLEUS ESTATE DEVELOPNMYT - RECURRENT NON-VARIABLE COSTS i/
(KShs. '000)
Unit Cost
Yearly                           Year 1           Year 2           Year3            Year 4           Year 5                     Foreign Exchange
Salaries  Benefits  Total    No.  Amount   No.  Amount    No.           ount    No.  Amount    No.  Amount         TOTAL            ,     Amount
A. MANAGEMENT AND ADMTNISTRATION  J
Salaries 3/
Manager 3                                100        70       170       1     170        1     170        1     170        1     170        1     170         850         70        595
Supervisors                               32         8       40        1      40        1      40        2      80       3      120        3     120         400         --        --
Overseers                                  8         2        10       1      '10       4      40        8      80       12     120       12     120         370          --       --
Headmen                                    4         1         5                        6      30       11      55       16      80       16      80         245          --       --
Subtotal Salaries                                        3      220      12     280       22     385       32     490       32      490      1,865          32       595
Other Expenditures
Travel, Moving                                                                 10              10               12               14               14          60          50        30
Vehicle Running Costs                                                         80              130              220              310              310       1,050          60       630
Printing, Stationery, Other Supplies                                          15               20               25               33               33         126          40        50
Books and Periodicals                                                           1               1                1                1                1           5          30         2
Other Expenses and Communications                                              1                1                1                1                1           5         20          1
Uniforms, Tools, Equipment                                                     5                5               10               15               15          50          30        1
Subtotal Other Expenditures                                     112              167             269              374               374      1,296          42        720
Subtotal A                                                      332              447             654              864              864       3,161          42      1,323
B. LAND CLEARING
Work Performance  Ulnit Cost
Hectares  Hours          Value
per Hour  per Ha  tJnit  KShs.  Ha                Ha               Ha               Ha               Ha
Chain Felling 2/                       0.3       3.33   Hour  234.46   85        66     915     714      900     703      700     546                        2,029          60     1,217
Piling  0/ 0.3                                   3.33   Hour   80.80   85        23     915     246      900     242      700     188                          699          60        420
Subtotal B                                                       89              960             945              734                        2,728          60      1,637
Subtotal A,B                                                    421           1,4o7            1,599            1,598               864      5,889          50      2,960
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                 42             141              160              160               86         .82          50       296
Subtotal                                                        463            1,548            1,759           1,758               950      6,478          50      3,256
Price Contingences T/                                                       14             155              334              492              352       1,347          50        677
TOTAL                                                           477            1,703           2,093            2,250             1,302      7,825          50    3,933
/ Excluding drainage, which is shown in Table 11.
2/  Refers to Nucleus Estate Division of the Agricultural Department.
3/  The cost of laborers is included in Table 7.
3/ To be recruited internationally.                                                                                                                                                      m
Equipment utilized-  two 120/150 HP crawler tractors, and one 120/150 HP wheel tractor.
J   Equipment utilized:  one 120/150 HP crawler tractor.
2/ See Appendix 1.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 13
NIUCtflU2 I2TAT3    E        -0O     -   VAIA=1 COOrS
cost Pa.
limit                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign Sohoge
Eouiome.nt Util.ized        Work Parrormoce             unit        Z1..)   Yer1         Year 2    Year 3    Year 4+   Year S    TOTAL            %      dAo,t
A. MOTHER8 14128!Y
Planting Are. (h.)                                                                                                    (3o)       (so)       (50)       (50)      (50)
Heetawes per   Howre per
rnireaaIon                                                 Hour         Hactara
V2ORP -mtn                     320/1.50 HP Crawl.r Tractor        0.4         _27.r0_   Hour            80.80         10         3.0        10         10        10        50         60         30
Ploughing                    120/1.30 HP Coo.ler TrActor         0.3           3.33     Hour           80.80         13         13         13         13        13        65         60         39
Harrowing (twice)            120/150 HP Crawler Tra.ctor         0.7           2.86     Hour           80.80         12         32         12         12        10        60         60         36
Furrowing                    60/70 HF Crav~lar Tractor           0.8           1.23     Hour           734.00oo                                                  5        2          60        15
Subtotal                                               ~4                                                         4          4          4                   0           O        1200
Pianti pI2R!at4900
Seed C_  1                                 ~~~~~~~~7 t4/ha               t             112.50         39                                                   39         3+0        16
H:et Tr.atoent                                             7 tnf me.d/ha                44             13.73          5          5          5          5         5        25         20          5
,ed Trnopnrt                 Iorrie., 7t oapaeity          5 k. trip/he,                hm              2 70          1          1         1          1          1         5        50          2
Planting                                                   15 mandapa/ha                Daily wage      8.53          6          6         6          6          6        30                  -
nOpirg                                                    5  -admo'e/ha                Daily wage      8.53          2          2         2          2          2        10                  -
S.hitol53t4                                                                                                                 1414                 144      109         01        03
nltwOe.)              65/90 HP Wheel Tractor        0.8 ha/ho-   2.50 hour/h.  Hcn4r            63.60          8          8          8         2          8        40         60        24
Wt'eeding (6 timeo(2                                 90 mandays/ha                Daily wage      8.55         38         3          8         3           8       190        --
Subt.tal.1                                                                                                         6          6         36        4        230 ~    1              4
'1ert1licor-
C. A I.                                                    100 kg/ha                    50 kg          97.10         10         10         00         10        10        50         30         40
SinPgle Superphoephate                                     300 kg/ha                    50 kg          67.00         20         20        20         20         20       100        So         8s
Applilcatni                                                2 mndn+ay./ha                Daily  -age     8.55          1          1          1          1         1         5         --        --
Iranoport             ln~~~~Irnleo, 7 t Capacity    5 km trip/15 ha              k.              2.70                                                     1        0  1-
Subt.tal                                                                                               31         31         31         31        32       1564        77        120)
7anc Cutter. 3/                                            0.75 t cane/oanlay           Daily eage      9.70         50         50        50         50         50      050          --       -
TrnhtohI,g                                                 3mandoy./ha                  Dailywag        8.55          1          1         1          1          1         5        --         -
04b10t.1                                                                                               51         51         51        51        -51       055         --       -
S.bitatl1A                                                                                            021        182        082       182        183       959         30       033
Pinunlng Area (ha)                                                                                                    (85)       (85)       (70)
He-taree per,  Hour. per
IanS Prepmrtion                                                  Hour         Hectae
Sinning              ~~~~~~1-20/150 HP Craler Tractor      3j7         2.50      Hour           80.80         17        17         134                            48         6o         09
Ploughteg                    1202/30 HP C-a,ie  Tractor          0.3           3.33     001,           80.80         23         23         19                             65         60         39
Hnrocing Ttl&                100/150 HP Crawler Tractor         0.7           2.86      Hour           80.80         20         20         16                             56         60        33
?rrooclg                     60/70 HP Trwler Tractor             0.8           1.25     Hour           734.00o                             7                             23         6o         13+
Subtota1                                                                                               690       44          612                                        0        115
fl1p&ti  neati...
Seed Ca-    f7 t/ha                                                                     t             110.50         67                                                   67         3+o       27
Seed Tret   t7 t of ... d/ha                                                            1              13.73          8          8         7                              23         20          4
S;eed Tr-n.Pr                L-rrie, 7 t Capacity          5 Sn trip/ha                 kn              0.70          1          1          1                              3         50         2
Plocttng                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~15 mndayo/ha  Dally wage  8.55  11-    11          9                             31          -       -
loPPIng      Sbt15 anaodyn/ha                                                           Daily  mag      8.55          + 4       34         3                             11          -       -
Subtotal                                                                    ~~~        ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                        ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~91  244  00  135  244 3
Fielft Maintenanc
t1illing  It"',")65/90 HP Wheel T-ator                     0.8 ha/hour  2.50 hour/h.  HloOr            63.60         23+        14         11                             39         60         03
Inol WedIng (6 t3.aeo(1/                                90 osooyn/ha                 Daily wage      8.53         6         65         54                            184         -- .. .....
Snt.t.1a                                                                                               79         79         65                            023         10         23
Fertilizers
',A,'. S rPapte100 kg/ha                                                                50 kg          97.10         17         17         14                            348         Bo         38
CingicOprnhoht                                             300 kg/ha                    50 kg          67.00         34+        34+        18                             96        90         77
Application                                                2 mandays/ha                 Daily wag       8.55          2          0          15                                       --       -
TrO40Port                    L.-rrie, 7 44 Capacity        5 Sn triP/i5 ha              Sn              2.011                                                                        -       -
S,+ht.t.l                                                                                              53         53         454                           350       -77         115
Ha'-sctingI
ca.e Cuttero 3/                                            0.75 t cane/manday           Daily wa        9.70         85         85         70            .                40         --        --
0000   ahing     tt                                        3  -danOa/h.                 Daily wag       8.55          2          2         0                               6                  -
Onhictal                                                                     8~ ~ ~~~             ~~~~~~~~                                  ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 87  70  2444  -
fuhItatl12                                                                                            378        311        257                            94+6        30        286
C. PLANT CROP ~/
Lja~~~~~~~~~~) ~~Hector.. per   Houro per                                                                         80        (30       (70
Land P-Prec ti.n                                                 flour         Hector.
Rippiog8                     120/1.50 HP CraWler Tractor                   _  2.50      H01            80.80                   168        168        13+1                477         60        286
Pcovghing                    120/150 HP Crawler Tractor          0.3           3.33     8012r          80.80                   003        023        188                 634         60        380
Haroculog (ticde)             120/150 HP Crawler TraCtor         0.7           0.86     floor          80.80                   192        190        162        ~         36         60        309
P-r-rong                     60/70 HP Crawler Trator             0.8           1.05     flor           734.oo                   77         77        65                 219         60        13
Onhtotal                                                                       660        44440     ~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~556  1.876   40 114
OeeO Cane7 t of  :aed/h. I/
Chraical Treatent                                          7 t Of  acd/h.               t              19.56                   114        113         96                 3024        340        3
S.e dTronoport               45/50 HP2 Self-loading13
Trailer, 3 t4 Capacity      0.8 km/hour  1.23 hour/ha  floor            66.13                    69         69         58                 196         60        118
planting                                                    is naaaye/9a                 Daily wage      8.55                  106        106         90                 300          -        -
lappi.g                                                    5 eandap/ha                  Daily wag        8.55                              35         3                   0
S.htotal                                                                                                         30A        324       2744                100          27       -2-
Field Maintenane
Hilling (twice)               65/90 HP Wihe1 Tractor        0.8 ha/hour  2.50 hour/ha  H.oo             63.60                  132        130        111                 375         60        005
'danoal Weeding (6 tineo)Z/                                 90  -dadya/ha                Daily wage      8.55                  639       63         53                 1,817        --         -
Onitotal                                                                                                         771        7371       4450              2,190         10        005
Fertiiziers
C.A.N.                                                      100 kg/ha                    50 kg          97.10                  161        161        136                 4+58        80        366
Single Snperphcophate                                       300 kg/ha                   50 kg          67.00                   334        334+       081                 949         80        759
Appli-nti-o                                                 0 mWays'/h.                  Daily wage      8.55                   14         13+        10                  10         --        -
TracoPort     uttl            lorrie., 7 t Capacity        5 k. trip/i5 ha              ka               2.70                    1          1         1                   3         50          _
Oohtotai                                                                            ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~      ~       ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~510  510  4430  1,450  70  ,14
Onhtctai C                                                                                                     2,265      2,065      1,910               6,344o        4+3     0,725



AM=I 13
SUOTH NYANZA    SAR FROJWCT
PPRWrT COSTS
NUCLDUS ESTATE DOE29     t-J} l fT VARIAPE COSTS
Co.t r,a
unit                                                                   Freign E-change
Equipzent Tltilized          Work Perfocasc.           Unit        (Ui.t)   Year 1    Yer 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    TOTAL             6     A.ouno
D.   st P_ATOON CROP
Ratooning Area (h.)                                                                                                            (85)      (85)      (985)     (915)
Field maint-nance
Manual Weeding (6 tie-.)?J                                90 zsuAdaoY/ha               Daily -ae      8.55                    65        65        758       704    1,592         -
Fertilizers
C.A.N.                                                    200 kg/bh                   50 kg          97.10                    33        33        383       355      804        80        643
Single ic perphpoate                                      300 kg/ha                   50 kg          67.00                   34         34       396        368      832        80        666
Application                                               2  &.assd/h&                Daily Wag       8.55                     2         2         17        16        37       --         -
Tr-nsport                    Lorries, 7 t Capacity        5 k. trip/I5 ha              kz             2.70                                          1         1         2       60           1
E. 2ed RaTOON CROP 4/
SatocenAp  Areb (ha)                                                                                                                                         (415)
Field Maintenance
MNasml Weeding (6 ti-eo)3/                                90 aanday./As                Daily sage     8.55                                                  319       319       --         --
Fertilizers
C.A N                                                     400 kg/ha                   50 kg          97.10                                                  322       322       80         258
Singli aonpephophat.                                      300 kg/he                   50 kg          67 00                                                  167      167        80         134
Applicattio-                                              0 saaday/ha                  Daily wage     8.55                                                    7         7       --         -
Transport                    Lorries, 7 t Capacity        5 ka trip/15 ha   -         ks              2,70                                                    1         1       --      --
S,btotal                                                                                                                                      497        497      79         392
Subtotal E                                                                                                                                    816        816      79         390
F.  UARVESTING |
Coo- tc be Har-ested ('000 t                                                                                                                       (114)     (163)
harvesting
ManonO Cutting                                            25 t of care/nday           Daily nags      9,70                                       440        632    i0.74        __        __
Subtotl F                                                                                                                           4410      632    1,1074
C. CANE TEANSPORT
Tr.n.port Reouiroenet (000 t)  /                                                                                                                   (114)     (163)
Field to Tranicoading          45/50 HP Wheel ractor and
_______ g                     Self-Loading Trailer,
3 t Capacity                6 tnhor                     Hour           66.13                                       628        899    1,527        60        916
F1ld And Tra-AloWdi.g          65/90 hP Wheel Tractor
Station to Factory            end "Hil' " Triler,
8   Capeoity                9.3 t/ hour                 Hoer           72.87                                       893      1,277    2,170        60      1,302
Fle-Boo. Loader, Wheel
Tye                         22.5 t/hoer                 Hoer           64.55                                       327        467      794        60        476
Tractor Helpe.,                65/90 hP Wheel Trackt
With Booghton Winch         (25% of "Hil0" work tiOe) H0ur             64.oo                                                  280      476        60        286
Shbtotal G                                                                                                                        2,0A      2,923    4,9b7        60       2,9hO
nbhtotal A,B0C,D,E,F,G                                                                              599     2,892      2,838      6,133     5,998   18,460        43       7,980
Physical Conting-ecie-, 10%                                                                                 60        089       084        613        600    1,846       43         798
subtohAl                                                                                            h59      3,181     3,120      6746      6,590   20,306        43       8,778
rice Co-tingenci-s L/                                                                                        38       430       774      2,319     3,101    6,662        43       2,880
TOTAL                                                                                               697      3,601     3,896      9,065    9,699    26,968        43      11,658
-eed cane for Year 1 to be supplied by National Sugar R-searcb Institute, Kibos.
2/  Foleolntod on banlo of 15 ondays per  eedig.
I Caleated on basis of yield of 77t/ha of need cane.
or planting and harvesting Schedols see Annex  7, Table  1 and 2.
5/ Fer ealcelation of transport require-ento .ee A-.n. 8, Table 1.
6J  A1-0ing teanol1ading nf 50% of production, and t.ansporting of 50% directly fros field to factory.
c,  Cee Appe-dic 1.
Sept-bher 30, 1976



ANNEX 15
KDYA
soist NYANZA 510554 PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
OtTOROWNR8 DEVELOPMIN W -CAPITAL COSTS
(EBhs. '00)
Year 1          Year 2           year 3           Year 4           Year 5                   Foreign Exchange
lUmit Cost    No.  !Auniot    No.   AMut    No.  Amiot   No.  Amount    No.  Amount                TOCAL        S     Amount
A.  MANAGEMBNT AND ADMINISTRATION 1/
Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive, Short Base                            81                                              1       8i                        1      81         162       60         97
Four-Whael Drive, Long Base                            100             1     100                                         1     100                          200       A0        120
Motorcycles                                              7                              2      14       2                                          44  2  i4  2  i4  56  6A      34
Company Cars S45                                                              45                                                                                      So 45  8   36
Subtotal A                                                     145               lb               95              114               95         463       62       287
B. LAND PREPARATION AND -MAINTENANCE
Vehicles and Equipen,t
120/       Crawler Tractor With Hydraulic
Bulldozer and Ripper                                 843             1     843                                                                            843       90        750
120/650 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tr ctor and Sipper         383             1     383       6   2,298                         1      383       2     766       3,830       90      3,447
65/90 hP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor                      153             1     153        3     459                                         1      153        765        90       689
Hydraulic Disc Plupg                                    15             1      15        2      30                        1       15       2       30         90        90        8i
Tool Bar and Ridging Bodies                              9             1   .   9        2      18                        1        9       2       18         54        90        49
Spring Time Cultivators                                  6             1       6       2       12                        1       6        2      12          36       90         32
Disc Bedders                                             6             1       6       2       12                        1        6       2       12         36        90        32
Sub Soiler, Standard With Beet Wings                    13             1      13       5       65                        2      26        1      13         117       90        105
Low-Bed Trailer, 8 Wheels                              415             1     415                                                                            415       90        374
Lorries, 7 t Capacity                                  168             1     168        1     168                                                           336       6o        SC?
45/50 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor With
Draw Bar, P.T.O. Shaft                                78                             1       78       1       78                                          156       90        ;4Q
Self-Loading Trailers, 3 t Capacity                     42                             1       42       1       42                                          864       7         63
Subtotal B                                                   2,1              3,182              1.20            4445            1,004      6,762        38 5,973
C. CANE TRANSPORT AND HARVEBTING
Vehicles and Equipment
Lorries, 7 t Capacity                                  168                                                               1     168        1     i68         336       6o        202
Tankers, 1,900 1 Mounted on Axle Trolley                27                                                               2       54       2      54         108        6o        65
45/5o HP Four-Wheel Drive, With Draw Bar,
P.T0O. Shaft                                          78                                                               9     702                          702       90        632
Self-Loading Trailer, 3 t Capacity                      42                                                               9      378                         378       75        284
65/90 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor, With
Special Broad Tires, Suitable Axle, Transfer Hitch 163                                                                11   1,793                        1,793       90      1,614
Hlilo Trailer, 8t Capacity, With Suitable Axle,
Standard Tires, Suitable Braking System               58                                                              22   1,276                        1,276       A0        766
65/90 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tractor, With
H,ughton Winch                                       219                                                               4     876                          876       90        78
PIeS-Boon Loader, Wheel-Type, With Front Piler         423                                                              24  8,796                         1,692       90      1,323
Subtotal C                                                                                                      6,939             222       7,161        82     5,574
Subtotal A,B,C                                               2,156            3,196              215            7,498            1,321     14,386        84    12,134
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                           216             320               21              750              132      1,439        84     1,213
Subtotal                                                     2,372            3,516              236            8,248            1,453     13 825        84    13,347
Price Contingencies |/                                                 71             352               45            2,309              538      3,315        84     2,796
TOTAL                                                        2,443            3,868              281           10,557            1,991     19,140        84    16,143
1/ Refers to outgro-ers Division of the Agricultural Department.
2/  See Appendix 1.
September 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
OUTGROWERS DEVELOPMENT - RFCURRENT NON-VARIABLE COSTS
(KShs. '000)
t'nit Cost
Yearly                            Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                   Foreign Exchange
Salaries  Benefits  Total    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.  Amount           No.  Amount       TOTAL        %      Amount
A.  MANAGEMENT AND ADMTNTISTRATION l
Salaries %/
Manager                                   75         52       128       1      128       1      128       1      128       1      128        1     128         64o                  --
Supervisor                                32          8       40        1      40        1       4o               80       3      120        4     160         44o                 --
Overseers                                   8         2        10                        2       20        4      4o        6      60        8       80        200
Headmen                                     4         1         5                        2       10        4      20        6      30        8      40         ioo
Subtotal Salaries                                         2      168       6      198      11      268       16     338       21     408       1,380
Other Expenditures
Travel, Moving                                                                  10               10               10               10                10         50        --        --
Vehicle Running Costs                                                          186              228              316              351              386       1,467        60        880
Printing, Stationery, Other Supplies                                            24               48               68               98              108         346        4o        138
Books and Periodicals                                                            1                1                1                1                 1          5        30          2
Other Expenses and Communications                                                5                5                5                5                 5         25        20          5
Uniforms, Tools, Equipment                                                       5                8               11               16               21          61        30         18
Subtotal Other Expenditures                                      231              300              411              481               531      1,954        53      1,043
Subtotal A                                                       399              498              679              819              939       3,334        31      1,043
B.  SOIL SURVEY                                                                      600              --               --                --               --          600        --       --
0.  LAN]D CLEARING - NURSERIES 2
Work Performance   Unit Cost
Hectares  Hours          Value
per Hour  per Ha  Unit  KShs.   Ha                 Ha               Na               Ha               Ha
Chain Felling 4/                         0.3      3.33   Hour  234.46  150        35      150      35      150      35      200      47      200       47         199       6o        119
Piling j/                                0.3      3.33   Hour   80.80  150        12     150       12      150      12      200      16      200       16         68        60         41
Subtotal B                                                        47               47               47               63                63        267        6o        160
Subtotal A,B, C                                               1,046               545              726              882            1,002       4,201        29      1,203
Physical Contingencies, 10                                                105                55               73               88              100         421        29        120
Subtotal                                                      1,151               600              799              970            1,102       4,622        29      1,323
Price Contingencies 6J                                                       39               60              152              272              408         931        33        303
TOTAL                                                          1,190              660              951            1,242             1,510      5,553        29      1,626
Refers to Outgrowers Division of Agricultural Department.
2/ The cost of laborers is included in Table 10.
3 Land clearing other than for nurseries would be done manually by outgrowers.
,/  Equipment utilized:  two 12C/150 HP crawler tractors and one 120/150 HP wheeler tractor.
5   Equipment utilized:  one 120/150 HP crawler tractor.                                                                                                                                 H>
j   See Appendix 1.
December 30, 1976



A1 r
P    1 of 2
01M    Mzj E     VARIA  COO"S
Cost Dor
unit                                                                    ?ooeig. lbwh.ge
hoI~  U"t$llsed            Hoot Perfoiuee              Unit       (KAle.)   YeW  1   lear 2    Year 3    Ye., 4   Yer 5    TOTAL    F               Arcohnt
A. 1Y2SERIES
Plarting Area (he)                                                                                              (150)     (150)     (150)      (200)     (200)
Het.. per  Bawl per
tand Precarttop                                                Boor            _ 
siping.mgmt                 120/150 lip Ibld Trator          0.4           2.0 aOw                72.86         27        27        27         36        36      153         60         92
Ploughing                   120/150 BPE w1T. S0tr             0.3          3.33     HouW           72.86        36        36        36         48        48      204          60       122
HeZ'oviog (itwie)           120/150 BP libel  otor            0o7          2.86    HBur            72.86        31        31         31        41        41      175          60       105
Furr.viog                   65/9gBpo Rel'water                0.8          1.25     Bor           63,6           a 12               12        16         16       68 60 41
Subtotal                                                                                          1X        lOb       106       i14        146      600         60        340
Beta  Cam,Y                                             7 Om/                       ba           132.50      .1a8                                                18           40        47
Het freat_..                                             7 t of e/bha               ha             13.73.       15        15         15        19        19       83          20        17
Seed Tr nsport              LorrIes, 7 t copecity       20 la trip/ha               ha        2.             -   3       -5!         3      -  W          4       17         50          9
Plrntirg                                                 15 FemdarmAh               Daily Wg        8.55        19        19         19        26        26      109log
Sapping                                                 5 mauAmrs/         h         a D%w  W      8.55          6         6         6              9   R_
Onbiotal                                                                                         161        '43       '43        58        53       363         20        73
Field M4ioto  nce
Hillng 7to,ino)             65/g9  HP Wee Tsctor         0.8 he/hor 2.50 hourJ/  HOvr              63.60        24        24         24        32        32      136          60        82
Manuel Woeding (6 time.)J                               90 ,aaoWs/                  Daily mwg       8.55        15       115       11 5                          653 
S.btOt.1                                                                                          139       139       139       116 186             789         10        80
Fertil1izeo
C A.N.                                                  300 kg/bA                   50 kg          97.10        29        29        29         39        39      .65          80       132
Single lu2orphnospbto                                   300 kg/h.                   50 kg         67.00         60        60        60         80        80      340          80       272
Applic-ti-n                                             2 Oandays/hS                Daily wage      8.55         3         3          3         4         4       17         --        --
T-enop-nt                   lorri o , 7 t Cepscity     20 1m trip/15 ba            kmo             2.70         1         1         1          1         I        5         50          3
Subtotdi                                                                                           93        93        93       124       121       527         77        407
VEICutters 3/                                            0.75 t ocj/_yoft           Daily Wae      9.70        149       149       149        199       199      845          --       --
Traci Raking                      .                     3 yasdeo/ba                 Dkily wvge     8.55          4         4         4                  A         22
S2 b,oth 1                                                                                       153        153       153                -20        807                   --
Onbtotal A                                                                                       652        534       534       713       713    3,146          38      1,194
B. PLANT CROP Y
Plontig Area (bh)                                                                                                      (1,350)   (1,350)   (1,500)   (2,000)
dectares per    ours pewr
_nd,0 Prepewatln                                             BHour         Hec0te
Nipping                     120/150 HP Wheel Traotor          0     '               Hour           72.86                 246       246        273       364    1,129          60       677
Plooghing                   320/150 HP Wheel Trptor           0.3          3.33     Boor          72.86                  328       328        364       485    1,505          6o       903
io,-owlng (0oice)           120/150 HP   e  Trator            0.7          2.86      22 _           ,86                  281       281        313       417    1,292          60       775
FcrrolrSng                  65/90 HP Wheel Tratr              0.8          1. 25    Hou,r          63.60         7I               1C7       119       1S9       492          60       296
Sub4to l                                                                                           =         62       962     3,069      1,425    4,418         60     2,651
Pl5uting Oooratdns
Seed 366e1 3,{7 t of :edla                                                          1.
Oihelcic  Trest=ent                                     7 t of  ed/h                ha            19.56                  185       185        205       274      849          40       340
Seed Tr-nport               45/50 HP  .el-loading
Trailer, 3 t Capacity      0.4 ba/bour 2.5 hour/ha  HBor             66.13                  223       223       248        331    1,225         60        615
P.nping 5                                               15 esmdeys/ba
Fppiegd      2.,tttoth                                                                                                   4O       4C8        453       605    1,874          51       955
Field Naintononce
2l3ling (tWice)             65/90 HP Wheel Tractor       0.8 ha/hour 2.50 hour/ba  Hour            63.60                 215       215       -239       318      987          60       592
Manubt wooding (6 time-)2                                90 eaoWs/ha                                                                                                                   592
Fritotaz                                                                                                    215       215       239        318      987         60        592
Feniildooro
C. A .                                                   100 kg/h                   50kg           97.10                 262       262        291       388    1,203          80       961
Single SUperph.0phate                                    300 kg/ha                  50 kg         67.00                  543       543        603       804    2,493          80      ,994
Appliestion 5/                                           2                                                               5ays/h
Trospoprt   LSorbte, 7 t Capaity                         20 km trip/15 ha           ke              2.70                             5                    7       22                    11
S.btot.l 22,395                                                                                                     2,395     2,660      32567   1,99)           65     7,166
C.  It 40ATOONI CPOP  2/
iatonMing Are.                                                                                                            (150)      (150)   (1,650)   (1,700)
Field Madnteoance
M,n-al eIeding (6 tiooo(2/                               90 *eodsye/h,
Fertilizers
CAN.                                                     200 kg/ he                 50 kg          97.10                  58        58        641       66o    1,417          80     1,134
Singl  Oupprphosphebo                                  300 kg/ha                   50 kg         67.Oo                   60        60        663       683    1,466          90     1,173
Applicsti_o 53                                           2  a.daoo/h.
Tr-nopcwt    Slbttal C       -orrIes, 7 t Capacity      20 k1 trip/15 he           kb               2.70                   1         1i         6         6       14         60          8
Subtotal                                                                        ~~~~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~119  119  1,310  1,3149    2,8E9-7  9  231



AJ8Dt 15
Table 2.0
Paeg 2 of 2
KEN3YA
SCTN ?JTACGAN PRJWI
Cost per
Unit                                                                   cFreign Exchange
Equipment Utilied           Waft Perfornce             Unit        (xSno     )  yer 1   Year 2    Yar 3    Year 4    Year   5  TOTAL          %     AMount
.  2rd RATOOTN
Ratooning Area (ha)                                                                                                                                       (675)
Field Maintenance
Manual Weeding (6 tisee)2/                               90 rnadayo/ha
Fertilioere
C.AtilizerN                                              400 kg/ha                  50 kg          97.10                                                 524      524         Bo       419
Single Superphoephste                                    300 kg/ha                  50 kg          67.00                                                271       271         80       217
Application 2/                                           2 afndays/ha
Transport                   Lorries, 7 t Capecity        20 bo trip/15 ha            kn             2.70                                                   2        2                   I
Subtotal D                                                                                                                                 797      797          Ml       437
E~ HARVESTING i
Cane to be RErveated ('00o   t                                                                                                                  (132)     (188)
HIoreting
Manual Cutting                                           1.25 t of cane/s..day       Daily wge                                              1,024      1,459    2,483         __        __
Trash  Poking   2/                                       12.5   t    of    sane/nanday                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Cuhtotal F                                                                                                                     1,024     1,459    2,483          --       --
F. CANE TRANSPORT
Transport Reuuireaent ('000 tV)                                                                                                                 (132)     (188)
Field to Tranoloadiog         45/50 HP Wheel Tractor and
Station 7J                   Self-lding Traller, 5 t
per Rour 3 t Capacity                                  Hour          66.13                                       873     1,243    2,li6          60     1,270
Field and Transloadiog        65/90 RF Wheel Trector ead
Station to Factory           "Nils" Trailer, 8 t Capacity,
8.694 t per Hour                                       Sour          72.87                                     1,106     1,575    2,681         6i      1,609
Flex-Poon Loader, Wheel Type
22.5 t per Hour                                        Hour          64.55                                       379       540      919         6i        551
Tractor  Ielpers              65/90 HP Wheel Traotor, With
Roughton Winch (25% of 'ilo"
vbonr tine)                                            Hour          64Woo                                       243       346       589         60       353
Subtotal F                                                                                                                     2,401     3,704    6,305          60     3,783
Subtotal A,B C,D,E,F                                                                              652     3,048      3,048     8,308    11,569   26,625          57    15,093
Phynlotkl Contiogoio,1%65                                                                                            1        305       81        ,157    2.6635Q.0
Suitotal                                                                                          717     3,353       353      9,139    12 724   29,283          57    16602
Prior ContLi genco /                                                                                     31       457        843     3.027     5 691   10.049          57     5,636
TOTAL                                                                                             746     3,810      4,196    12,166    18,417     39,337        57    22,298
Send cane fr- Year 1 to be oupplied by National Sgagr Reserhb Institute, Xibos.
g/ Calculated on baois of 15 isandays per weeding.
3/ Calculated on basis of yields of 77t/ha of seed cane.
] For planpting and harceeting sbcedules see Annec 1, Tables I and 2.
s/ Operatdoos to be perforred by outgrosers not coeted; for lbor reqoirerento see Annex 7, Table6.
2/ For calcolatioo of transport require.eote see Annex 8 , Tablel.
1/ Ac-uing ironolonting of 50  of produotion, nd tronoporntig of 50% directly fro. field to factory.
See Appendix 1.
-oreobhr 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
DRAINAGE 1/
(KShs.'000)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                       Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost      No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount           TOTAL        %       Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles and Equipment
60/70 Crawler Tractor, With Rotary Ditcher           473           1       473                                                                             473       90          426
Mole Drain Attachment                                 65           1        65                                                                              65        90          59
Subtotal                                              538                                                                             538       90          485
Drain Costs 2/
Average    Total      Excavation     Unit Cost
Length    Length        (cum         (KShs. per
Cross Drains     Ha      (m per Ha)   (m)    per m of Length)    cum)
Lowlands     1,000        40      40,000
Uplands      1,650        10      16,500
Uncropped      760         5       3.800
3,410               60,300         1.0          3.5       211                                                                             211        70         148
Main Drains     3,410        12.5    42,625         2.0          3.5       298                                                                             298        70         209
Improvement of Natural Waterways                                           131                                                                             131       40           52
Subtotal                                              640                                                                             640       64          409
Subtotal Capital Costs                              1,178                                                                           1,178        76         894
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                             118                                                                             118       76           89
Subtotal                                            1,296                                                                           1,296        76         983
Price Contingencies 3/                                                   65                                                                              65       76           49
Total                                               1.361                                                                           1.361        76       1.032
B.    RECURRENT COSTS
Unit Cost
(KShs. per Ha)   Ha               Ha               Ha               Ha               Ha
Infield Drains 4/                                    140          135       19    915       128    900       126    700        98                          371        70         260
Clearing of Drains                                    50                        3,410       171  3.410       171  3.410       171  3,410       171         684        60         410
Subtotal Recurrent Costs                               19              299              297              269              171       1,055        64         670
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                               2               30               30               27               17         106        64          67
Subtotal                                               21              329              327              296              188       1,161        64          737
Price Contingencies 3/                                                    1               58              104              143              120         426        64         273
TOTAL                                                  22              387              431              439              308       1,587        64       1,010
1/   For nucleus estate only.
2/ Excludes infield drains, construction costs of which are of a recurrent nature (See footnote 4/).
See Appendix 1.
4/   Considered recurrent costs because drains have to be completely rebuilt every 5 years.
September 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
SUGAR FACTORY - CAPITAL COSTS
(KShs.'OOO)
Year   1        Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5                     Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost      No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount    No.  Amount                 TOTAL        %      Amount
Factory Turnkey Contract i
Foreign Currency Cost Element
F.o.b. Value of Machinery, Equipment, Structure                          46,631           74,159          32,106                                       152,896      100     152,896
F.o.b. Value of Spare Parts                                               1,525            2,425           1,050                                         5,000      100       5,000
Insurance and Freight                                                     3,411            5,425           2,349                                        11,185      100      11,185
Erection, Technical Services                                              9,800           15,584           6,747                                        32,131      100      32,131
Credit Insurance and Finance Charges                                      1 467           2,332            1,010                                         4,809      100       4,80o
Subtotal                                                    62;,83          99,925           43,262                                       206,021     100     206,021
Local Currency Cost Element2/                                              10,934           17,387           7,529                                        35,850       40      14,340
Subtotal Foreign and Local
Currency Cost                                             73,768         117,312           50,791                                       241,871       91     220,361
Customs Duties and Taxes                                                   10,670           16.965           7,345                                        34,980
Subtotal Factory Contract                                   84,438         134,277           58,136                                       276,851      80      ZW.3O
Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive Tractor, 120/150 HP Cane Loader         374                                                             1      374                          374       90         337
Molasses Tankers, 25 t Capacity, Mounted on
Truck Tractor                                         570                                                              3    1,560       1      520       2,080       80       1,664
Company Cars                                             45            4      180       1       45      4      180                                           405       60         243
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Long Base                      100                                            1      100                                           100       60          60
Lorry, 7 t Capacity                                      168                                                             1      168                          168       60         100
Subtotal Vehicles                                              180              45              280           2,102              520        3,127      77        2,404
Furniture and Other Equipment                                                      70               50               95              20               20          255      50          128
Subtotal Furniture/Equipment                                    70              50               95               20              20          255      50          128
Subtotal Capital Costs                                      84,688         134,372           58,511            2,122             540      280,233      80      222,893
Physical Contingencies, 10% 2/                                        25               10              38              212               54          339      75          253
Subtotal                                                    84,713         134,382           58,549            2,334             594      280,572       80     ZZ314T0
Price Contingencies 4                                                609            3,060           2,522            1,027              345       7,563       80        5,948
TOTAL                                                       85,322         137,442           61,071            3,361              939     288,135       80  Z_ZI,O9
2/ For contract details see Annex 9.
2/  Component consisting of locally purchased materials and equipment, and works and services
of local contractors.
3/  Includes vehicles and furniture and office equipment only.
4/ Includes the local currency costs of the factory turnkey contract, vehicles, and furniture
and office equipment; for annual rates see Appendix 1.                                                                                                                           F 
November 30, 1976



yMA
.3011TH NYANZA aGAR PROJECT
swhR YATF Ya           C      T      oaARqECOr
bert-f        SiM4          Bentit  Tetnl   Year I      Ye 2        Yez 3        Y"r 4       Y"r 5        TOTAL       Foe        P Fc tg
A. SAIARIES
eecretsry                        ~      ~     ~~ ~        ~~ ~~~~~1 129  90  219  2219    219         2129        2219         2194       1,095         70       767
A;:J.Jit-rti-e A..it.t-t                     1            33          a       41                                               41          41           82
Aceout. Cl-rk                                1            20          5                                                        25          25           50         --        -
Dr ftorn                                     2            200         5       25                      50          50           50          50          200           ~
Cl rk TYPist                                 6             7          1        8                                  16           48           48         112         --         -
Nbt.tmge                           2-3T1                                          243          293         317          4158        4185       I,t2w4        46        767
Chief ireer  $                   ~     ~     ~~~ ~ ~~~~1 103  7524  1751      88         175         31793        1753         1793        788          70       5522
El.etri-al Enie-ry                           1            77         54      131         66          131         131          131         131          590         70        599
mechari-cal Egi-er /1                                     77         54      131         66          131         131          131         131          590         70        599
g.bt.t. 7nier1                                      5          B        8         2e42         521         9814         9814        9814        378          73     2~,57-5
Shift F-rvn2                                                          18       44                                 132          132         132          396         __        _
Mill -Forma                                  3            392261969                                                                        9           54          7          1
Moilln Fo-en!                                3            39         27       66                                 198          198         198          594         70        416
Pnijing H-s  Rquip-et F.-xa                 12            26         18      4,4                                                          136o 66620  1s9P60        --       --
EAt sIst  E'lecrclFh ive                      1            56         39       95                                  95           95          95          285         70        200
Fel-trice F-reas                             3            26          6       32                      64          96           96          96          352         __        __
Junio  ElZctZici                             3             6          1        7                                  11           21          21           53         --         -
Eleetricit  R.lp-r                           6             4          1        5                                  15           30          30           75         __         _
Turbi'- Att.nd.nt                            3             5          1        6                                   9           18          18           45         --         -
Turbi- Holp-r                                3             4          1        5i                                              15           15          30         __         _
El_etricia  Winde                            1             5          1        6                                   3            6           6           15         __         _
Widr  eper                               1             4          1        5                                                5           5           10         __         _
El ctrician Linea'                           2             5          1        6                                   6           12           12          30          _        _
Li=ea  H.lper                                2             4          1        5                                               10          10           20         --         -
El.ct,i-el St-rk-ep-                         1            12          2       14                                   7           14          14           35         --         -
H.lper                                       1             4          2        5                                               41           5            0          __       _
Telephon  Fore-                              1            33          8       41                                  21           441                     103         -
Tel.phon.  M-b-ni.                           3             5          1        6                                   9           18          18           45         --         -
Telepho.. Line-n                             2             5          1        6                                   6           12          1.2          30          _        _
nstru=ent Ensineer j/                       2             56        39       915                                 190         190          1908        570          70       399
Inst-uet M-ch..ie                           4              5         1        6                                   12          24           24          60          -        --
Subtoal1-T                                                                               64   4 8 0    6          20          620       1,784          34       599
Work.hon, R-pir andMarene
Y n-r/Leth- an                               112                     2        314                                 28           56         3526         140         __         _
Mg  -nlt                                     4            10          2       12                                  24           48          48          120         --         -
Welder                                       4            10          2       W.                                  24           48          48          1-20        --         -
Ti.-it                                       I            10          2       12                                   6           12          12           30                   _
PlacXith                                     I            10          2       12                                   6           1.2         12           30          _        _
H.1p-r                                       2             3          1        4                                   4            8           a           20         __         _
Rep.i, and Mait--ne  F-ren                   1            26          6       32                                  16           32          32           a)         __        _
M-chenic                                     3             6          1        7                       7          14           21          21           63         __         _
Helper                                       3             3          1        4                                   6           12          12           30         - 
Vblder                                       2            10          2       12                                  12           24          24           60          -        -
Help-r                                       2             3          1        4                                   4            8           8           20         --         -
Fitter                                       2             5          1        6                                   6           12          12           30          _        _
Ee lper                                      2             3          1        4                                   4            8           8           20         --         -
Toolkeeper                                   1             5          1        6                                   3            1           6         _15          _
S.bt.t.1                       33                                                         7          173         339          339         F,t          __       _
Aed6.tnt Civil LFnginee                      1            39          9       48         24           48          48           48          48          2316        --         -
Conet-ution F-ftmn                           1            26          6       32                                               32          32           64         __         _
C rp-t-r                                     3             5          1        6                                               18          18           36         __         _
Help-r                                                     3          1        4                                               12           12          24          __        _
Svbtote.l                                                                    24           48          48          110         110          340         --        --
Pro.... ip  DpentE  t
SNp-rInt..d.t I/                             1           103        72       175                      88         175          175         175          613         70        429
A..i.t.nt S.p-ri.t-nd-t i/1                               77         54      131                                  66          131         131          328         70        230
Cl-rtifati-n/E-ap-rt- Fora n                 3            26          6       32                                  43           96          96          240         --        --
Cry.t.lli-ati.. Fnrena  i/                   3            39         27       66                                  99          198         19)8         495         70'       347
CuringRe-triftg.l For-                       3            26          6       32                                  48           96          96          240         __        _
Paggsing Station Fcrra                                    26          6       32                                  448          996         96          240 o ~~
Punp Tender                                 12             4          1        5                                  36a                      60          1           _         _
S.bt.t.1                       29                                                        88          56          98           948       2,546Z         40     1,006
Sup2A ted-nt gy                              1           103         72      175                                  88          175         175          438         70        307
Aeei.tnnt Chdnit 2/                                       56        --7       953                                 143         25           8           711         70  
Subthtal~~~~~~~- 5                                                                             31         46          40          1.151         70       8C
MI-11-pem   =binrie  U                        _                                                                    513          690         539        1"74a          --       -
SDbtot.lA                     148                                           529        1,021       3,898       5,156        5,005      15,609          42     6,585
B   PLANT MAINTEANCE 31
Mkt-i.l. nnd EgiPutwl
MYterials                                                                                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,666  2,866  5,732  70  4,o12
Tool. n-d Equip-e.t                                                                                                            43           43          86          60        52
Insp_oti.. F- e                                                                                                                                          8                     8
Sundry Mnt-rial                                                                                                                55           55          no0         30        33
Subtotnl mat-riel./X ip fnt                                                                                     4 12        4 12S3       82           74      6'069
Oth., Epoeditre
Ymvel Moving, REntert.i-nt                                                                56          66           76         586          586         37L0         __       185
Vehilel Rmning Cort.                                                                      50          Bo           95i         95           95         415          60       249
Pr-inti.g, Stationer, Other Suppli..                                                      10          1D           10          17           17          71          40        28
B.oks knd P-rdodi-al.                                                                      6           8            8           9            9          40          30        12
Oth., E,p ....  nnd C-ni-ti...                                                             5           5           17          27  _        27          81-         20        16
S,btOtal Oth-r Exp.ndit-re                                                  127          169         213          79          79         2,097         23        49-0
9ubtot.1 P                                                                  127          169         213        4,917       4,917       10,343         63      6,559g
S.btlt,l A,B1                                                               656        1,190       4,i11       10,073       9,922       25,952         51    13,144
Phy.i ..l Contlngen_i., 10                                                           62        1,30          4 452     1'80         1  94       22,47                  4'44
Pri-eCnignio4                                                                         27         165        It 17       3 55         4 954       976            5         5
TOAL^                                                                        749       1,474       5,596       14,636      15,668       38,323         51    i9,41o
11 T. be --cri-d i.t-rni-nalyr
il  Includes --ai- of di-et l.b-r d-itng pl -t sh.-d-.n, nd pr--op-rting ..d t-ainee...              ai
3/ T.o..   ..e ep-ct.1y h.."y -ok.h.p reurmn    h. Company ...Id b. able to ... the  -ek.hop f-cllit"e.
of E-s Afrij-  Rtlv-ys in N.i-obi.
4/See App-ndi. 1.
Jan-,r 20, 1977



KSNYA          .ANNEX 15
SOUTH HTANZA SUGAS PROJECT                                Table 16
PROJECT COSTS
SUGM  FACTORY - RECUBBENT VARIABLE COSTS /
(1(Shs.'000O)
Unit       Year 1    Year 2       Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    TOTAL    F           Exchang
Production Data Basis
Cane Available J                                                                 '000 t                                            246       351
Daily Milling Plant Capacity                                                    t of Cane                                        2,000     2,000
Milling Days Required                                                           Days                                               123       176
Working Days Available 3/                                                       Days                                               300       300
Effective Plant Capacity Utilization                                            ,                                                   41        59
Sugar Production                                                                t                                               24.6oo    35,100
Molasses Production                                                             t                                                9,100    12,990
Conomption          jUnit Costs
per t of Cane   U
Chemicals
Alum                              kg 0 18         100 kg   275      o.45                                                         111       158       269       80        215
Soda Ash                          kg 1.07         t      4,100      0 30                                                          74       105       179      80         143
Busan                             kg 0.003        200 1 5,000        .08                                                          20        28        48      80          3&
Process Chemicals                                                   0.30                                                          74       105       179      80         143
Chemical Lime Hydrate             kg 1.80         25 kg     10.93   0.80                                                         197       281       478      80         382
laboratory Chemicals                                                 .04                                                          10        14        24      So          19
Sulphur                           kg o.45         100 kg   176      0.80                                                         197       281       478      80         382
Subtotal                                                                                                             683        972     1,655      80       1,332
Fuel Oil and Lubricants
Oil and Lubricants                                                   .80                                                         197       281.      478      6o         287
Furnace Oil for Boilers                                             3.80                                                         935     1,334     2,269      60       1,361
Diesel Oil for Generators                                            .90                                                         221       316       537      60         322
Subtotal                                                                                                           1,353      1,931     3,284      60      1,970
Packing Materials
Jute Bags with Plastic Liners                                       7.50                                                       1,845     2,633     4,478      30       1,344
Sundry Material                                                     1.00                                                        246        351       597      30         179
Subtotal                                                                                                           2,091     2,984      5,075      3        1 1,523
Number  Daily    Daily   Daily Gang
of Staff Wages Benefits       Costs
Direct Labor
Cane Yard                            33      10.20     1 60      389.40                                                           48        69       117       __        __
illing                               21     10 30      1.60      249.90                                                           31        44        75       __        __
lodler                               33      9.50      1.40      359.70                                                           41        63       107      __         __
Clarification/Evaporation            21     10.50      0 60      254.10                                                           31        45        76      _-         __
Crystallization                      12      16.00     2.40      220.80                                                           27        39        66       __        __
Curing Centrifugation                24      12.20     1.80      336.oo                                                           41        59       100       -
Bagging Station                      33       9 60     1.50      366.30                                                           45        64       lD9      --        -_
Quality Control                      39      15.80     2.4o      709.80                                                           87       125       212      --         --
Ipec-al Helper                       30      7.90      1.20      273 00                                                          34         48        82      __         _
Night Shift Allowance                                            112.80                                                           14        20        34      --         __
Subtotal                                            3,235 50                                                         402       576        978      __        __
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                                                            4,529     6,463    10,992       44      4,825
Physical Contingencies, 105                                                                                                 453       646      1 .99      44        483
Subtotal                                                                                                           4,982     7,109    12,091       44      5.305
Price Contingencies 1                                                                                                    i,43o      3,071     4,501      44      1,964
TOTAL                                                                                                              6.412    10,180    16,592       44      7,272
I,/ Excluding the cost of sugar cane.
3 For detailo see Annex 7 , Table 2.
3/ Derived as follovs 365 calendar days less public holidays (8), weekend cleaning stops (39),
roller changes (14), boiler off-time (48
i/ See Appendix 1.
Septerber 30, 1976



A! 15
IL..                earS           TMffeigb;ee
aimt last             Ia      i'       EL.EiI                                 7          n      eo        TOTAL        6     Aoa
A. CAPITAR COCSC
Ftlnitc,eapdhYi1e0t
Oi'ric        M FT^riiitprs                                                 200              450              597                                        1,247        50       623
Offic. EqoiP-t                                                                20              30               70                                          120        50        60
Accoantir,g ?aM-hi-.                                                                         250                                                           250        80       200
ardenig EniPngt _E220                                                                                                                                       M 220     50       110
Subtotl                                                        220              730                                                         1,37        54        993
Vehioles
Co.qp.  Cars
Generl Meoagrat                                97                   1      97                                                                             97       60         58
Oth-r ManegAt                                  45                   4      180       1       45       2      90                                          315        60       189
PlCkup, 1,200 to 1,600 cc                         43                                                    2       96       4     192                          288       60        173
Aebul-nc          t                               91                                   1      9        _      l-1              192                          791      6ro        A55
R.di. nd Cnsonlo.tions                                                         264                                                                            264       75        198
sobtotel Capital Coatw                                         761              866              853              412                       2,892        58     1,666
phy.il e11ni~5os,10%                                                  76               &T41                                                         289        58       167
SubtotAl                                                       537              959                               4513                      3,18         58     1,833
Price Cootie oies 5/                                                  25              _ 3      _ _   172                127                         42S       5S        245
TOTAL                                                          862            1,048           1,116               580                       3,606        58     2,078
SaberS.. See  .l _0                                        _
S AiZBeefit. Totel
B RkCC IRN COSTS
Sal-its
ener14 M..gse3J                                                        1               1                1                1                1
Secretory                                26          7       33        1      33       1       3        I 33 1           1      3 1      1       33        165        __        __
S.btot.1                                                 2      33        2      33       2       33       2       33       2       33        165        __        -
F.nabi0i,87on31 r/                      100         70      170        1     170       1      170       1      170       t     170        1     170         850       70        595
Serertary                                ph          6       30        1      30       1       30       1      30        1      30        1      30         150       __        __
Chief Accou-t-ct 1                       66         46      112        1     112        1     112       1      112       1      112       1     112         560       70        392
General Entrie-   Clerk                  22          6       28        2      56       2       56       4      112       4     132        4     112         448       __        __
Arcount.EPybl.eCtrle, Clerk              22          6       28        1      28       1       28       2      56        2      56        2      56         224        _-       --
ned A2nt. -ctne, pCl-r                   22          6       28        1      28        1      28       1       28'      1       28       1      28         140
Xnruoti.g Y-bi-o Op-et-e                                                               1       28       1      28        8      56        2      56         168       --        --
Chi.f Auditor                            66         46      112                                         1      112       1      112       1     112         336       70        235
Auditor,                                 33          8       41                                         1       41       3      123       3     123         287        __       __
Chief, Cost A-couctin  4J                66         46      112                                         1      112       1     112        1    -112         336        70       235
Haterikl Ditrlbotion Clerk               22          6       28                         1      28       2       56       4      112       4     112         308        -_       --
Ib   Drlistribtion Clerk                 22          6       28                                         2       56       4      112       4      112        280        __        -
Pyroll Inpt, Clerk                       22          6       28        1      28        2      56       2       56       2       56       2       56        252         _       --
Cost, An-lys.i Clerk                     22          6       28                                                          2       56       2      56         112        --
Ad.dn.itr-tice/OFns-ce Officer J         66         46      112                                         1      112       1      112       1      112        336        70       235
Chier                                    33          8       41        1      41        1      41       2       82       2       82       2      82         328        -_        -
Account, Payable Control Clerk           22          6       28        1      28        1      28       2       56       3       84       3       84        280        -_
Chief Purch-. r                          44         11       55        1      55       1       55       1       55       1      55        1      55         275        __       __
A.eistapt Purchaser                      22          6       28                                         2       56       3       84       3      84         224        __       __
eneral Store, Clerk
Storekeep-r                              44         11       55        1      55       1       55       1      55        1      55        1      55         275       __        __
Anintant Storeier                        1           5       23                        1       23       1      23        2      46        2      46         138       __        __
Sunar Stor-ekeper                        33          8       41                                                          1      41        1      41          82       __        __
Mcla .e.  Shipplg Clerk                  22          6       28                                                          1       28       1      28          56        __       __
Celephonr-perntor                         6          1        7                        1        7       2       14       2       14       2      14          49        __       __
reesecder/Janntor                         3                   3        2       6       2        6       5       15       5       15       5       15         57        __       __
DrOier                                    6          1        7        2      14       4       24       7       49      10      70       10      70         227        __       __
Typin  Pool                              10          2       12                        2       24       s       10      10     120      10      120        34
Subtotal                                                16     651       25     799      19   1,546       71-  2,053       71   2,053       7,102        24     l,k92
PereoolIndostrial Oclatloan
Personnel 5002 Induotrinl Seintione
Etrtacr7                               70         49      119        1     119        1     119        1     119       1      119       1      11         595
Secretary                                04          6       30        1      30       1       30)      1       30       1       30       1      30         150        -        -
PersO=e OffIer46                                    11       55        1      55        1      55       1       53       1       55       1      55         275        -        -
I rs ene1 Clerk                          22          6       28        1      28        2      56       3       84       5     290        5     290         748
Md_ntria   OelatIons OCticer             44         11       55                        1       55       1      55        1      55        1      55         220       __        __
rtedionlofCMoer                           44        22       66                         1      66        1      66       1      66        1      66         266        -        -
Zuras                                    14          3       17                         1      17       2       34       a       34       2      34         119
.rses Aid                                10         3       13                         1      13       2       26       2      26        2      26          91        __       __
ChWef Se_nrlty                           22          6       28                         1      28       1       28       1       28       1      28         11          _        _
Securoty 7uard                           10          3       13                        3       39       6       78       9     117        9     117         351
WlfareO ssiA t-t                         22          6       28                         1      28       2       56       2       56       2      56         196        __
Tri.ing OfficerM  /                      44         32       76        1      76        1      76       1       76       1       76       1      76         380        70       266
Clerk                                    22          6       28        1      28       1       28       1      28        1      28        1      28         140       --       --
tObtote      --24   1,o2                                                       61         23     735 4            980      28      9S0      3 641                 P66
S.,ualSlris2    100                                                       3 142           76   2,316     121   3,06       101   3.2  1      0 l,908      18     1,979
0548r ISnditure-
Vrhril. 7oVi730,ternaleaent f/                                               173              110              146             291              291       1,011       65        657
Onhlclo hbDAiAe   Costs                                                      138              207              276             552              552       1,725       60      1,035
Printing, Statlo-ary, Other Supplie,                                         113              170              295             453              453       1,416       40        566
Book, ad PerisdcIsle                                                           5                                10              10               10          40       30          2
Telephone, Tele1, Postage                                                     55               82              109             218              218         682       30        'O5
Reroitaet 2/                                                                 173              347              417             278              278       1,493       30        448
ondical and Welfare Sercices |                                               107              143             285              571              571       1,677       40        671
Oninten=nee 7J                                                                20               64              128             128              528         468       30        140
Mninienacs, H-ino and Social
Aoiti.s .J Y                                                                                269             541            1,085            1,150       3,045       30        914
Audit, Constlte ts, Third Party
Tepensee 5/                                              0~      ~       ~~       ~      ~~       ~      ~~~       ~      ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~3 66  99  132  130  662  50  131
9iersllaeecoe5]                                           ~~ ~ ~~~                       ~~~~            ~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~25  71  141  281  281    79 3   6
gSbtotal Other RpnOdit- so2                                                   1,538       2-379                 3,999            4,064     12618         40     59 249
Subtotrl  er-re.t COsts                                      1,862            2,976            4,693            7,065           7,130      23,726        30       777
phystiel Coetiogeeoiee, 104                                        2,0              3               S,>p              7  7             7                       30     708
Subtotal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                    3,                                   133  7.725
prioc Contingencies 2J                                                  73            373           1 108            2.446             3,529      7.531       30    2.247
TOTA1                                                        2,121            3,649            6,270           10,218           11,372     33,630        30    10,032
C   8ANA03125T PEE
Sage Coot                                                           1,121            1,121           1,121            1,210            1,210      9,783       100     5,783
PceCootingen..ies 22-                                                              --                                3               581      1.017       100    1,017
TOTA  2/                                                      1,121           1,121            1,121            1,646            1,791      6,800       100     6,800
2   Rererf  to Sooth NyyAna sugar Coapany .40Y, for Ken   Sugar Anthority  ee Table 20.
/ llnder the  AangmeAt Agr-net (A-ne.  11 the  .-eeal Manager a on1-ry 1, incl-ded in tOn  ae   et fe.,
2/ To be recruited ifteratioallo,
-1 inchdee incidental    es   pV ble oder tbh Me,agst Agrent (par-  10 (3( - (cii).
J/ Includes eupxplies e=d non_sealery oplerating eipenee. of Oieesaey snd social Tcailltirn
76 Includeesoereness of off ie. equogaseb, partitionn, furniture and insietl-ti2n
_   Rpres-=ts 254 car year of c-pital  0t; ens Table 17
1/ Include, a fioed fee plus carible c-issi- for YeIrs 4-5,  Rd the General -1 noger .   s.. ay.
Dece-ber 30, 1976



Table 16
SOUTH NYAliZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
ROADS
(R8sirOOO)
YTr 1               Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5                    Foreign Exchange
Km.   Amount       Km.   Amount        Km.   Amount        Km.   Amount        Km.   Amount        TOTAL         %      Amount
A.  ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTRNANCE UNIT  1/
Construction 2/
Non-classified - Access Tracks                             45        495       160   1,760         160   1,760         35        385       -        -         4,400        60      2,640
- Access Roads                             15     1.200         60   4.800          60   4.800         15     1.200                          12.000        60      7,200
Subtotal                                             1,695             6,560                6,560                1,585       -        -        16,400        60      9,840
Maintenance 3/
Noc-classified - Access Tracks                                                  45       18        205       82       365        146       400       160        406        60         243
- Access Roads                                                  15     105          75     525       135         945       150    1,050       2.625        60      1,575
Subtotal                                                                  123                 607                1,091               1,210      3,031        60      1,818
Design and Supervision  41                                              178                630                .672                  262                  106      1,848        60      1,109
Subtotal A                                           1,873              7,313              7,839                 2,938               1,316    21,279         60    12,767
Physical Contingencies - 13%                                187                731                 784                  294                  132     2.128         60      1,277
Subtotal                                             2,060             8,044                8,623                3,232               1,448     23,407        60    14,044
Price Contingencies  5/                                     103              1.287               2.501                1.442                 840      6.173         60      3,704
TOTAL                                                2,163              9,331              11,124                4,674               2,288    29,580          60    17,748
B. CONSTRUCTION UNDER CONTRACT 6/
Construction 2/
Non-classifisd - Collection Road  (Gr-vel)                  2        400         7   1,400           7   1,400          2        400       -                  3,600         60     2,160
- Factory Access Road                       1.2      720         -      _            -       -          -         -        -          -         720        60        432
- Feeder Roads                             10     1,200         30   3,600          30   3,600         10     1,200        -          -       9,600        60      5,760
Classified      - Access Roads                              5        400        16   1,280          16   1,280          3.8      304       _          _       3,264         60     1,958
- Feeder Roads                              3       360         12   1,440          12   1,440          4.5      540       -          -       3,780        60      2,268
- Collection Roads (Gravel)                                      3     600           4.4   880          -         -        -          -       1,480        60        888
- Collection Roads (Bit-ase)                                     3   1,500           3.6 1,800          -         -        -          -       3,300        60      1,980
Bridge  7/                                                  -         -          -                          800                            --                   800        60        480
Subtotal                                            3,080              9,820              11,200                 2,444                         26,544        60    15.926
Maintenance 3/
Non-classified - Collection Roads (Gravel)                                       2       40          9      180        16        320        18       360        900        60         540
- Factory Access Road                                            1.2    72           1.2    72          1.2       72         1.2      72        288        60        173
= Feeder Roads                                                 10       70         40      280        70        490         80       560      1,400        60        840
Classified      - Access Roads                                                   5       35         21      147        37        259        40.8    286          727        60        436
- Feeder Roads                                                   3       21         15      105        27        189        31.5    221         536        60        321
- Clleciton Roads(Gravel)                                                           3       60         7.4      148         7.4    148         356        60        214
- Collection Roads (Bitumen)                                                         3     150          6.6      330         6.6    330         810        60        486
Bridge                                                                                                                            80                  80         160        60         96
Subtotal                                                                  238                 994                1,888               2,057      5,177         60     3,106
SOpervisino  _t                                                         113                383                 499                   159                  90      1,244        60        746
Subtntal B                                           3,193            10,441               12,693                4,491               2,147    32,965         60    19,778
Physical Contingenc-es - 10%                                319              1.044               1.269                  449                  215     3.296         60      1 978
Subrotal                                             3,512            11,485               13,962                4,940               2,362    36,261          60    21,756
Price Contingencies  5/                                     176              1.838               4.048                2.154               1.370      9.586         60      6,030
TOTAL                                                3,688             13,323              18,010                7,094               3,732    45,847          60    27,786
C. SUMMARY
Boseline Costs A and B                                                5,066             17,754              20,532                7,429               3,463      54,244        60    32,545
Physical Contingencies -10%                                506               1.775               20533                   743                347      5.424         60     3.255
Subtotal                                             5,372             19,329             22,585                 8,172               3,810    59,668          60    35,800
Price Contingencies  _/                                     279              3.125               6.549                3.596               2.210    15.759          60      9,734
TOTAL                                                5,851            22,654              29,134                11,768               6,020    75,427         60    45,534
1/  The cost estinateS include a11 capital and recurret cost of the
Road Construction and Maintenance Unit of the Agricultural Department.
2/  For unit construction costs see Anne  12
B/ .ased On the foli1ing unit costs:  access tracks, R8hs. 400/Wsyear;
access and feeder roads, RKhs. 7,000/ks/year; gravel nd bitumen access
and collection roads and bridge, 10% of construction costs per year.
4/  Design cost for 50 km of unsurveyed access tracks, 4% of construction;
supervision costs, 6% of total construction costs.
5/ See Appendix 1.
6/ Responsibility of Ministry of Works.
7/  InnludeS A-1 highway crunci-c onlyn   -nir bridgework. are nncluded in
road construction costs.
8/  Sin percent of construction costs.
Septenber 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
HOUSING AND SOCIAL AMENTIES /
(KShs.'DDO)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4           Year 5                   Foreign Exchange
Ulnit Cost    No.   Amount    No.   Amount   No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    TOTAL           %     Amount
A.  HOUSES !
Type A                                      170        3        510     2       340    1        170                                       1,020       30        306
Type B                                      126        3        378                    1        126                                         5o4       30        151
Type C                                       84       10        84o     6       5o4   18      1,512                                      2,856        30        857
Type D                                       67       18      1,206    13       871   26      1,742     1        67                       3,886       30      1,166
Type E                                       32       66      2,112    73     2,336  278      8,896    56     1,792                      15,136       30      4,541
Type F                                       22       20        440     4        88  197      4,334    34       748                       5,610       30     1,683
Subtotal                                          5,486            4,139         16,780            2,607                     29,012        30     8, 704
H.  OTHER FACILITIES
Clubhall and Playgrounds                    8148                                848                                                         848        30       254
General Manager's Residence                 270                 270                                                                         270       30         81
Guest House                                 314                 314                                                                         314       30         94
Nursery School                              385                                 385                                                         385       30        116
Company Store                               458                                 458                                                         458       30        137
Dispensary                                  427                 427                                                                         427        30       128
Rondavels  /                                                    830           1,660           1,66o                                       4,150        30     1,245
Subtotal                                          1,841            3,351          1,660                                       6,852        30     2,055
C.  UTILITIES, STREETS, FTRNISHINGS
Street Lighting                                               1,308           1,308           1,308                                       3,924       50      1,962
Water Reticulation System                                       436             436             436                                       1,308       50        654
Streets  /                                  120                 600             600             480                                       1,680       60      1,008
Furniture and Equipment  /                                    1,065           1,o65           1,065                                       3195        140     1 278
Subtotal                                          3,409            3,409           3,289                                     10,107        4     4 ,90e
Subtotal A,B,C                                   10,736           10,899         21,729            2,607                     45,971        34    15,661
Physical Contingencies, 10%                              1,074           1.020           2,173             261                       4,598       34      1,563
Subtotal                                         11,810           11,989         23,902            2,868                     50,569        34    17,224
Price Contingencies 6/                                     591           1,918           6,932            1,262                     10,703       34      3,629
TOTAL                                            12,401           13,907          30,834           4,130                     61,272        34    20,863
/ Construction costs only; the cost of an ambulance and recurrent costs are included under General
Management and Administration, Table 15.
For details see Annex 13.
Includes materials and site preparation only; construction to be carried out by prospective occupants.
Community streets only; factory streets are included in Table 12, and sugar cane roads in Table 16.
Cost estimate based on KShs. 120,000/km.
5/  Includes furniture for houses, types A-D, and for all other facilities, except rondavels; medical
equipment; and equipment for the nursery school, store and clubhall.
See Appendix 1.
September 30, 1976



AN=  15
Table 18
KESNYA
SOUTH NYAN2A SUGAR PROJ.T
FROJECT COSTS
AGRC4ULTURAL RESEARCH
(KSh. 000)
Year 1           Year L           Year 3            Yar 4             Year 5                    Foreign Excohnge
Unit Cost              No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.         Amount No.        Amount    uO.   Amont      TOTAL        7      Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS
South Nyaooa Sugar Copanar5
b'ot_Clater Trestnent PIant                          83                   1      83                                                                                 83       90         75
Microscope                                            5                           5                                                                                  5       90          4
Meteorological Equipment                                                         10                 9                                                               19        60        11
Soil Analysis Equiprent                                                          13                15                                                              28        75         21
Field MEperineot Equipnert                                                        5                 5                                                               10       60          6
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Long Base                 100                   1     100                                                                                100       60         61
Compasy Car                                          45                   1      45                                                                                45        80          36
Motorcycles                                           7                   3      21                                                                                21        60         13
subtotal                                                          282                29                                                             311        73        226
National Sugar Research Institute. Yibos
Four-9lheel Drive 'tehicle, Long Base               100                   1     100                          1     100                                            200        6o        123
Lorry, 7t Capacity                                  168                                    1      168                                                             168        60        101
.otorcycles                                           7                                    6                        80                                            200        60        125
Equiipmnet 1/                                                                                                                                                                6
Tractor, 65/90 HP With Implementn                   473                                    2      966                                                             9466        9        85i
Subtotal                                                                        1,276               180                                            946        ,O       1,
Subtotal Capital Costs                                            382            1.305               180                                          1,867        77      1,443
PhysOc-l Contingencies, 100                                               3               131                18                                            187        77        1644
Suhbotal                                                          420            1,436               198                                          2,054        77      1,555
Price Continge .cues  J                                                   13              144                41                                            198        77        152
TOTAL                                                             433            1,580               239                                          2,252        77      1,739
B   RECTIRENT COSTS                          Yearly
Salaries  Benefits  Total
S.,thg5rn  a Sugar Conpary
Salaries 3J
Agrcn... -t                             90         63       153        1      153        1     153        1      153        1      153        1     153      765           70        536
As-outast Agrono=ist                    30         21        51        1       91        1      51        1       51        1      51        1       51         255        __        __
Overseer                                 8          2         10       3       30        3      30        3       30        3       30       3       30         150        __        __
Laborer                                  4          1         5        5       25       11      75       15       75       15       75      15       75         32-
Subtotal Salaries                                         10      259       20      309      20      309       20      309       20     309       193          3t        53
Other Expenditures
Travel, Moving                                                                 12                12               12                12               12          60        50         30
Vehicle Rurping Costs 6                                                        71              109               109               109              109         507        60        304
Pr-nting, Stationery, Other Supplies                                            7                 7                7                 7                7          35        4         14
Books, Periodicals, Technical Literature                                       20                20               20               20                20         100        70        6T
Fertilizers, Chenicals, Other Expenses 5/                                      50               150              170               190              190          750       80
"nifor.s, Tools, Equipoest 5/                                                  15                40               45                60               60         220        67        110
Subtotal Other hxpenditures                                       175               338              363               398              398       1,672        67      1,128
Subtotel                                                          434               647              672               707              707       3,167        52      1,664
Nati-onal Sugar Research Insttute., Kibos
Salar-es
prd-uct-on Econornist - International5Y2           B5       207                          1     207        1      207                                            414        70        290
- Lcal           55         27         82                                           1      82        1       82        1      82         246        __
Agron--ust/E.gi.eer  - International l22           85       207                          1     207        1      20(7                                           414        70        090
-Local           55         27         82                                           1      82        1       82        1      82         246        __        __
Irrigation/Draisage Specialist
I Snternation& 122          85        207                         1     207         1     207                                            414        70        290
-local           55         27         82                                           1      82        1       82        1      82         246        __        __
Assistant  /                            30         15         45                         2       90        4      180       4      180        4     180         630        -_        -_
Oriver                                   7          2          9       1        9        4       36       5       45        5      45        5       45         180        --        --
L.aborer                                 4          2          6                         S       48      10       60       10      60       10       60         228        --        --
SObtotal Salaries                                                   9              795             1,152               531              531       3,018        29        870
Other Fxpendit,ures
Housing/Educ-t-on Allovance                                                                     112              112                                            224        30         67
Travel                                                                         30                40               50               50               53          220        '0        110
"ehicle R.un-     Costs                                                        33              225               251              251              2u1        1,011        60       6,07
Recruit=ent and Re.ettlenent                                                                    174              174                                            348        80        278
Books, Periodicals, Technical Literature                                       20               20                20               20                20         100        70         70
Fertilizers, ChePicals, Materials                                              50               100              120               180              200         650        80        520
rools, S-all Taple=ents, Other Expenses                                        20                40               60                60               60         240        30         72
Subtotal Other Expendit-ree                                       153               711              787               561              581       2,793        62      1,724
S,btotal                                                          162             1,506            1,939             1,092            1,112       5,811        45      2,594
Subtotal iecurrent Expenditures                                   596             2,153            2,611             1,799            1,819       8,978        67      6,258
Phy'sOcl Contingencica, 108                                               60              215               261              180               182         898        67       626
Subtotal                                                          656             2,368            2,b72            1,979             2,001       9,N7c       O7  0     ,lN
Pric    - octingencucs ./                                                 23              273               626              628               904      2,454        47      1,153
TOTAL                                                             679            2,641             3,498             2,607            2,905      12.330        47      5,837
South Kynca Sugar Conpany 7/ _ Capital                                             321               35                                                             356        7         2578
_ Becurrent                                       494              793               897            1,023             1,128      4.335                2, 3
TOTAL                                                             815               828              897             1,023            1,128       4,691        54      2,531
Nat n-al Ougar 3esearch Institute, Kibos 7/
- Caputal                                         112            1,545              239                                     '    1,896         78     1,481
T  Recurrent                                      1835           1848              2 601            15584            1.777       7,995        45      3,564
TOTAIL                                                             297            3.393            2.840             1.584                        9,9          53      5,043
G0RANI TOTAL                                                     1,112            4,221            3,737             2,607            2,905      14,582        52      ',576
1/  Includes a lyoimeter, nicroscope and other equiprent for laboratory and f-eld use.
2/  See AppendIX 1.
3/  For Research Staff Uit is the Agr-cultural Departmeet.
4/   ...ed on.  KShs. 1.50/ia for 4-wheel drive  ehicle (21,000 ks/year), KShO. 2.70/kh  for lorries (21,000 kh/year),
KBSh. 0.60/kh  for Gororuvcles '21,000 hk/year), KShs. 63.60/hour for tractor '2,000 hours/year), KShs. 1.60 for
Compa-y cons (21,000 knf/y.a).
51  -Isludes expenditures for irrigation trials.
6/ Staffing my bh modified to usIlude Assistast Ageonemisto and Technical Asi.tanats ns required.
7/ 7ncludingucosrrgecu7es6
Dece=ber 30, 1976



KENY
SOUTH NYANZA SUGCR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
S?AB    TRAINING
(KShb '000)
NHmber      Unit Cost
of        per Week                                                                                          Foreign   Exchange
Type of Training             Trainees      (KShs.)       Year  I       Year  2       Year  3       Year  4       Year  5        Total         %          Amont
A.    DIRECTLY PROJECT-RRLATED
Agricultural Department
4-Week Program                                       In existing factory               4            550          18              9                                                        9        -             -
12-Week Program                                      ITC Course                        22            300          18            36             25                                         79
Drivers' Training                                     3 weeks of instruction          206            250            8            14             12            79            39           152
Overseas Observation Tour                             4-week visits                     2             -                          36                                                       36        100             36
Subtotal                                                                                                 26            95             37            79            39           276         13             36
Factory Department
4-Week Program                                         In existing factory              18            550                                        40                                        40         -
6-Week Program                                         In existing factory               3            500                                         9                                                   -            -
8-Week Program                                         In existing factory              14            500                                        56                                        56         -             -
12-Week Program                                         In exisaing factory              26            450                                       140                                       140         -            -
12-Week Program                                         ITC course                       45            300                                       162                                       162         -             -
24-Week Program                                         In existing factory              15            300                                       108                                       108         -             -
24-Week Program                                         ITC course                        8            300                                        58                                        58         -             -
Subtotal                                                                                                                             573                                       573         -             -
Other Departments
6-Week Program                                         Factory/Courses                   5            400                          4              4             4                          12         -             -
8-Week Program                                         Factory/Courses                   5            400                          5              6             5                          16         -
Sobtotal                                                                                                                9             10             9                          28         -             -
Subtotal All Departments                                                                                 26           104            620            88            39           877          4             36
Replacement of Drop-outs and Transferees (30%)                                                                        8            31            186            26            12           263          4             11
Continuous Company Training 1/                                                                                                                                 243           243           486          4             19
Subtotal A                                                                                               34           135            806           357           294         1,626          4             66
B.    NOT DIRECTLY PROJECT-RELATED
Graduate Business Program 2/                                                                                     - 83           166            166           249           249           913        100            913 -
Sugar Technology Program  /                                                                                        75           150            225           225           225           900        100            900
International Symposia and Conventions                                                                             20            20             20            20            20           100       100             100
Subtotal B                                                                                              178           336            411           494           494         1,913        100          1,913
Subtotal A + 8                                                                                          212           471          1,217           851           788         3,539         56          1,979
Physical Contingencies, 10% 4/                                                                                  3            14             81            36            29           163          4              7
Subtotal                                                                                                215           485          1,298           887           817         3,702         54          1,986
Price Contingencies  _/                                                                                         9            63            312           319           392         1.095         54            587
TOTAL                                                                                                   224           548          1,610         1,206         1,209         4,797         54          2,573
Subtotal, Directly Project-related                                                                                 38           167          1,094           527           469         2,295          4             71
Subtotal, Not Directly Project-related                                                                            186           381            516           679           74O         2,502        100          2,502
TOTAL                                                                                                  -224           548          I,61o         1,2o6         1,209         4,797         54          2,573
l/    Annual expenditures equal 25% of accumulated total training costs in Year 3.
2/    Overseas university training of one student starting each in Years 1, 2 and 4, at an annual cost per student of US$10,000.
3/    Overseas university training of one student starting each in Years 1, 2 and 3, at an annual cost per student of US$ 9,000.
4/    On directly project-related training only.
5/    See Appendix 1; including not directly project-related training.
December 30, 1976



EWNI AN                                            ANNEX 15
KEII YANS(iAB AUlI)RI'r
PROJECT COSTS                                           Table 20
(KShe.'O)
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5                    Foreign Enchatge
Unit Cost      No.   Amount    No.   Amount    To.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount             TOTAL        %     Amount
A. CAPITAI. COSTS
Car                                                           97         1         130    1          130                                                            260       60         156
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Short Base                          81         1          81    1           81                                                            162       60          97
Office FIurnture and Equipnent                                                      70               200               60                                           330       53         175
Technical Instrurents and EquiYaent                                                 10               24                 5                                            45       50           20
Subtotal                                                         291              445797                                                                   506         450
Phynical Contingencies, 10%                                             29                44                7                                            80       56          45
Subtotal                                                         320              4d5                72                                           077       56         495
Prlce Contingencies 3/                                                  10                                 14 83                                                  56          41
TOTAL                                                            330              53                  6                                            5        56         536
P. REC2EN2T COSTS
Salaries
Chief S-ecutive                                            240         1         240    1         240    1          240    1         240    1          240      1,200       --        -
Planning Officer                                         290/180 1/                      1        290    1          290    1         470    1          180      1,230       50         615
Financial Analyst 4/                                     224/130 ]/                      1        224    2          354    1         130    1          130        838       37         314
Ec-no=ist/StatistC9irs                                     130         1         130    1         130    1          130    2         260    2          260        910       --        --
Agronomist 2               f290/180 ]/                                                   1        290    1          290    2         470    1          180      1,230       50         615
Agricuitur_rlotens oc Officer                              150                           1        150    1          150    1          150    1         150        600       --        --
Sugar Technologist 2                                     250/160 3/                     1         250    1          250    2         410    1          160      1,070       33         350
Training Officer 4                                       250/160 J/                      1        250    2          410    1         160    1          160        980       36         350
Administrative Of icer                                      80           1/2      40    1           80    1          80    1          80    1           80        360       --        --
Secretary                                                   33         1          33    2          66    2           66    2          66    2           66        297       --        -_
Clerk Typist                                                20         2          40    4          80    4           80    4          80    4           80        360       --        __
Dr'_er                                                       9         3          27    4          36    4           36    4          36    4           36        171       --        -_
Messenger                                                    4         1           4    3           12    3          12    3           12    3          12         52
Subtotal Salaries                                      91/2    514   22         2,098   24        2,388   24       2,564   23        1,734      9,298       21      2,244
Other E2penditure.
Travel, Movong, Entertsinnert                                                     60              120               300              200               200        880       60         531
Recrueitent, Resettlenent                                                        252              400               350              120              --'       1,122       50         565
Vehicle Rusnmg Costs 5/                                                           83              166               166              166               166        747       60         448
Printing, Stationery, Other SuTplie.                                              40               50                60               70                70        290       40         116
Books and Per-odicaic                                                             30                30               30               30                30        150       50          75
Cotmunicaiions,  ittlitles, Office R-ot                                          200              240               240              240               240      1,160       40         466
Housong/3ducatIon Allowance -                                                   --                220               220                80               74        594       30         178
Uniforms, Other Expenses                                                          20               33                43                39               35        170       30          51
Consultsnscies a5d Studies  /                                                   --                660               970              34o               520      2.490       30         750
Subtotal Other Expenditures                                      685            1,919            2,379             1,285             1,335     5,039        63       3,180
Subtotel Rccurrent Costs                                       1,199            4,017             4,767            3,849             3,069    16,901        32      5,424
Phynscal Cont-ngcncien, 10%                                              9 62            126              141                95               75        506       57         288
Subtotnl                                                       1,261            4,143             4,908            3,9 3,3,144    17,407                    33      5,712
Proce Co-tiogencies  /                                                  44               497            1.101            1,336             1.466      4.444       33       1.467
TOTAL                                                          1,312            4,64o             6,009            5,280             4,610    21,851        33       7,179
I/ See App3ndi. 1.
' Inter scaiot   l recrent-ent Yearn 2-4, local Years 4-5.
3/  Slaries of notern. tsonally and locally recruited staff, respectively.
12/ Interoational recru-t.ent Years 2-3, local 3-5.
5/  Based on:  KShs. 1.60/ks for car, (24,000 km/year) and 4-wheel drive (30,000 kl/yeer).
Add.t.onal allowance for enpatristes.
7D letailo to be finalized; see An.e. 17.
Excluding salaries and consultancies.
February 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
INTEREST PAYMENTS AND COMMITMENT FEES ON EXTERNAL LOANS 4]
(KShs.'000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   TOTAL          %     Amount
A. INTEREST PAYMENTS
World Bank 2/                        1,751    4,930   10,325   15,314   18,675    50,995    100          50,995
African Development Bank 2/            283    1,380    2,790    3,360    3,652    11,465    100          11,465
Suppliers Credit - Germany 3/         --        --       --      11,226    4,072    15,298    100        15,298
Suppliers Credit - India 3/           --        --       --      10,205    3,702    13,907    100        13,907
European Investment Bank 3/          2,004    5,196    6,574    6,574    6,574    26,922    100          26,922
Eximbank 2/                            711    1,645    1,760    1,564    1,172         6,852    100       6,852
East African Development Bank 3/       668    1,732    2,192    2,192    2,192         8,976    100       8,976
Subtotal            5,417   14,883   23,641   50,435   40,039   134,415    100    134,415
B. LOAN COMMITMENT FEE
World Bank 2/                        1,411    1,145        697      282       141      3,676    100       3,676
African Development Bank 2/            316       213        81       27      --          637    100         637
Eximbank 3/                             69        17     --        --        --           86    100          86
East African Development Bank 3/       139       418     --        --        --          557    100         557
1,935    1,793       778       309      141      4,956    100        4,956
7,352   16,676   24,419   50,744   40,180   139,371    100    139,371
1/ For lending terms see Annex 20, Table 17.
2/ From Annex 20, Table 15.
3/ From Annex 20, Table 8.
December 30, 1976                                                                                               <1>
ILn1



ANNEX 15
Table 22
SOUTH UTYANZJAC     PROJECT
COST ELEMENT QUALIFYING FOR REiTROACTIVE FINANCING 1/
(Kshs. '000)
Reference                    Disbursable
Table No.        Cost          Amount
A. Agricultural Department, Overhead
Salaries                                      2               50             40
Subtotal                                    50              40
B. Agricultural Services Division
Workshop                                      3              250            200
Vehicles                                      3              530            424
Salaries                                     4              240             192
Fuel and Lubricants 2/                       4                50             40
Subtotal                                 1,070            856
C. Nucleus Estate Development
Vehicles                                      5              145            116
Bush Clearing Chain                          5               380            342
Tractor/Disc Bedder/Plough                    5              140            126
Salaries                                     6                60             48
Fuel and Lubricants 3/                      6, 7            120              96
Fertilizers                                   7               50             40
Seedcane 4/                                  7              100              80
Subtotal                                   995             848
D. Outgrowers Development
Vehicles                                      8              145            116
Salaries                                     9                40             32
Fuel and Lubricants 3/                      9, 10             20             16
Seedcane 4/                                 10                80             64
Subtotal                                   285             228
E. General Management and Administration
Vehicles                                     15              250            200
Communications Equipment                    15               264            211
Salaries                                    15               350            280
Management Fee 4/                            15              560            560
Subtotal                                 1,424          1,251
F, Housing and Social Amenities
Architects Fees                              17           1,250          1,000
Guest House                                 17               200           160
Subtotal                                 1,450          1,160
G. Research
Motorcycles                                  18               21            17
Hot-Water Treatment Plant 4/                18               83             75
Meteorological Equipment                    18                10             8
Salaries                                    18               70             56
Subtotal                                   184            156
TOTAL                                    5,458          4,539
1/ Except for items identified in footnote 4, covers
expenditures for the period January - March, 1977.
2/ For the operation of cars and lorries.
3/ For the operation of cars and lorries, and tractor fuel for land
preparation.
4/ Covers expenditures for the period July 1976 - March 1977.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 15
Appendix I
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
CONTINGENCIES
The Project Time Frame
1.        The calculations and phasing in the Appraisal report are based on
calendar years; the Project period is 1977-1981. All baseline costs are up-
to-date as of March, 1977.
Physical Contingencies
2.        A 10% contingency has been allowed on all Project costs except the
purchase of nucleus estate land, the sugar factory turnkey contract, the Com-
pany management fee, training not directly related to the Project, and Kenya
Sugar Authority salaries.
Price Contingencies
3.        Price contingency allowances have been applied to all Project
costs except the foreign currency portion of the sugar factory turnkey con-
tract, and the Company management fee for Years 1-3. The allowances are in
accordance with World Bank guidelines on the projected international inflation
pattern, supplemented by the mission's projection of increases in Kenya's
salary levels. The projected annual price increases are as follows:
Vehicles
Civil Works              and Equipment        Salaries
1976                   13%                          9%               10%
1977                   12%                          8%               10%
1978                   12%                          8%               10%
1979                   12%                          8%               10%
1980 onwards           10%                          7%                9%
4.        Based on these annual projections, the compound contingencies, which
have been added to baseline costs, have been calculated as follows:



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 2
Price Contingencies
Vehicles
Civil Works              and Equipment         Salaries
1977 (9 month)          5%                          3%                 4%
1978                   16%                         10%                13%
1979                   29%                         19%               24%
1980                   44%                         28%               36%
1981                   58%                         37%               48%
The percentages shown for 1977 account for price increases during the period
April - December, 1977. Contingencies for 1978-1981 have been compounded as
of mid-year for each of the respective years; for 1977, the percentages rep-
resent the mid-point of the period April - December.
5.        The "civil works" contingencies have been applied to land clearing
and land preparation operations, drainage works, the local currency component
of the sugar factory turnkey contract, roads, and housing and social amenities.
The "vehicles and equipment" schedule has been applied to vehicles, machinery,
equipment and materials; all recurrent costs, except salaries; agricultural
inputs; cane transport; and land compensation. "Salaries" contingencies have
been added to salaries, the management fee for Years 4-5, and the cost of
training and cane harvesting.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 16
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF WORLD BANK FUNDS
Bank Fiscal Year        Disbursement        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter End          in Quarter           at End of Quarter
1977
September 
December                   --                          __
March                      --                          --
June 1/                    --                          --
1978
September 2/               600                         600
December                   700                       1,300
March                      700                       2,000
June                       800                       2,800
1979
September                  800                       3,600
December                 1,000                       4,600
March                    1,000                       5,600
June                     1,100                       6,700
1980
September                1,200                       7,900
December                 1,500                       9,400
March                    1,700                      11,100
June                     1,700                      12,800
1981
September                1,800                      14,600
December                 1,800                      16,400
March                    1,700                      18,100
June                     1,400                      19,500
1982
September                1,300                      20,800
December 3/              1,300                      22,100
March                    1,000                      23,100
June                     1,000                      24,100
1983
September                  900                      25,000
1/ Estimated quarter of signing of loan agreement.
2/ Estimated quarter of loan effectiveness.
3/ Estimated quarter of project completion.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY (KSA)
Introduction
1.        The Government's current development plans are directed towards
attaining self-sufficiency in sugar by increasing domestic production at
least cost to its economy, and to encourage small-scale agriculture. Towards
these ends, the Government intends to establish new factories, open up new
areas for cane production, and rehabilitate and expand existing factories and
cane areas. Improvements in the overall industzy organization are imperative
in order to provide the Government with an effective and efficient mechanism
to achieve its objectives (Annex 3).
2.        The Kenya Sugar Authority, as created in 1972, was intended to
be the organization to promote and foster the development of the industry.
However, KSA as constituted in 1973 and as it presently exists, only acts
as an advisory body to the Government in sugar industry development. But
even in this capacity, it does not have the staffing and facilities available
to effectively render the advisory services expected of it. The sugar indus-
try, in the meantime, is continually faced with numerous problems, the re-
medial measures for which require action at the national level. Under the
existing Government structure, the national efforts at rendering assistance
to the industry involve a number of agencies wizh little coordination and
widespread inefficiency.
3.        With the proposed reorganization, the KSA would be the national
body that could effectively provide advisory services to the Government in
all aspects of sugar industry development and, at the same time, be made
responsible for monitoring the implementation o- Government-authorized pro-
grams. The KSA would be revitalized, functioni g as a statutory board, but
with sufficient delegated powers to become an e fective organization for
promoting and fostering the development of the ougar industry. It would be
the bridge between the Government and the various sectors of the industry,
thereby unifying all efforts towards the same national goals. In broad
terms, KSA would advise Government on policies to be formulated and on
plans and programs required to achieve Government objectives, implement or
monitor the implementation of programs authoriz-ed, and compile the neces-
sary information on the progress of programs fo: the Government's informa-
tion and guidance for subsequent action.
Objectives and Functions of KSA
4.        It would be necessary to modify KSA's overall objectives and func-
tions to define its specific role in sugar industry development. These ob-
jectives and functions would be:



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(a) to assist the Government in the comprehensive plann-
ing and formulation of attainable programs of sugar
industry development consistent with overall national
objectives, policies and programs;
(b) to advise Government on the technical, financial and
economic aspects of projects for implementation;
(c) to effectively evaluate and monitor the progress of
implementation of projects and programs undertaken by
various agencies to assure that Government is promptly
informed of delays and problems and advised of action
required to achieve the targets in accordance with
plans;
(d) to recommend policies for Government consideration de-
signed to promote and foster industry development;
(e) to provide effective liaison between the various sugar
industry segments and the Government agencies concerned
with specific problems of the industry;
(f) to compile necessary, timely and relevant industry
statistics;
(g) to formulate and implement training programs in con-
sultation with appropriate institutions, and to
monitor training activities of the sugar companies.
5.        The Authority would determine the most efficient means by which
these objectives can be achieved. It would study and make recommendations
on the need to eventually raise its own revenue through imposition of levies
on sugarcane or sugar for financing its operations; borrow and on-lend funds
for development purposes; create and operate special funds for designated
purposes; employ and remunerate agents. These provisions would be clearly
specified and amplified, if necessary, as part of a gradual process of trans-
ferring increasing responsibilities to KSA from other agencies.
Structure and Organization
6.        Besides the Members of the Authority, headed by a Chairman, the KSA
organization would consist of a Chief Executive and staff in various functional
areas of expertise (Chart World Bank - 16461). The strengthening of staff
resources of KSA, together with the broadening of its objectives and functions,
would be the most important aspect of support p:ovided under the Project.
Organizational details are briefly sketched below.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
The Members of the Authority
7.        The overall responsibility for the management of the Authority
would be vested jointly in the Members of the Authority to be appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture in accordance with the Agriculture Act (Cap 318),
Kenya Sugar Authority (Amendment) Order 1977. The Members of the Authority
would be individuals who are directly or indirectly involved in sugar industry
activities and include representatives of:
The Ministry of Agriculture
The Ministry of Finance and Planning
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
The Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services
The Ministry of Lands and Settlement
The Provincial Commissioners
The Sugar Factories
The Sugarcane Growers
The Banking Industry or the Private Commercial Sector
8.        The responsibilities of the Members of the Authority would include the
planning, direction, and control of KSA operations, particularly in the
following areas:
Studies and recommendations for Government consideration
of plans and attainable programs designed to promote and
foster industry development, including, among others, the
establishment of new factories and production zones; expan-
sion, rehabilitation or improvement of existing factories
or plantations where economically feasible; accelerated
programs for the development of qualified manpower; effi-
cient marketing and distribution of sugar and by-products;
integrated assistance programs for farmers; research matters;
and such other programs as would contribute to increased
productivity;
formulation and recommendation of policies for Government
consideration concerning, among others, appropriate changes
in prices of sugarcane, sugar and by-products; practical
methods for payment of cane based on quality; type of sugar
to be produced; quality control of sugar and sugarcane;



ANNEX 17
Page 4
zoning or rezoning of production areas; cesses to be
raised; purchasing procedures; import or export of sugar;
and such other policies as would be consistent with overall
national policies and objectives;
advising Government on contract negotiations for new
projects, particularly on technical aspects of contract
proposals;
monitoring the implementation of Government-authorized
programs, particularly the construction of new factories
or rehabilitation or improvement of existing production
zones; infrastructure projects in sugar-producing areas;
integrated assistance programs for small-scale farmers,
etc.; and evaluating the results achieved; and
compiling relevant industry statistics; and special
inquiries.
The Membership would review actions taken by the Executive Committee and the
Chief Executive and would be responsible for the appointment and fixing of
remuneration of the key officers of KSA, and of auditors and other retained
lawyers or consultants as would be required in the conduct of KSA operations.
The Executive Committee
9.        With the size and composition of the Membership as proposed, it may
be difficult to have a quorum if it meets frequently. Therefore, an Executive
Committee (Committee) should be appointed consisting of 3-5 Members. The
Committee, acting on matters specifically delegated to it by the whole Member-
ship would also undertake such other functions as liaison with other Government
ministries on a permanent basis, and always act on behalf of all the Members.
The Chief Executive
10.       The Chief Executive, as the chief administrator of KSA, would
be responsible for implementing policies, plans and programs authorized by the
Members of KSA. Specifically, his duties and responsibilities would include:
recommendations of policies for long-range and annual
plans and programs affecting the sugar industry with
the cooperation of the sugar companies, farmers, re-
search staff, distribution units and other entities
in the industry;
preparation of annual plans and work programs for
the Authority's own operations;



ANNEX 17
Page 5
direction and control of KSA operations in accordance
with policies, plans and programs established by the
Members of KSA;
review of periodic reports monitoring the progress
of authorized programs for the industry and recommend-
ing measures for KSA action where necessary;
review of relevant industry statistics and submission
of comments and recommendations to the Members of KSA;
review of reports on special inquiries, and submission
of comments and recommendations for action by KSA; and
preparation of reports on KSA operations.
The Chief Executive would be assisted by expert staff in the areas of
planning and finance, agricultural production and organization, factory
technology, and manpower development.
Planning and Finance Staff
11.       To be staffed with a Planning Officer, a Financial Analyst and an
Economist/Statistician, this unit would be responsible for preparing industry
plans and programs with the cooperation of other staff of KSA, other Government
Ministries and of the sugar companies, sugar research staff, and KNTC. These
plans and programs, which would be for Government consideration, would be
submitted to the Chief Executive and the Membership as a whole and include the
following areas:
investments in new plants and essential infrastructure, and
other projects requiring budgetary support of Government
agencies;
substantial financing requirements for outgrowers'
cane production and major repairs, rehabilitation or
expansion of existing sugar companies; and investment
justifications;
major manpower requirements of sugar companies necessi-
tating national assistance for recruitment and training;
major acquisition needs for transport facilities and
farm machinery in support of agricultural operations
involving policy considerations of labor substitution
and requiring substantial financing outlays;



ANNEX 17
Page 6
12.       The Planning and Finance Staff also would assist the Chief Execu-
tive in formulating management information systems, forms and procedures
for compiling necessary and relevant statistics and in compiling and report-
ing useful information for KSA and Government use; provide advice on the
financial aspects of project or contract proposals; and determine investment
justifications on the basis of financial, economic or other criteria es-
tablished by KSA and the Government. At the request of the Chief Executive,
the staff would undertake analyses of the pricing of sugarcane and sugar;
undertake or recommend the engagement of independent firms to undertake
special investigations of projects, programs or sugar companies involving sub-
stantial Government funds; and perform such other functions as are delegated
to KSA by the Government and require the available expertise.
13.       The Financial Analyst, in addition to his duties as chief advisor
in financial matters, would devise systems for the effective monitoring and
evaluation of on-going investment projects and programs. Such systems would
involve selecting key project activities, defining monitoring indices for
these activities, instituting data collection mechanisms, preparing time
schedules for periodic on-site inspections, and evaluating the data and
visual impressions against pre-established criteria. The findings would be
summarized in progress reports to the Chief Executive. He also would be
responsible for initiating appropriate action to facilitate project imple-
mentation if requested by project management, or if his findings indicate
possible cost overruns or slippages.
Agricultural Staff
14.       An Agronomist and Agricultural Extension Officer would provide
agronomic and organizational advice to the Chief Executive aimed at improving
efficiency in cane production and would liaise in this effort with the National
Sugar Research Institute, Agricultural Departments of the sugar companies,
cooperatives, the Sugar Settlement Scheme and such other organizations as are
assisting outgrower cane producers or are promoting cane production. The
agriculutral staff would formulate programs for improving cane growing prac-
tices, and for improving existing organizations, methods and procedures for
outgrower management, extension and research requiring national Government
support.
15.       Working with KSA's Training Officer (para. 17), the sugar companies
and training institutions, the staff would develop relevant training programs
for agricultural sugarcane extension officers. On the basis of operational
reports received and periodic visits in the field, the staff would advise the
Chief Executive on the progress of sugar research and extension programs and
recommend action if necessary, inform him of favorable developments in the
production of sugarcane and formulate programs for dissemination of infor-
mation to the industry's research and extension staff. It would also advise
Government on the agricultural aspects of new development project proposals
and assist existing companies in resolving agricultural production problems.



ANNEX 17
Page 7
Factory Technology Staff
16.       A Sugar Technologist would be responsible for providing tech-
nical assistance in the planning of new factories and the rehabilitation of
existing mills to assure that project proposals are designed for economic and
efficient processing of cane. With the cooperation of existing factories, he
would undertake studies for the overall improvement in sugar quality; for
effecting savings in operational costs through increased efficiencies in cane
yard handling systems, power-generating systems, processing systems, practical
systems for quality-based payments for cane, preventive maintenance, equipment
standardization, etc.; and formulate programs for consideration by KSA Members.
Related to these studies would be a continuing review of manpower capabilities
in coordination with KSA's Training Officer (para. 17) and Training Officers
of factories for the purpose of designing and carrying out practical training
programs for industry factory technicians. The Sugar Technologist also would
identify plant capacity utilization problems requiring national attention
and assist the companies in resolving such problems. Furthermore, he would
formulate systems for quality control of sugarcane and sugar.
Manpower Development Staff
17.       In coordination with other KSA staff and the various Training
Officers of sugar companies, KSA's Training Officer would be responsible for
formulating industry-wide programs for the development of skill levels required
by the industry. Programs would be developed jointly or separately for:
development of managerial staff in all functional
areas;
overseas scholarships in business administration and
sugar technology;
supervisory training, including subjects in effective
supervision, work measurement and simplification
methods, cost reduction techniques, etc;
agricultural extension officers' training, including
technical aspects of cane growing and husbandry,
communications and instruction techniques;
sugar technology;
craftsmanship in different specialized trades, such
as machinists, mechanics, pan boilers, tractor opera-
tors, etc; and
specialized instruction in accounting at different
levels ranging from bookkeeping to machine accounting
operations, in financial analysis, financial manage-
ment, management accounting, and budgetary and cost
controls.



ANNEX 17
Page 8
The development of these programs would take account of such relevant aspects
as timing, length of programs, number of trainees, availability of qualified
instructors and facilities, and estimated costs and possible funding. To the
maximum extent possible, KSA's Training Officer would supervise the implemen-
tation of training programs.
Marketing and Procurement
18.       Depending on the nature and extent of programs eventually developed
and authorized by the Government on procurement for the industry and possible
improvements in marketing and distribution operations, there could be a
need for a separate Marketing and Procurement staff unit in KSA that would be
responsible for implementing and/or monitoring the programs authorized by
the Government. It is not foreseen under the Project that such a unit would
be immediately established. The marketing function would, at least for the
time being, remain with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and with KNTC
(Annex 4). However, after it becomes apparent within a period of 3-4 years to
what extent KNTC's operations can be improved, the advisability of transferring
the entire marketing function to KSA would be reconsidered. In the meantime,
interaction between KSA staff and KNTC would take place which would familiarize
KSA to some extent with the area of marketing and subject present marketing
arrangements to a decisive test (para. 22).
Administrative Services Staff
19.       To be staffed with an Administrative Officer, six secretaries/
clerk typists, four drivers and three messengers, this unit would be respon-
sible for administrative support in terms of transportation, clerical, mes-
sengerial, accounting, and cashiering services.
Relationship of KSA with Other Government Agencies
20.       Some existing programs of various Ministries or agencies of the
Government affecting the sugar industry would likely continue to be admin-
istered by them. For instance, the Ministry of Works would still be the
agency that would implement construction of roads and bridges in sugar pro-
ducing areas or supervise such construction if undertaken by contractors.
The Ministry of Agriculture would continue to supervise sugarcane research.
With the cooperation of these agencies, KSA would monitor the implementation
of industry-related projects and programs. This monitoring function would
serve to keep track of the progress on development activities and assure that
completion schedules are met. There are instances, however, where the imple-
mentation of certain on-going programs could be delegated to KSA. Exten-
sion work for cane-growing farmers could be undertaken directly by the Agri-
cultural Department staff of the companies instead of some of the agencies
involved, with advice and monitoring by KSA. The Agronomist of KSA would
assist the National Sugar Research Institute in the formulation of its research
program (Annex 7).



ANNEX 17
Page 9
21.       KSA would also serve as the main body for collecting comprehensive
statistical information on sugar industry operations for use by other Govern-
ment agencies. These statistics would include volume and costs of the
production of sugar and sugarcane, sugar imports, molasses sales, sugar
sales and inventories, plant capacity utilization, fuel utilization, industry
employment, levies collected, farmers' credits, status of foreign obligations,
and such other relevant statistics as may be deemed useful.
22.       KSA would work with KNTC on programs for the improvement of exist-
ing distribution systems of sugar and sugar by-products (para. 18). Both
organizations would explore the possibility of establishing a marketing-
oriented services approach to the industry, especially for exports when
needed. Proposals would be made for Government's consideration and KNTC
would be the agency that would be responsible for implementation of auth-
orized programs, with KSA monitoring the progress of implementation.
Relationship of KSA with Sugar Companies and Farmers
23.       Sugar companies and farmers would be represented as Members
of KSA (para. 7). Upon delegation, sugar companies could be
used by the Government as the vehicle for implementing certain projects
with the KSA monitoring implementation to assure compliance with specified
guidelines. KSA would not be involved in the management of the companies.
It would, however, be available in a consulting or advisory capacity where
it would have the expertise. The companies and farmers would avail them-
selves of KSA assistance in formulating proposals for Government assistance
and use KSA as a channel of communication with Government on other matters.
The Government, through its representation on the Board of publicly-owned
companies would continue to exercise Board level management control over
those companies, but would utilize the services of KSA in independently
obtaining relevant information on the operations of the companies. Farmers
would be able to seek redress of grievances through the agricultural staff
of KSA.
Implementation of the Reorganization Proposal
24.       The proposed reorganization of KSA as described in this Annex was
accepted by Government at negotiations. It would be a condition of loan
effectiveness that Government had taken all actions necessary to expand the
membership of KSA (para. 7) and to authorize it to carry out the enlarged
functions (para. 4). It was agreed that KSA would have employed by
January 1, 1978 in addition to the Chief Executive and Economist/Statistian
already in post a Planning Officer, Financial Analyst, Agronomist, Agricul-
tural Extension Specialist, Sugar Technologist and Training Officer and
appropriate support staff.



ANNEX 17
Page 10
25.       KSA would also prepare an annual plan of operation which would
have to be consistent with the proposed objectives and functions and approved
by KSA Members. The Project provides for staff, vehicles, equipment and
operating expenses of KSA for the first five years of operation (1977-81). A
maximum of five experts would be recruited internationally, three for three
years and two for two years, should qualified local candidates be unavailable.
Draft terms of reference for these experts are attached as Appendix 1. The
Bank would be consulted on the appointment or replacement of the Planning
Officer, Agronomist and Sugar Technologist. A plan for future financing of
KSA would be prepared by July 1, 1979. Estimated Project costs are shown in
Annex 15, Table 20.
26.       It is envisaged that KSA would be required to conduct several major
studies in the near future, and the Project provides KShs. 3.1 million
(US$375,000) for this purpose. The major areas to be studied include:
(a) the utilization and marketing of molasses (and possibly other
sugar by-products) in Kenya, including alternative uses such
as alcohol production, livestock feed and export; and
(b) the development of incentive systems for cane producers, with
particular emphasis on profit sharing arrangements with sugar
companies, production bonuses, and payment for cane based on
quality.
Studies would also be required in connection with the sugar marketing improve-
ment plan to be prepared by KNTC by December 31, 1978 (Annex 4, para. 6)
for which funds could be channeled through KSA. In addition, expertise other
than that provided for in the current staffing plan is expected to be required
from time to time and would be made available through short-term consultancy
assignments or temporary appointments to the staff. Detailed outlines for
studies to be conducted and terms of reference for consultants to be engaged
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval. The Bank would also
be consulted on the appointment of consultants or additional staff.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY (KSA)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE OF KSA STAFF
Chief Executive
!.        The Chief Executive would be the chief executive officer of the
KSA. Under the policies established by KSA's Members, he would be responsible
"or the management of KSA staff in the performance of the functions of the
KSA.
Reports to: Members of KSA through its chairman.
Supervises: All KSA staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls operations of KSA in accordance
with policies and regulations established by the Members of
KSA;
Prepares proposals for long-range and annual plans and
programs affecting the sugar industry for consideration
by the Members of KSA as recommendations to Government;
Recommends policies on the sugar industry for consideration
by the Members of KSA as recommendations to Government;
Reviews periodic reports for monitoring the progress of
programs for the industry and advises KSA Members on re-
commendations for action where necessary;
Upon proper delegation, initiates special investigations
and studies and submits reports and recommendations for
consideration by the Members of KSA;
Prepares reports on KSA operations for submission to the
Members of KSA and Government;
Employs appropriate personnel in accordance with the
approved budget;
Performs such other duties as would be delegated to him.



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 2
Qualifications:
College degree, preferably in Business or Public Admin-
istration, with at least 10 years experience in manage-
ment of a government or private entity; must be familiar
with development planning for the sugar industry.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-55.
Planning Officer
2.        The Planning Officer would be responsible for the preparation of
KSA and industry investment proposals and the establishment and maintenance
of a sound industry data base.
Reports to: Chief Executive.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Prepares and keeps up to date an integrated Kenya sugar industry
development plan, and associated programs and systems, through
authorized management channels, both short-term and long-term
and consistent with Government objectives;
Prepares and evaluates specific investment proposals;
Reviews existing Government policies affecting the sugar
industry and recommends changes;
Prepares the budget and operational systems and procedures for
KSA for consideration by the Chief Etecutive and Members of
KSA, and implements approved recommendations;
Undertakes special studies as required, e.g., on the utilization
of sugar by-products, the improvement of outgrower incentives,
etc., and liaises with other institutions engaged in industry-
related activities, such as KNTC;
Together with the Financial Analyst measures industry performance
against approved plans and targets and periodically submits
performance reports to the Chief Executive;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Chief Executive.



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 3
Qualifications:
Master in Business Administration or Economics, preferably with
background in finance, accounting or operations research; he
must be familiar with the preparation of project proposals for
sugar industry. Practical experience in planning or project
analysis of 8 to 10 years.
Language Ability:
English.
Age: 35 - 45.
Financial Analyst
3.        The Financial Analyst would have the dual function of providing
financial expertise as required and serving as KSA's evalution officer.
Reports to: Chief Executive.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Reviews financial aspects of development plans and programs;
Advises KSA and the industry on the financial implications of
proposed contracts;
Advises KSA on dividend policies for sugar companies to be
recommended to Governmemt;
Assists in the preparation of financing plans for Government-
supported projects;
Identifies appropriate performance indicators, and establishes
a monitoring and evaluation system for projects and programs
undertaken in the sugar industry;
Applies and operates the monitoring and evaluation system
for ongoing projects and programs;
Develops effective communications procedures and a review
process to enable him to initiate speedy action in case
implementation difficulties are encountered;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 4
Prescribes other reporting requirements of KSA or Government
for submission by industry, subject to approval; implements
reporting system and interprets reports for the Chief Executive;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the Chief Executive.
Qualifications:
Master in Finance or Accountancy, preferably with background in
business economics; practical experience in financial work essential; ex-
perience in project analysis and evaluation desirable.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      35-45.
Agronomist
4.        The Agronomist would be responsible for promoting all aspects of
sugarcane production, with particular emphasis on the improvement of small-
holder production.
Reports to: Chief Executive.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Assists the Planning Officer in the preparation of new sugar develop-
ment projects and advises on the need and feasibility of rehabili-
tating and improving existing cane areas;
Cooperates with the Agricultural Extension Officer and Planning
Officer in efforts to continuously improve the organization of
outgrowers cane prodution;
Assists the National Sugar Research Institute in the preparation
of sugar research proposals, reviews technical reports of the
Institute and the sugar companies, and periodically evaluates the
research results achieved and compares such results with existing
needs and set targets;
Cooperates with the Planning officer in studying improvements in
cane harvesting operations in outgrower areas, including the
possibility of burning outgrowers cane;



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Page 5
Makes recommendations on the zoning of cane growing areas;
Assists the Training Officer of KSA in the preparation of programs
for the training of agronomists and agricultural engineers, and
advises the sugar companies on technical aspects related to their
agricultural training programs;
Is responsible for evaluating improved cane growing practices
recommended by the research staff and for implementation of accepted
recommendations through the Agricultural Extension Officer;
Is responsive to sugarcane growers' grievances related to cane
production or relations with the sugar companies;
Performs such other duties as are delegated to him by the Chief
Executive.
Qualifications:
Graduate degree in Agriculture, preferebly with specialization in
tropical crops production; 8-10 years practical experience in
the production of sugarcane; management experience with small
farmers desirable.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40 - 45.
Sugar Technologist
5.        The Sugar Technologist would be responsible for providing tech-
nical assistance to the Goivernment through the Members of KSA, primarily
in the planning of new factories and the maintenance and improvement of
existing factories.
Reports to:    Chief Executive.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Advises on the planning of new sugar factories, and maintenance,
rehabilitation or improvement of existing factories;
Prepares studies on improving product quality; cost-reduction;
equipment standardization; quality-based payment systems for
cane; quality control for sugar and sugarcane, and prepares
programs for consideration by the Members of KSA;



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Page 6
Assists in the implementation and monitoring of Government-
authorized programs for factory improvements;
Reviews technical reports of factories and advises Members
of KSA on action required to correct off-line situations
such as under-utilization of capacity; frequent breakdowns,
etc.
Assists the Training Officer of KSA in the preparation of
programs for training of factory technicians;
Performs such other duties as may be delegated to him by
the Chief Executive.
Qualifications:
Graduate in Mechnical Engineering or Chemical Engineering
and Sugar Technology with at least ten years practical
experience in sugar factory operations; must be familiar
with design of sugar factory.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:     40 - 45.
Training Officer
6.        The Training Officer would be in charge of developing and
implementing programs for staff training in the sugar industry.
Reports to: Chief Executive.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Prepares overall inventory of manpower development require-
ments of industry on a long-range basis, together with
current and planned programs of individual companies;
Determines capabilities of existing Government and pri-
vate educational institutions for meeting industry's
specific requirements;
Formulates programs of manpower development for consideration
by the Members of KSA to cover all aspects of industry
functional areas;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 7
Assists in implementation and monitoring of Government
programs for manpower development for the industry;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to
him by the Chief Executive.
Qualifications:
Graduate in Industrial Management with specialization in
Personnel Management and Training; he must have at least
eight years practical experience in the development and
conduct of training programs for industry.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 18
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
Introduction
1.        The underlying concept of the proposed Company organization is
one which forms an integrated operation of all agricultural, processing and
administrative activities under centralized management. With the major
portion of the factory's supply of sugarcane grown by independent farmers, it
is essential that an organization properly equipped, staffed and managed be
available to render the required extension services, materials, credits and
related services to the farmers, to assure a sufficient and timely supply of
sugarcane. Consequently, the agricultural staff of the Company would be
responsible not only for cane production at its own nucleus estate, but also
for providing for their account integrated services to outgrowers in accor-
dance with "contract growing" arrangements to be mutually agreed on between
the Company and the individual farmers. These arrangements would be patterned
after those in effect at Mumias where the farmer agrees to make a specified
area owned by him available for cane-growing under close company supervision.
2.        The Company's factory staff would be organized along the lines
of three distinct operational activities: engineering, processing and opera-
tional control. Unlike the factory organization structure of most of the
existing sugar mills in Kenya, the proposed organization combines the mill,
electrical and civil engineering functions into an engineering division. This
division would be responsible for cane yard operation, mechanical extraction
of cane juice from the crushers to the stage when the juice enters the chemi-
cal processing phase, and for maintenance and repairs. The processing divi-
sion would be responsible for chemical processing activities from juice
clarification to the bagging station. The control division would be estab-
lished as a unit separate from the engineering and processing divisions with
responsibility for quality control and compilation of necessary operational
data on production.
3.        The Company's finance and administrative staff would be responsi-
ble for all financial and administrative aspects of Company operations,
including financial planning, financial accounting, operational cost control
and general administrative services. Staff concerned with personnel adminis-
tration would have responsibility for recruitment, testing, interviews,
salary and wage administration, industrial relations and training as well as
medical, security and employee welfare activities. The proposed organiza-
tional structure of the Company is depicted in Chart World Bank - 16462.
4.        While the Company would be eventually organized as described in
this Annex, there would be some variation of the structure during the pre-
operating period. The agricultural staff would already be organized as in



ANNEX 18
Page 2
the operating stage with agricultural operations starting ahead of the actual
start-up date of factory operations. The factory staff would, however, be
organized differently during construction. The qualified and experienced
engineers to be employed from the outset and absorbed into the factory organi-
zation proper at a later date, would be initially responsible for assuring
contractors' compliance with contract terms, specifications and schedules
and monitoring the progress of various construction activities and providing
the necessary certification of accomplishment that may be required for dis-
bursement procedures.
Detailed Features of the Proposed Organization
5.        The South Nyanza Sugar Company, Ltd., has been incorporated under
the Companies Act of Kenya. The governing body is a Board of Directors
with responsibility for the formulation and execution of Company policies.
The Board is to plan, direct and supervise operational activities as carried
out by the Company's Managing Agent, who is represented on the Board and acts
through a General Manager to be selected in consultation with the Board
(para. 38).
6.        The General Manager would be responsible for Company management
in accordance with policies, objectives, plans and programs established
by the Board. Specifically, he would have responsibility for meeting
production volume and quality targets; maintaining financial liquidity
and solvency; developing required manpower; safeguarding and properly
maintaining Company property; developing and maintaining harmonious rela-
tionships with the Kenya Sugar Authority and other Government authorities
and with the communities within the boundaries of the production zone.
He would be assisted in these functions by four main functional depart-
ments of the Company, namely, the Agricultural, Factory, Finance and
Administration and Personnel and Industrial Relations Departments. The
Departments' organization is described below.
The Agricultural Department
7.        This Department, to be headed by a Department Manager reporting
to the General Manager would have overall responsibility for:
producing cane economically in the nucleus estate and the
outgrowers areas in accordance with Company-established
plans and programs;
maintaining prescribed field management standards in
nucleus estate and outgrowers' areas;



ANNEX 18
Page 3
determining ways and means for economically improving
productivity of cane-growing areas;
providing appropriate materials and services to outgrowers
in accordance with contract-growing arrangements;
harvesting and transporting cane economically for the
nucleus estate and outgrowers areas in accordance with
predetermined schedules;
safeguarding and maintaining farm machinery and equipment
in accordance with prescribed preventive maintenance and
repair standards;
Department staff development;
maintaining harmonious relations with outgrowers; and
coordinating functions with other Company departments and
periodically advising the General Manager of significant
developments in the Department's operations.
These functions would be carried out by three main operating Divisions
and two Staff Units reporting to the Department manager, namely, the
Nucleus Estates, Outgrowers, and Agricultural Services Divisions and
the Research and Administrative Services Staff Units (Chart World Bank -
16464).
8.        The Nucleus Estates Division.  To be headed by a Division Manager,
reporting to the Agricultural Department Manager, this Division would be
directly responsible for the growing of sugarcane in the nucleus estate
in accordance with established plans, programs and field management standards.
Utilizing the services of the Agricultural Services Division, the Nucleus
Estates Division would assure that land is prepared and cultivated in pro-
grammed areas as scheduled. This Division would be responsible for growing
seed cane for its own planting purposes; planting designated areas as
scheduled; carrying out proper field maintenance procedures such as ferti-
lizer applications, weeding, etc.; preventing or controlling pests, diseases
and fire; and instituting such other protective measures against controllable
hazards as would be necessary for improved cane growth and productivity in the
nucleus estate area. In accordance with predetermined harvesting schedules,
the Division would initiate cane harvesting in the nucleus estate area,
utilizing the services of the Agricultural Services Division. In coordina-
tion with the Personnel and Industrial Relations Department, the Division
would assure that proper health and sanitation standards are maintained
in the nucleus estate housing areas for the prevention of communicable
diseases.
9.        For administrative purposes, the nucleus estate would be divided
into three geographical sections with approximately 880 hectares each to be
assigned to a Section Supervisor. Each supervisor would be responsible for



ANNEX 18
Page 4
the Division's functions in his assigned area. Four overseers and five to
six headmen would be assisting each Section Supervisor. The headmen would be
relatively junior staff but performing similar functions as the overseers.
The Division Manager and Section Supervisors would be responsible for comply-
ing with prescribed administrative procedures for periodically reporting
essential operational and financial data for purposes of cost control.
10.       The Outgrowers Division.  To be headed by a Division Manager,
reporting to the Agricultural Department MIanager, this Division would be
directly responsible for the growing of sugarcane in the outgrowers area
in accordance with established plans, programs, field management standards,
and the provisions of contract-growing arrangements with individual farmers.
This Division would initiate the survey, preparation, and cultivation of
individual outgrowers' fields as programmed, utilizing the services of
the Agricultural Services Division. The Outgrowers Division would be
responsible for the growing of seed cane in farmers' fields in each of
the four sectional areas to supply outgrowers in those respective areas.
It would purchase seed cane grown in farmers' fields, treat the seed cane
and distribute it for planting.
11.       The Division would instruct and supervise the outgrowers in
the proper care and maintenance of growing cane, provide prescribed ferti-
lizers, and herbicides, and supervise the application of inputs. The cost
of all supplies and services would be recoverable from the farmer at
harvest time, as stipulated in the individual contracts. In the event
a farmer is unable to comply with prescribed care and maintenance proce-
dures in his field, the Division would initiate undertaking such services,
utilizing staff of the Agricultural Services Division, if necessary, with
the costs to be borne by the farmer. The Division also would be responsible
for disease and fire prevention and control, and such other protective measures
as would be necessary against controllable hazards. In accordance with
predetermined harvesting schedules, the Division would advise the outgrowers
concerned and arrange with the Agricultural Services Division for the cutting,
loading and hauling of the cane to the factory. To minimize harvesting costs,
the Division's staff would investigate the possibility of permitting the
burning of outgrowers' cane under Company supervision on blocks of land where,
in the judgement of Company staff, cane fires would not pose any environmental
risks. The Division would be responsible for maintaining a harmonious and
cooperative relationship with the outgrowers.
12.       For administrative purposes, the outgrowers area would be divided
into four geographical sections with approximately 4,000 hectares each of
cane area or 18,500 hectares of gross area, to be assigned to an Agricul-
tural Supervisor. Each supervisor would be responsible for carrying out
the Division's functions in his assigned area. Two overseers and two
headmen would be assisting each Agricultural Supervisor. The Division
Manager and Agricultural Supervisors would be responsible for complying
with prescribed administrative procedures for periodically reporting
essential operational and financial data for purposes of cost control,
especially those affecting materials and services supplied to the out-
growers, for billing purposes.



ANNEX 18
Page 5
13.       The Agricultural Services Division.  To be headed by a Division
Manager, reporting to the Agricultural Department Manager, this Division
would be directly responsible for land surveying, clearing, and preparation;
road construction and maintenance; cane harvesting and transport services
for the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas; operation of a central motor
pool for all Company motor vehicles; and maintenance and repairs of Company-
owned farm machinery, implements, motor vehicles, and housing. In coordina-
tion with the Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers Divisions, the Division Manager
would plan, direct and control the service operations to assure that all
requirements are met as programmed, in accordance with prescribed policies,
standards, and Company procedures. He would operate the Division economi-
cally and assure that maximum utilization standards of equipment are
attained and that services are properly charged to users. Pertinent records
of equipment operating costs would be kept and appropriate schedules for
equipment replacement prepared. The Division Manager would be assisted
in these functions by four functional sections, namely, the Construction,
Harvesting, Transport and Workshop Sections, and by a Division Staff Office.
14.       The Construction Section, headed by a Section Supervisor, would
consist of the Survey Unit, the Land Preparation Unit, and the Road Con-
struction and Maintenance Unit, with the Survey Unit assisting the other
two units in surveying cane fields and roads and tracks, respectively,
to determine the exact boundaries, areas and alignments. The minimum size
of contiguous cane area to be serviced by the Company would be 10 ha.
Since individual farmers have generally less land than this, they would
have to make arrangements for neighboring lots to be consolidated to
reach the minimum acceptable size, requiring extensive surveying. At
the request of the Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers Divisions, the Land
Preparation Unit would undertake clearing, land preparation and cultivation
of nucleus estate and outgrowers areas. The cost of these services and of
land surveying would be for the account of the Nucleus Estates Division
or the individual outgrower concerned and proper records would be kept
for billing purposes. The Road Construction and Maintenance Unit would
undertake work for the Company's account based on job orders authorized
by the Department Manager.
15.       The Harvesting Section would be headed by a Section Supervisor
and be responsible for the cutting of cane in nucleus estate and outgrowers
areas. The cost of such services would be for the respective accounts.
The Section would be staffed with nine overseers who would take direct
charge of gangs of cane cutters in the fields.
16.       The Transport Section would be responsible for the transportation
of cane from the fields to the factory at the request of the Nucleus
Estates and Outgrowers Divisions. It would also be responsible for the
operation of a central Motor Pool for servicing personnel transport needs
of various departments of the Company. All Company motor vehicles would
be subject to control in a common pool and dispatched for use only on the
basis of authorized trip tickets. The Section's Cane Transport Unit would
have the necessary complement of overseers and headmen, drivers and turn-
boys, while the Motor Pool would have drivers only. All drivers would be



ANNEX 18
Page 6
responsible for the necessary preventive maintenance checks of their
vehicles or transport units and would report the need for repairs to the
Section Supervisor who would authorize service requests to the Workshop
Section.
17.       The Workshop Section would be responsible for maintenance and
repairs of all Company-owned farm machinery and equipment, cane transport
vehicles, motor cars and housing units. The cost of repairs would be
charged to the entity concerned for cost control purposes. To be headed
by a Section Supervisor, this Section would be staffed by a necessary
complement of mechanics, electricians, fitters, welders, blacksmiths,
carpenters, a mason, and a toolkeeper.
18.       There would also be a Division Staff Office, to be headed by
an Office Supervisor who would report to the Division Manager and be
responsible for all administrative aspects of the Division. These would
include assisting the Division in the compilation of administrative and
cost control reports for submission to the Department and in the prepara-
tion of its annual budget. The office would also handle trip tickets
authorizing dispatch of vehicles from the Motor Pool.
19.       The Research Staff Unit.  This unit, to be headed by an Agronomist,
reporting to the Agricultural Department Manager, would be responsible for
the agricultural research and experimental activities of the Company.
It would have trial fields in various locations and be responsible for
liaison and coordination with KSA and the National Sugar Research Institute
and for advising staff in the Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers Divisions on
the results of experiments. The unit would carry out the necessary maturity
tests for cane in various areas using the facilities of the Control Division
of the Factory Department for laboratory analysis and inform the Nucleus
Estates and Outgrowers Divisions of impendent harvesting dates. The work
force would consist of an assistant agronomist and three overseers, with
the necessary complement of laborers.
20.       The Administrative Services Staff.  To be headed by an Adminis-
trative Officer reporting to the Agricultural Department Manager, the
Administrative Services Staff would perform administrative duties, review
and compile prescribed reports from the field divisions, assist in bud-
getary preparations, and attend to all clerical work in the Department.
The Factory Department
21.       This Department, to be headed by a Department Manager reporting
to the General Manager would have overall responsibility for:
operating the factory efficiently to process cane received
from the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas into sugar of a
quality in accordance with Company-prescribed standards;



ANNEX 18
Page 7
maintaining the factory in excellent operating condition
through proper maintenance in order to maximize utilization
of plant capacity;
applying adequate procedures for maintaining a high level of
industrial safety in coordination with the Personnel and
Industrial Relations Department;
complying with Government-prescribed regulations and standards
applicable to food processing industries;
developing capabilities of department employees and promoting
industrial peace;
coordinating functions with other Departments and periodically
advising the General Manager of significant developments in the
Department's operations.
The functions of the Department would be carried out by three main Divisions,
namely, the Engineering, Processing and Control Divisions (Chart World Bank -
16465). Each of the Divisions would be geared to operate three shifts a
day. The three main Divisions would be distinct responsibility centers,
each with a clear functional specialization.
22.       The Engineering Division.  To be headed by a Chief Engineer
reporting to the Factory Department Manager, this Division would be
responsible for the mechanical phase of factory operations, including
unloading the cane at the cane yard, feeding the cane into the mill, crush-
ing, and extracting the juice. It would also operate the boiler plant
and electrical powerhouse for generating the required power. In order to
minimize production interruptions due to plant shutdowns, the Division
would have control over the factory's electrical, mechanical and civil engi-
neering maintenance personnel. In coordination with the Personnel and
Industrial Relations Department, the Division would arrange for external
staff training programs and for implementing effective methods of on-the-job
instruction. It would also formulate industrial safety procedures.
23.       There would be four Sections of the Division, namely, the Milling
Section and the Electrical, Mechanical, and Civil Engineering Sections. The
Milling Section would be in charge of operating the cranes for unloading the
cane, feeding the cane to the mill, running the mill, and generating steam
power. The other three Sections would operate the electrical utilities and
perform the maintenance and repair tasks. Each of the stations in the mill,
namely cane yard, crushing, boiler and boiling house equipment would be manned
by shift crews of machine operators or tenders. The utilities maintenance
Sections would also have crews on hand for each shift not only for carrying
out routine inspection and preventive maintenance but also to handle emergency
repairs when necessary so that stoppages would be minimized. During annual
shutdowns, both the machine operator crews under the shift engineers and the
utilities and maintenance crews would be utilized for undertaking repairs.



ANNEX 18
Page 8
24.       The Processing Division.  To be headed by a Processing Superin-
tendent reporting to the Factory Department Manager, this Division would be
responsible for the chemical processing operations of the plant from the
point where the juice enters the clarifiers and evaporators, to crystalliza-
tion, curing and centrifugals and the bagging station where the sugar is
packed and transferred to the warehouse, and for the operation of the water
supply and effluent treatment systems. There would be four distinct stations,
namely, the Clarification/Evaporation, Crystallization, Curing/Centrifugation
and Bagging Stations. Since the quality of the finished product depends not
only on the performance of the equipment at this stage of manufacture but
also on the efficiency of the operators manning each station, personnel with
adequate training and practical experience would be required to man each
station. Each of the stations would be headed by a foreman reporting to the
Processing Superintendent through an Assistant Superintendent.
25.       The Division would carry out effective on-the-job training, espe-
cially since in this area of plant operations there is no substitute for
practical experience. It would also be responsible for maintaining health
and sanitation standards and for observing industrial safety procedures.
The training and safety programs would be coordinated with the Personnel
and Industrial Relations Department.
26.       The Control Division.  To be headed by a Chief Chemist reporting
to the Factory Department Manager, this Division would be responsible for
quality control. In accordance with standard procedures, it would periodi-
cally analyze cane juice at specific stages of the process to determine
the quality of cane and juice and the efficiency in processing, and
immediately suggest adjustments to be made for improving quality if
necessary. It would compile the required production volume and quality
statistics for reporting purposes, including cata on cane received, juice
extracted, sugar bagged, molasses produced, ard on recoveries and losses.
The Division would be staffed with assistant chemists, laboratory techni-
cians, scalemen for measuring cane and juice, and clerks recording produc-
tion at the bagging station.
27.       The Factory Office.  To be headed by an Administrative Assistant
reporting to the Factory Department Manager, this staff unit would be
responsible for handling all administrative matters of the Department,
including the preparation of reports on factory operations for submission
to the General Manager and other Departments, especially the Finance and
Administration Department. It would keep time, process requests for
materials, assist the Divisions in the preparation of annual budgetary
plans, and support the Engineering Division in the preparation of drawings
and specifications.
The Finance and Administration Department
28.       To be headed by a Controller reporting to the General Manager,
this Department would be responsible for:



ANNEX 18
Page 9
preparing consolidated operational and financial plans for
the Company in coordination with the various operating and
service departments;
compiling prescribed operational and financial data and
preparing periodic reports on Company operations; advising
the General Manager and other department managers on financial
matters;
keeping records of cash, property, supplies and finished
products;
receiving, safekeeping, and verifying disbursement requests
and disbursing cash for authorized Company expenditures;
ordering, receiving, storing and issuing materials,
supplies and equipment required by various departments;
obtaining and maintaining adequate insurance coverage for
Company properties and assets against loss or damage from
insurable risks;
negotiating Company credit lines with banking institutions,
subject to authority delegated by the General Manager and
the Board;
reviewing systems and procedures and initiating improvements
regarding computational accuracy and administrative efficiency;
maintaining corporate financial liquidity and solvency through
prudent control over Company cash flows.
These functions would be carried out by two staff officers (Assistant
Controller and Budget Officer, and Auditing Officer) and three Divisions,
namely, the Administration/Finance, General Accounting, and Cost Accounts
Divisions (Chart World Bank - 16466).
29.       The Assistant Controller's and Budget Office.  The Assistant Con-
troller and Budget Officer would, under the responsibility of the Controller,
coordinate the annual budgeting process with the cooperation of all other
Company Departments. This process would involve the preparation of crop
estimates for both the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas on the basis of
areas available for plant and ratoon cane, and estimated yields together
with the required inputs, materials, supplies, services, and manpower. On
hand of these estimates, all other Divisions in the Agricultural and Fac-
tory Departments would prepare their own operational plans and programs.
The physical estimates so established would be costed with the assistance
of the Cost Accounts and General Accounting Divisions, and the results con-
solidated and used to prepare projections of income, assets and liabilities,



ANNEX 18
Page 10
cash flows, operational expenditures, purchasing requirements, manpower re-
quirements, and such other supporting data and forecasts as would be needed.
Major capital expenditure proposals would have to be accompanied by an eco-
nomic returns justification where applicable. The timing of materials re-
quirements would be indicated for use in the scheduling of purchases. Be-
sides his involvement in the budgetary process, the Assistant Controller
and Budget Officer would be responsible for financial analysis of the opera-
tions and for systems reviews and for forumulating such changes in systems
and methods as would make data processing more efficient and the information
generated more useful for managerial purposes. He would also prepare the
systems and methods for the computation of charges for services rendered to
outgrowers, such as land preparation, extension, harvesting and transport.
The method would arrive at rates to be charged farmers allowing full re-
covery of costs by the Company.
30.       The Auditing Office.  The Auditing Officer reporting directly to
the Controller would be responsible for conducting auditing programs relating
to any number of subjects to be examined, such as account records, legal and
fiscal books, operating procedures, inventory valuations, purchases, cash and
bank transactions, fixed asset controls, payrolls, account receivables, cost
systems, and follow-up where corrective action is to be taken.
31.       The Administration/Finance Division.  To be headed by an Adminis-
trative Officer reporting to the Controller, and subdivided into three
functional areas dealing with Finance, Materials and General Services,
this Division would be responsible for receipt, custody or safekeeping,
issuance or disbursement of cash, materials and supplies, sugar and
molasses, and for purchases of materials and supplies, the ordering of
equipment, arranging insurance coverage, etc. The Division would operate
a central storeroom that would be responsible for all Company requirements
of materials and supplies including fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides,
spares, tires, fuel, lubricants, lime, sulphur, office supplies, etc.
It would also be responsible for sugar and molasses inventories transferred
from the Factory Department to storage.
32.       General Accounting Division.  To be headed by a Chief Accountant
reporting to the Controller, this Division would be responsible for all
general accounts and accounts payable entries necessary for recording and
reporting the financial transactions of the Company. It would also handle
review and verification of all vouchers for payment including invoices
and documents received from suppliers of equipment, materials and services,
or related to purchases of cane from outgrowers, sale of sugar and molasses
and other financial transactions. The review of vouchers would be made
to determine their accuracy, validity in terms of authority to incur such
expenses, prices agreed on, as to whether materials or services for which
payment is claimed have actually been received, and to assign the appropriate
account classifications for accounting entry. The Division would keep the
necessary subsidiary ledgers to provide ready determination of proper
breakdowns of receivables, payables, properties and equipment acquired,



ANNEX 18
Page 11
materials and supplies inventories and expense breakdowns for operations
other than for the Factory and Agricultural Departments which would be
kept by the Cost Accounts Division.
33.       The Cost Accounts Division.  To be headed by a Cost Accountant
reporting to the Controller, this Division would be responsible for keeping
subsidiary records of costs and expenses incurred by the Factory and Agri-
cultural Departments and for the preparation of prescribed operational
cost control reports for management use. These reports and the underlying
systems and procedures would provide relevant information on the cost of
cane production and sugar manufacturing by main responsibility centers.
Proper comparisons would be made of cost breakdowns with budgets and other
standards to enable management concerned to identify areas requiring their
attention. The Division would also handle the necessary labor distribution
and materials distribution analyses to facilitate accounting classification
for charging the responsibility centers concerned. Furthermore, it would
be responsible for the preparation of payrolls for the Factory and Agri-
cultural Departments on the basis of time and attendance records submitted
by these Departments. These payrolls would be checked by the General
Accounting Division, and actual payouts would be made by the Administration/
Finance Division.
The Personnel and Industrial Relations Department
34.       To be headed by a Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager
reporting to the General Manager, this Department would be responsible for:
recruiting personnel for the various Company departments;
keeping relevant records of personnel;
formulating, recommending and implementing Company personnel
policies including salary, wage and benefits administration;
complying with Government laws and regulations affecting
agricultural and industrial labor;
promoting programs designed to attain high levels of
employee morale, maintain industrial peace with Company
employees, and enhance harmonious relationships with out-
growers in coordination with other Departments;
administering Company employee welfare programs;
maintaining adequate security, health and industrial safety
standards in coordination with other Company Departments;
formulating, recommending and carrying out career development
programs for Company staff in coordination with the Kenya
Sugar Authority and other Company Departments.
These functions would be carried out by the Personnel Administration,
Industrial Relations and Training Offices (Chart World Bank - 16467).



ANNEX 18
Page 12
35.       The Personnel Administration Office.  To be headed by a Personnel
Officer reporting to the Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager, this
office would be responsible for the recruitment of personnel for the
various Departments through processing, testing and advance interviewing
of applicants before they are referred to the requisitioning Departments
for selection and approval. It would keep relevant personnel records and
be responsible for formulating and recommending policies on salary and wage
administration; preparing job descriptions for different positions; rating
positions based on such factors as experience, education, responsibilities
and working conditions; determining salary grades; and ranking of employees.
36.       The Industrial Relations Office.  To be headed by an Industrial
Relations Officer reporting to the Personnel and Industrial Relations
Manager, the Industrial Relations Office would be responsible for assuring
Company compliance with labor laws and regulations; attending to labor
union matters; and administering Company policies and programs on medical
security and safety, and employee welfare matters. Specifically, this
office would represent the Company in meetings with union representatives
on matters concerning labor union requests or demands, employee grievances
or programs for improving employee morale and productivity. It would also
be responsible for meeting the health and sanitation needs of employees
in the factory as well as the housing complex; implementing programs for
security and safety of Company premises, and the nucleus estate and out-
growers areas; and initiating recreational, educational, cultural and
sportive programs, and such other activities as would contribute to
the promotion of a high level of staff morale.
37.       The Training Office.  The staff of one training officer and a
general clerk, reporting to the Personnel and Industrial Relations
Manager, would be responsible for formulating and administering career
development programs for Company personnel in coordination with the
Kenya Sugar Authority's Training Officer and cther Company Departments.
The training programs would be based on an inventory of individual
staff in each Department and identification and quantification of
training needs of each. Training schedules would be prepared at
the beginning of each year specifying the objectives and nature of
each program, the participants, frequency and length of programs,
instructors and facilities required, and estimated costs of the
program for review by Company management. Approved programs would be
funded by sufficient budgetary appropriations which could be partly
recovered from the industrial training fund levy.
Management and Staffing
38.       The operation of the South Nyanza Stgar Company, with both
agricultural and factory activities combined in one entity, requires
management and technicians of high caliber and with considerable expe-
rience, which is presently not available in Kenya. An agreement has
been reached, therefore, with The Mehta Group International, Ltd., an



ANNEX 18
Page 13
experienced international firm, to manage the Company from its initial
years up to the point when Kenyans have attained sufficient experience to
assume managerial and technical positions initially filled by internationally
recruited staff (Annex 11). The management team would include the General
Manager and a complement of key second-level personnel such as the Agricul-
tural, Factory, and Finance and Administration Department Managers. The
Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager would be hired locally as this
position requires a person who is thoroughly familiar with the character of
the people, their personal attitudes and motivations, customs and traditions,
and with Kenyan laws and regulations affecting labor in agricultural and
industrial sectors. Selected management staff at the middle levels and
certain technical positions requiring highly specialized training and prac-
tical experience, estimated to number 32, would also have to be recruited
abroad. A list of these positions is provided in Annex 14. The Kenya
Sugar Authority and the Ministry of Labor would assist in recruiting local
staff. In order to avoid possible problems in the relationship with exist-
ing factories, whose cooperation would be required for apprenticeship train-
ing arrangements, the Company would entertain applications of candidates
from existing factories only with the appropriate prior clearance from
them. There is a likelihood that no more than 10% of staffing requirements
could be met from existing factories without unduly affecting their opera-
tions. An extensive program of training would be organized to supply the
balance of trained staff (Annex 14). Brief descriptions of the duties,
responsibilities and qualifications of key staff are presented in Appendix 1.
The Bank would be consulted in the appointment of the General Manager, the
Controller, and the managers of the Agricultural Department, Factory Depart-
ment and Personnel and Industrial Relations Department. It would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness that the General Manager, Controller and Agri-
cultural Department Manager had been appointed.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR COMPANY STAFF
General Manager
1.        The General Manager would be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company.
Report to:   Board of Directors.
Supervises: Agricultural, Factory, Finance and Administration and
Personnel and Industrial Relations Department.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Prepares Company plans and programs for Board approval;
Directs and controls operations of Departments and units
to assure that Company plans on production volume, sugar-
cane and sugar quality standards and profit plans are
achieved;
Maintains harmonious relations with KSA, Government auth-
orities, communities within the boundaries of the production
zone and with Company employees and outgrowers;
Represents the Company in dealings with Government, trade
associations, Unions and private parties;
Keeps the Board of Directors informed of Company operations.
Qualifications:
College degree in Business Administration, Industrial
Management, Sugar Technology or Agriculture with at least
10 to 15 years practical experience in managing a sugar
factory with a plantation.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-50.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 2
Agricultural Department Manager
2.        The Agricultural Department Manager would have direct responsibility
for the agricultural operations both of the Company's nucleus estate and in
the outgrowers area.
Reports to: General Manager.
Supervises: Nucleus Estates, Outgrowers, and Agricultural Services
Division Managers.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Produces cane in the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas in
the most economical fashion possible in accordance with Com-
pany-established plans and programs;
Maintains prescribed field management standards;
Determines ways for economically improving productivity of
cane-growing areas;
Provides appropriate materials and extension services to out-
growers in accordance with contract growing arrangements, and
maintains harmonious relationships with them;
Harvests sugarcane in the nucleus estate and outgrowers areas
and transports it economically to the factory in accordance
with predetermined schedules;
Safeguards and maintains farm machinery and equipment in
accordance with prescribed preventive maintenance and repair
standards;
Develops the capabilities of Department employees and promotes
good labor relations;
Coordinates functions with other Company Departments and peri-
odically advises the General Manager of significant developments
in the Department's operations.
Qualifications:
Graduate of Agriculture with at least 10 years experience in
the management of a large plantation; preferably in sugarcane.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      45-50.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 3
Factory Department Manager
3.        The Factory Department Manager would have direct responsibility
for the factory operations.
Reports to: General Manager.
Supervises: Chief Engineer, Processing Superintendent, Chief Chemist,
and Administrative Assistant.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Operates the factory efficiently to process the cane received
from the nucleus estate and outgrowers area into sugar in
accordance with Company-prescribed standards and in compliance
with Government-prescribed regulations and standards for food-
processing industries;
Maintains the factory in excellent operating condition to
achieve maximum utilization of plant capacity, subject to the
availability of cane supply;
Carries out organized systems and procedures to maintaining
industrial safety;
Develops capabilities of Department employees through practi-
cal training programs in cooperation with the Training Officer
of the Personnel and Industrial Relations Department; maintains
high level of employee morale;
Coordinates functions with the other Company Departments;
Keeps the General Manager informed of significant developments
in factory operations;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the General Manager.
Qualifications
College education in Mechanical Engineering with Sugar Technol-
ogy degree and at least 10 years experience in the management
of a sugar factory.
Language Ability
English.
Age:      40-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 4
Finance and Administration Department
Controller
4.        The Controller would have direct responsibility for the operations
of the Finance and Administration Department.
Reports to: General Manager.
Supervises: Assistant Controller and Budget Officer, Administrative
Officer, Chief Accountant and Cost Accountant.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Prepares consolidated operational and financial plans for the
Company in coordination with the various operating and service
Departments;
Compiles prescribed operational and financial data and prepares
periodic reports on Company operations; advises General Manager
and other Department managers on financial matters;
Keeps records of cash, property, supplies and finished goods;
Receives and assures the safekeeping of cash, verifies disburse-
ment of vouchers and pays authorized Company expenditures;
Orders, receives, stores and issues materials and supplies
required by the various Departments;
Obtains and maintains adequate insurance coverage for Company
properties and assets against loss or damage from insurable
risks;
Negotiates Company credit lines with banking institutions sub-
ject to authority delegated by the General Manager and the Board;
Maintains corporate financial liquidity and solvency through
prudent control over Company cash flows;
Reviews systems and procedures and initiates improvements for
accuracy and efficiency;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the General Manager.
Qualifications:
College degree in Business Administration, preferably a
chartered accountant with at least 10 years practical
experience as Financial Manager or Controller of a medium
to large business enterprise.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 5
Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager
5.        The Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager would have direct
responsibility for the operations of the Personnel and Industrial Relations
Department.
Reports to: General Manager.
Supervises: Personnel, Industrial Relations, and Training Officers.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Recruits Company personnel;
Keeps relevant records of personnel;
Formulates, recommends and implements Company policies on
personnel, including salary and wage administration;
Complies with Government laws and regulations affecting
agricultural and industrial labor;
Promotes programs designed to attain high levels of employee
morale, maintain good labor relations, and enhance harmonious
relationships with outgrowers;
Administers Company employee welfare programs;
Maintains high security, health and industrial safety standards;
Formulates, recommends and carries out career development pro-
grams for Company staff in cooperation with the KSA and with
other Company Departments;
Performs such other duties as may be delegated to him by the
General Manager.
Qualifications:
College degree in Business Administration, majoring in Personnel
Administration; must have at least 8 years practical experience
as Personnel Manager for a medium-sized business; must be
sufficiently familiar with current laws and regulations of the
Government of Kenya affecting agricultural and industrial labor.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix I
Page 6
Nucleus Estates Division Manager
6.        The Nucleus Estates Division Manager would be directly responsible
for the operations of the Nucleus Estates Division.
Reports to: Agricultural Department Mlanager.
Supervises: Three Section Supervisors.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Grows cane in the nucleus estate area in accordance with
Company-established plans, programs and field management
standards;
Prepares and cultivates land in programmed areas using the
services of the Agricultural Services Division;
Grows seed cane in nurseries for the purpose of planting on
the nucleus estate;
Carries out proper field maintenance procedures such as
fertilizer applications, weeding, ridging, pest control, etc.
Carries out procedures for fire, disease and pest prevention
and control;
Initiates harvesting in the nucleus estate as -programmed;
Maintains proper health and sanitation standards in estate
housing areas in coordination with the Personnel and Industrial
Relations Department;
Complies with prescribed administrative procedures for the
periodic reporting of essential Division operational and
financial data for the purposes of cost control;
Performs such other duties as may be delegated to him by the
Agricultural Department M4anager.
Qualifications:
Degree in Agriculture with at least 8 years practical experience
in agricultural management, preferably in sugarcane growing.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      35-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix I
Page 7
Outgrowers Division Manager
7.        The Outgrowers Division Manager would be directly responsible for
the operations of the Outgrowers Division.
Reports to:  Agricultural Department Manager.
Supervises: Four Section Supervisors and all other agricultural extension
staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Has direct responsibility for growing cane in the outgrowers
area in accordance with Company-established plans and programs,
accepted field management standards, and provisions of existing
contract-growing arrangements with individual farmers;
Initiates the surveying, preparation and cultivation of individ-
ual outgrowers' fields as programmed, utilizing the services of
the Agricultural Services Division;
Arranges for the growing of seed cane in outgrowers' plots and
purchases, treats and distributes the seed cane to outgrowers;
Renders extension services to outgrowers and carries out for the
farmers' account weeding and other maintenance procedures if
outgrowers fail to do so;
Arranges for harvesting and transporting outgrowers' cane in
accordance with predetermined schedules, using the services of
the Agricultural Services Division;
Mlaintains harmonious and cooperative relationships with outgrowers;
Complies with prescribed administrative procedures for the
periodic reporting of essential Division operational and financial
data for purposes of cost control;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Agricultural Department Manager.
Qualifications:
Degree in Agriculture with at least 8 years practical ex-
perience in sugarcane husbandry and in agricultural extension
work involving small farmers.
Language Ability:
English and Kenyan language and dialects in South Nyanza District.
Age:      40-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 3
Agricultural Services Division Manager
8.        This Division Manager would be directly responsible for the
operations of the Agricultural Services Division.
Reports to:  Agricultural Department M4anager.
Supervises: Construction, Harvesting, Transport and Workshop Section
Supervisors and the Office Supervisor in the Division
Staff Office.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls operations of various sections
to assure that requirements for land surveys, clearing, prepara-
tion, road construction and maintenance, cultivation, cane
harvesting and transportation services are met as programmed,
in accordance with prescribed policies, standards and procedures,
in coordination with the Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers Divisions;
Schedules maximum utilization and economic operation of equipment;
Maintains Company equipment in accordance with Company-prescribed
standards of preventive maintenance and repair;
Complies with prescribed administrative procedures for the
periodic reporting of essential operational and financial informa-
tion for the purpose of cost control;
Complies with Government and Company regulations on traffic safety
in the operation of tractors and transport equipment;
Performs such other duties as may be delegated to him by the
Agricultural Department Manager.
Qualifications:
Degree in Agricultural Engineering with at least 8 years practi-
cal experience in the operation and maintenance of agricultural
machinery and transport equipment in a sugar plantation.
Language Ability:
English.
Age.      40-45.
Agronomist
9.        The Agronomist would be directly in charga of the Research Staff
Unit in the Agricultural Department.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 9
Reports to: Agricultural Department Manager.
Supervises: Assistant Agronomist.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls the operations of the unit covering
applied research work such as variety and fertilizer trials,
and experiments on cane husbandry;
Carries out hot water treatment of seed cane for use in nucleus
estate and outgrowers areas;
Advises the Agricultural Department Manager, Nucleus Estates
and Outgrowers Division Managers on agricultural problems that
may arise in operations;
Supervises meteorological observations in cane growing areas
in the zone;
Conducts soil surveys of cane growers' plots for suitability
as cane growing area;
Conducts maturity tests of cane in both the nucleus estate and
outgrowers area and recommends a harvesting program to the Agri-
cultural Department Manager;
Investigates the economic feasibility of irrigation;
Liaises with the Agricultural Research and Extension Director of
KSA, and with the Director of the National Sugar Research
Institute;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Agricultural Department Manager.
Qualifications:
College degree in Agriculture, preferably with emphasis in soil
science and plant nutrition, with at least 8 years experience
as research officer in a Government or private research
institution.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 10
Chief Engineer
10.       The Chief Engineer would be directly responsible for the operations
of the Engineering Division.
Reports to: Factory Department Manager.
Supervises: 3 Shift Engineers, 1 Electrical Engineer, 1 Mechanical Engineer
and 1 Civil Engineer.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls the operations of the Milling,
Electrical, Mechanical and Civil Engineering Sections to
insure that their respective operations are in accordance
with established Company plans and programs;
Supervises both cane yard and milling operations to assure
efficiency and economical juice extraction;
Carries out a program of preventive maintenance and repair
of equipment to minimize production interruptions;
Insures the economical generation of steam and electrical
power required for operations;
Carries out programs for the development of staff in the
Engineering Division in coordination with the Personnel
and Industrial Relations Department;
Applies prescribed standards for industrial safety;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him
by the Factory Manager.
Qualifications:
College degree in Mechanical Engineering with Sugar Technology
and at least 5 years experience as Chief Engineer of a
sugar factory.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.
Processing Superintendent
11.       The Processing Superintendent would be directly responsible for
the operations of the Processing Division.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 11
Reports to:   Factory Manager.
Supervises:   3 Assistant Superintendents
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls the operations of the Clarification,
Crystallization, Curing and Bagging Stations, and the Water
Supply and Effluent Treatment Station to insure that juice
undergoing processing into sugar meets prescribed Company
standards of quality and that processing is done economically;
Complies with Government and Company regulations and standards
on food processing;
Applies Company procedures on industrial safety in coordination
with the Personnel and Industrial Relations Department;
Carries out programs for the development of staff in the Process-
ing Division in coordination with the Personnel and Industrial
Relations Department;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Factory Manager.
Qualifications:
College degree, preferably in Chemical Engineering with at
least 5 years experience as processing superintendent of a
sugar factory.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.
Chief Chemist
12.       The Chief Chemist would be directly responsible for the operations
of the Control Division.
Reports to: Factory Manager.
Supervises: 3 Assistant Chemists.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Plans, directs and controls the operations of the Control
Division concerning quality control procedures for sugar
manufacture;



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 12
Supervises the weighing of cane received from the nucleus
estate and outgrowers area and prepares records to be used as
a basis for the payment of cane purchased from outgrowers, and
other related statistics;
Analyzes cane juice periodically at specific stages of processing
from mechanical juice extraction to the bagging station ancd
determines the quality and processing efficiency and recommends
prompt adjustments when necessary;
Compiles operational data and prepares prescribed reports on
cane received, juice extracted, sugar bagged, molasses produced,
recoveries and losses and other related technical information;
Carries out programs for the development of staff in the Control
Division in coordination with the Personnel and Industrial
Relations Department;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Factory lIanager.
Qualifications:
College degree in Chemistry with diploma in Sugar Technology,
with at least 5 years practical experience working as a Chief
Chemist in a sugar factory.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.
Assistant Controller and Budget Officer
13.       The Assistant Controller and Budget Officer would be directly
responsible for the preparation of consolidated budgets for the Company.
Reports to: Controller.
Supervises: Office Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Formulates systems, forms, and procedures for the preparation of
Company budgets;
Initiates the annual preparation of budgets by each Department
in accordance with budget guidelines and Company-established
procedures;



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 13
Advises various Departments in the process of budget preparation
and reviews the forms submitted with the assistance of the Chief
Accountant and the Cost Accountant to assure completeness,
accuracy, and compliance with procedures;
Prepares consolidated budgets and assists the Controller in
clarification and review during budget sessions with Department
heads;
Initiates reviews to improve systems and procedures, and recommends
changes to the Controller, and assists implementation of approved
changes;
Analyzes and recommends systems and methods for the computation
of charges for services rendered to outgrowers by the Agricultural
Department;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the Controller.
Qualifications:
College degree in Business Administration with emphasis on
accounting, preferably a chartered accountant with at least
6 years experience in financial management of a private
company.
Age:     35-40.
Administrative Officer (Controller)
14.       The Administrative Officer would be directly responsible for all
administrative services for the entire company as head of the Administration/
Finance Division, Finance and Administration Department.
Reports to: Controller.
Supervises: Division Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Receives, safeguards, and disburses or issues cash, materials,
and supplies, sugar and molasses, based on duly authorized
vouchers, requisitions or delivery orders;
Purchases materials and supplies required by the various
Departments;
Issues fertilizers and other agricultural supplies to the
account of farmers;



ANINEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 14
Attends to the clerical work of the Department;
Operates a message center for mail, telephone and other forms
of communication for the Company;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the Controller.
Qualifications:
Degree in Business Administration, with at least 8 years
practical experience as administrative manager of a private
business concern.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.
Chief Accountant
15.       The Chief Accountant would be directly responsible for the opera-
tions of the General Accounting Division, Finance and Administration Depart-
ment.
Reports to: Controller.
Supervises: Division Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Keeps general ledger, journals, subsidiary ledgers for recording
and reporting the financial transactions of the Company;
Reviews and verifies all vouchers for payment including invoices,
as well as all documents evidencing receipt of supplies, equip-
ment, services, purchase of cane from outgrowers, or sale of
sugar and molasses to insure their accuracy and validity; and
prepares payrolls for the Departments;
Prepares prescribed financial reports for the Company;
Cooperates with the Assistant Controller and Budget Officer
and Cost Accountant in the preparation of annual budgets for
the Company;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the Controller.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 15
Qualifications:
College degree in Business Administration with emphasis on
accounting, preferably a chartered accountant with at least
6 years experience as Chief Accounting Officer of an industrial
concern.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:       40-45.
Cost Accountant
16.       The Cost Accountant would be directly responsible for the opera-
tions of the Cost Accounts Division, Finance and Adninistration Department.
Reports to: Controller.
Supervises: Division Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Keeps subsidiary records of costs and expenses incurred by the
various operating departments with responsibility center break-
1-r- in IcC-rdance wlth Company-prescribed cost control
procedures;
l?reDdf-         _ s    -rol renorts based on records and assists in
analysis and interpretation of such reports for the Department
headq concerned;
>npares payrolls for the Agricultural and the Factory Depart-
7,etlcs, P-,' analyses labor distribution for cost control records;
Coop i-.e-, aith the Assistant Controller and Budget Officer in
t'io prtLp :>rtion of annual budgets for the Company;
Performs such other ftnctions as may be delegated to him by the
Controller.
QulAifications:
College degree in Business Administratior with emphasis on
managerial accounting, with at least 5 years experience working
as Cost Accountant with an industrial firm.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:       35-40.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 16
Industrial Relations Officer
17.       The Industrial Relations Officer would be directly responsible for
the operations of the Industrial Relations Office.
Reports to: Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager.
Supervises: Office Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Assures Company compliance with labor laws and regulations,
attends to labor union matters and administers Company programs
and policies in medical, security, safety, and employee welfare;
Attends to health and sanitation needs on Company premises and
in employee housing areas;
Organizes and implements Company programs for security
and safety;
Initiates programs on employee welfare, including recreational,
educational, cultural, sportive and such other activities as
would contribute to the promotion of a high level of staff
morale;
Performs such other duties as may be delegated to him by the
Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager.
Qualifications:
Familiarity with labor laws and regulations, with at least 8
years experience working as Industrial Relations Officer of
an industrial firm with a minimum of 200 employees.
Language Ability:
English, Kenyan language and dialects in South Nyanza District.
Age:      40-45.
Training Officer
18.       The Training Officer would be directly responsible for formulating
and implementing the manpower development programs rf the Company as head
of the Training Office.
Reports to: Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager.
Supervises: Office Staff.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Page 17
Duties and Responsibilities:
Formulates and administers career development programs for
Company personnel in coordination with Mlanpower Development
Director of the Kenya Sugar Authority and with other Company
Departments;
Prepares comprehensive training schedules specifying objectives
and outlining for each program, participants, frequency and
length of program, instructors and facilities required and
estimated cost;
Carries out training program in accordance with approved schedules
and arranges for the availability of participants, facilities,
budgetary allocations, materials, etc.;
Prepares reports on the progress of training programs;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by
the Personnel and Industrial Relations Manager.
Qualifications:
Degree in Business Administration with emphasis on Personnel
Administration and at least 8 years experience as Training
Officer in an industrial concern with at least 200 emplcyees.
Language Ability:
English.
Age:      40-45.
Personnel Officer
19.       The Personnel Officer would be directly responsible for the recrui-
ment of Company personnel, and for carrying out personnel administration
procedures as head of the Personnel Administration Office.
Reports to: Personnel and Industrial Relations Mlanager.
Supervises: Office Staff.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Recruits candidates to meet the personnel requirements of the
various Departments based on job specifications submitted by
them;



ANNEX 18
Appendix I
Page 18
Processes, tests and interviews candidates for positions;
Keeps prescribed personnel records including some minimum
data on personal circumstances, employment history, performance
ratings and leaves;
Formulates and recommends policies on salary and wage administra-
tion, prepares job descriptions, rankings of positions and salary
scales based on the evaluation of qualification requirements and
job content of various positions;
Performs such other functions as may be delegated to him by the
Personnel and Industrial Relations IManager.
Qualifications:
Degree in Business Administration with emphasis on personnel
administration, and at least 5 years practical experience as
personnel officer in a business concern with at least 200
employees.
Language Ability:
English, Kenyan language and dialects in South Nyanza District.
Age:      35-40.
January 20, 1977



ANNEX 19
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
THE WORLD SUGAR MARKET
A. Market Structure
1.        Approximately three quarters of the world's sugar production is con-
sumed in the producing countries; the remainder is traded internationally.
Until 1974, when the U.S. Sugar Act and the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
expired, 86% of the world sugar trade was concentrated in three separate and
protected markets: the United States, the United Kingdom and the Centrally
Planned Countries. The "free market" was a highly volatile residual market;
currently it includes about 75% of the world trade. Since the expiration
of the International Sugar Agreement, the world market has not been regulated,
although a number of significant bilateral agreements have been negotiated.
The expiration of the trade agreements, coupled with the high growth rate of
sugar consumption in developing oil producing countries, has changed the
structure of the international sugar market, and has improved the long-term
export prospects of the developing countries as they can compete for a larger
share of the world market. However, the risks associated with the production
of sugar for export have also increased. Past and future world sugar balances
and trade are depicted in Table 1.
B. Consumption
2.        World sugar consumption in 1975 was about 80 million tons.  The
growth rate of consumption from the mid-sixties to 1974 was greater than
the growth of production over the same period, primarily because of the pre-
vailing price structures in most of the consuming and producing countries.
The domestic price of sugar in most countries was kept insulated from world
market price increases during the period. Sugar consumption is responsive
to price changes as well as income changes, but the sharp rise in the free
market price of sugar in 1974 was not passed on to consumers and, therefore,
did not decrease consumption to a market balancing level.
3.        It is projected that 94-97 million tons of sugar will be con-
sumed in 1980 and 107-114 million tons in 1985 (Table 2). This projection
is based on current consumption levels and a price of US41O/lb in constant
1973 dollars, a price level which corresponds to the estimated long-term
marginal costs of the industry. The projected consumption levels represent
an average annual increase of 3.3-3.9% between 1975 and 1980 and of 3.0-3.7%
between 1975 and 1985. Due to higher per capita consumption and lower income
and price elasticities of sugar in developed countries, the growth rate of
consumption is expected to be lower in developed countries than in developing
countries. Accordingly, it is estimated that sugar consumption will increase
by about 8 million tons in developed countries between 1975 and 1985 and
by 15 million tons in developing countries.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
C. Production and Supply
4.        World production in 1975 was about 80 million tons.  Over the last
ten years world sugar production has lagged behind world consumption for a
number of reasons:                                        I
(a) Low prices throughout the 1950s and 1960s which provided
little incentive for export production;
(b) Lack of private capital from developed countries due to
fear of nationalization coupled with scarcity of public
capital in developing countries caused lags in new
investment and in maintenance of existing plants;
(c) The organizational restrictions set by the International
Sugar Organization (ISO) increased the rigidity of the
supply response to price increases. Members of the ISO
were unable to increase their export volume due to export
quotas;
(d) Production short-falls in Cuba, USSR and Europe during
this period caused by adverse weather conditions; and
(e) Other agricultural commodity prices, primarily of major
grains, rose faster than sugar prices and the negative
cross elasticities of supply between grains and sugar
caused the supply response to the increases in sugar
price to be slow.
Nevertheless, world sugar production increased from 39 million tons in 1955
to 78 million tons in 1973, or at an average rate of about 4% per annum.
The growth rate in the developing countries was about 4.6%.
5.        It is projected that world production will reach 92-99 million tons
in 1980 and 106 - 113 million tons in 1985 (Table 3). This represents annual
increases of 2.8 - 4.3% between 1975 and 1980 and 2.8 - 3.5% between 1975 and
1985. The major expansion in production is anticipated to take place in
developing countries where growth will be approximately 6.5 million tons
annually between 1975 and 1980 and 9.5 million tons annually between 1980 and
1985. At the same time it is anticipated that in the developed countries
production will grow annually by 4 million tons between 1975 and 1980 and by
2.5 million tons between 1980 and 1985. In the Centrally Planned countries,
sugar production is expected to increase annually by 5 million tons between
1975 and 1980 and by an additional 2 million tons between 1980 and 1985.
6.        Among the developing countries, the major expansion is expected
to take place in Brazil, which has recently become the world's largest cane
producing country. Other developing countries where production will be



ANNEX 19
Page 3
substantially increased are Mexico, Argentina, Peru, India, the Philippines,
Thailand, Sudan and Morocco. Among developed countries the greatest rise in
production will most likely take place in the EEC which aims to become self-
sufficient in sugar by 1980. The United States, on the other hand, may reduce
domestic production to some extent. Among Centrally Planned Economies,
Rumania and Hungary will account for the greatest part of increased produc-
tion, and it is expected that production in the USSR will be increased by
about one million tons to reduce that country's dependence on supplies from
the free market.
7.        During the last 10 years, production costs have risen from US$400-
500 per ton of annual capacity to US$1,000-1,200 per ton. It is estimated
that between 62% and 82% of the required growth in production capacity in
developing countries can be achieved through increases in the productivity
and expansion of existing facilities. The investment cost of US$120-400 per
ton of annual capacity of these rehabilitation and expansion projects are
relatively modest. Total capital investment needs for these types of
operation are estimated at US$1.3-2.6 billion for new capacity. The long-
term forecasts of demand and supply clearly point to viable opportunities
that are open to developing countries in sugar production and exports.
Nevertheless, the large capital investment needs in sugar and the rapid in-
crease in direct production costs could cause the world-wide expansion of
production to lag behind potential demand.
D.   Price
8.        The world market sugar price declined from about USJ38/lb in
January, 1975 to about USJ13/lb in December, 1975, at which level it stabi-
lized during the first half of 1976. This decline was attributed to increased
production in the EEC and the United States on the one hand, and to a decline
in consumption in some major developed and developing countries, on the other.
With the reduction of world prices to the present level and the economic re-
covery in the OECD countries, consumption is expected to increase back to
about 3-4% annually.
9.        The future price of sugar is projected to stabilize at USJ14.9/lb
in constant 1976 dollars; in current dollars the price is projected to be
about USJ20/lb in 1980 and USi28/lb in 1985 (Table 4). About 70% of the
factory gate price of sugar is factory cost. It is projected that the prices
of most factor inputs will increase at the same rate as general inflation;
and that in the long-run the price of sugar will approach long-run marginal
cost. The long-run price forecast is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Supply, demand and price mutually affect each other, and
supplies are usually more unstable due to their dependence
on weather conditions;
(b) World prices are not directly related to overall levels
of supply or demand, but rather to supply/demand imbalances,
i.e., the changes in sugar stocks;



ANNEX 19
Page 4
(c) Sugar competes with other food crops for land, and other
food prices, therefore, affect the supply and price of sugar;
(d) Certain special market arrangements still exist;
(e) Sugar demand is affected by the prices of other substitute
sweeteners, primarily for industrial usage; their share of the
world market is expected to expand, though modestly in markets
outside the U.S.
10.       The time path for developing countries to expand production capa-
city so that costs of production approach long-run marginal costs is highly
dependent on their ability to secure required capital. These countries
will have to invest quite heavily in the short-run in rehabilitation and
expansion projects to take advantage of the favorable market opportunities
and to reduce the risks of inducing a strong production response by other
producer groups. Given the relative cost advantage that developing countries
have in this type of capacity expansion, the realization of an adequate invest-
ment program in the sector should be given high priority. Furthermore, even
though the capital requirements of adding new capacity become progressively
larger, such expansion is justified as the possibilities of rehabilitating
and expanding existing facilities become exhausted.
December 30, 1976



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
WORLD SUGAR PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION, EXPORTS, IMPORTS,
1960, 1970-75 ACTUAL, 1976-85 FORECAST
(Million Tons)
Forecast
By Country Category       1960      1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975       1976      1980      1985
Production
Developing              18.07    27.41    28.27    29.40    31.41    33.04    34.58           36.28    41.05    50.68
Developed               17.22    22.55    23.89    24.19    23.97    23.25    23.41           25.11    27.60    30.10
Centrally Planned       17.01    22.94    21.80    22.16    22.75    22.41    21.33           22.97    26.50    28.30
Total          52.30    72.90    73.96    75.75    78.13    78.70    79.32           84.36    95.15   109.80
Consumption
Developing              13.61    22.31    24.07    24.61    25.21    26.75    27.16           29.77    35.55    42.50
Developed               23.55    31.42    31.43    31.89    33.17    32.24    31.59           32.65    35.70    40.30
Centrally Planned       12.06    18.39    18.89    19.51    20.33    20.78    20.68           20.95    23.90    27.00
Total          49.22    72.12    74.39    76.01    78.71    79.77    79.43           83.37    95.15   109.80
Exports
Developing               6.55      8.29      9.10    10.84    11.03    11.34    11.54         11.80    12.21    16.15
Developed                1.28      2.42      2.56     3.47      3.04      2.67      2.83       3.20      3.50      3.40
C(,-i-rally Planned      6.43      7.34     5z6R      4.63      5.30      5.67      5.65       5.91      5.60      5.60
Total          14.26    18.05    17.34    18.94    19.37    19.68    20.02           20.91    21.31    25.15
Imports
Developing               3.28      4.00     4.44      4.39      5.15      4.75      4.55       4.80      6.75      7.94
Developed                9.92    10.69    10.92    10.88    10.37    11.93    10.96           11.00    11.53    13.11
Centrally Planned        1.96      2.94     1.67      3.12      3.99      2.83      3.91       4.70      3.03      4.10
Total          15.16    17.63    17.03    18.39    19.51    19.51    19.42           20.50    21.31    25.15
Source:  World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department                                                     H t
September 30, lq76
'.0



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
WORLD SUGAR CONSUMPTION, 1972 ACTUAL, ESTIMATES FOR 1980 AND 1985
Consumption   Consumption Estimates   Consumption Estimates                 1972-80                    1980-85
in 1972           for 1980                   for 1985             Annual Percent Change   Annual Percent Change
Low         High          Low         High           Low         High           Low         High
----_________________ ('000 Tons) ----------------------   -                             (Percent) ---------- -----
World                          75,975         93,710      96,539        107,129    114,296         2.6          3.0           2.7          3.1
1. Developed Countries       31,522          35,533      35,844        40,147      41,389         1.5         1.6            2.5         2.9
North America             11,497          12,105      12,105        13,001      13,588         0.6         0.6            1.4         2.4
Canada                   1,037          1,253        1,253         1,379       1,379
United States           10,460         10,852       10,852        11,622      12,209
Western Europe            14,881          17,368      17,368        20,162      20,162         2.0         2.0            3.0         3.0
EEC                     10,474         12,192      12,192         13,137      14,197
Other Western Europe   4,407            5,176        5,176         5,965       5,965
Oceania                      895           1,025       1,025         1,192        1,192        0.0         0.0            3.7         3.7
Others                     4,249           5,035       5,346         5,792        6,447        2.2         3.0            3.0         3.8
Japan                    3,249           3,806       4,117         4,306       4,961
South Africa             1,000          1,229        1,229         1,486       1,486
2. Developing Countries    24,912            34,757      36,257        40,681       45,106        4.3         4.9            3.2         4.4
Africa                     3,604           5,382       5,528         6,280        6,990        5.2         5.4            3.1         5.0
Latin America             10,799          14,913      15,317        17,497      19,016         4.2         4.6            3.3         4.4
Mexico                   2,075           3,008       3,078         3,726        3,809
Brazil                   4,125           5,435       5,688         6,529       6,964
Others                   4,599           6,470       6,751         7,242       8,243
Asia                      10,509          14,413      15,412        16,904       19,100        4.0         4.9            3.3         4.4
India                    3,911          5,214        5,715         6,192       6,788
Indonesia                  961          1,246        1,551         1,419       1,951
Others                   5,637           7,953       8,140         9,293      10,154
3.  Centrally Planned
Countries               19,541         23,420       24,438        26,301      27,801         2.2         2.8            2.4         2.6
Asia                       3,822           4,828       5,840         5,300        6,800        3.0          5.4           2.0         3.2
China, People's Rep.   3,550             4,400       5,364         4,804        6,223
Others                     272             428         476           496          577
Eastern Europe            15,248          17,992      17,992        20,301       20,301        2.1          2.1           2.4         2.4
USSR                    10,750         12,889       12,889        14,717      14,717
Others                   4,498           5,103       5,103         5,584        5,584
Cuba                         471             600         600            700         700        2.1          2.1           2.6         2.6
Source: World Bank, Economic Analysis and Projections Department
September 30, 1976
m z
r tz



AiNEX 19
KENYA                  Table 3
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
WORLD SUGAR PRODUCTION, 1972 ACTUAL,
ESTIMATES FOR 1980 AND 1985
('000 Tons)
Production   Production Estimates   Production Estimates
in 1972           for 1980                 for 1985
Low          High       Low          High
World                           76,077       91,600       99,000    106,450       113,300
1. Developed Countries         24,847       26,500       28,600      29,100       31,700
North America                5,894        4,500        5,800      4,900        6,100
United States              5,761       4,400        5,700       4,700        5,900
Others                       133          100          100        200          200
Western Europe              13,378       15,900       16,400     17,700       18,800
EEC                       9,936       12,000       12,500      12,900       14,000
Turkey                       811          950          950      1,200        1,200
Others                    2,631         2,950       2,950       3,600        3,600
Oceania                      2,869        3,400        3,400      3,500        3,500
Others                       2,706        2,700        3,000      3,000        3,300
2. Developing Countries        29,697       39,300       43,300     49,050       52,300
Africa                       3,282        5,000        5,300       6,950        7,200
Egypt                        550          750          750        850          900
Mauritius                    727          750          750        850           900
Sudan                         99          500          500        750          800
Others                    1,906        3,000        3,300       4,500        4,600
Latin America               16,659       22,000       23,700     26,500       27,600
Dominican Republic         1,173        1,400       1,400       1,500        1,500
Mexico                     2,587        3,500        3,700      4,000        4,000
Argentina                  1,303        1,700        2,000      2,100        2,400
Brazil                    6,151        8,400        8,900       9,000        9,500
Peru                         899        1,000       1,200       1,200        1,200
Others                    4,546         6,000       6,500       8,700        9,000
Asia                         9,435       11,950       13,950     15,200       17,050
India                     3,707        5,200        6,000       6,200        6,800
Indonesia                   889,       1,250        1,450       1,750        1,950
Philippines                2,099        2,400       2,700       2,800        2,800
Thailand                     702       1,100        1,500       2,200        2,200
Others                     2,038        2,000       2,300       2,700        3,300
Oceania                        321          350          350         400          450
3. Centrally Planned
Countries                21,533       25,800       27,100      28,300       29,300
China, People's Rep.       3,150       4,300        4,300       5,000        5,000
Eastern Europe             4,021        5,000        5,000      5,500        5,500
USSR                       9,674      10,500       11,500      11,500       12,000
Cuba                      4,688        6,000        6,300       6,300        6,300
Source: World Bank, Economic Analysis and Projects Department.
September 30, 1976



ANNEX 19
Table 4
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
WORLD SUGAR PRICES, SELECTED PERIODS AND YEARS 1/
(US/lb., Raw)
Year/Period    In Current Dollars          In Constant Dollars
1976 2/ March 1977 3/
Actual
1967-69              4.9               10.9          11.1
1970-72              6.3               12.1          12.3
1974               25.0               30.5          31.1
1975               20.4               21.7          22.1
Forecast
1976               11.6               11.6          11.8
1977               12.0               11.1          11.3
1978               17.5               14.9          15.2
1979               18.9               15.0          15.3
1980               20.1               14.9          15.2
1985               28.2               14.9          15.2
1/  Up to and including 1974, the prices represent a weighted average
of US preferential, Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and ISA daily
price - f.o.b. and stowed Caribbean ports. Beginning 1975 the
prices represent ISA daily prices.
2/  Deflated by the index of manufactured goods (CIF index, SITC 5-8
classification).
3/ 1976 constant dollar prices adjusted by 2% for international
inflation; Project evaluation is based on these prices (Annex 4,
and 21.
Source: World Bank, Economic Analysis and Projections Department.
December 30, 1976



ANNEX 20
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZZA SUGAR PROJECT
FARMER, COMPANY AND GOVERNMENT BUDGETS AND BENEFITS
A. Outgrowers' Sugarcane Budget
1.        Outgrowers would enter into a cane growing contract with the Company
and receive specified services and inputs on credit from the Company (Annex
7). It has been assumed that the growing cycle for sugarcane would consist of
a plant crop (22 months) and two ratoons (20 and 18 months, respectively),
yielding a total of 225 t of sugarcane. The harvesting schedule per hectare
would be: Year 2, 88 t; Years 3 and 4, 37.5 t each; Year 5, 62 t; to be
repeated in 5-year intervals.
2.        The Company would prepare the land which would include ripping,
ploughing, harrowing and furrowing and provide, delivered to the field,
chemically treated seed cane and fertilizers. Approximately 7 t/ha of seed
cane would be required. The fertilizer recommendations include application
of 300 kg/ha of single superphosphate each on the plant crop and the ratoon
crops, and 100 kg/ha, 200 kg/ha and 400 kg/ha of C.A.N. on the plant crop
and the two ratoon crops, respectively. The Company would also harvest
the cane and transport it to the factory. The farm family would only
supply labor, initially for land clearing, and subsequently for planting and
gapping, weeding, fertilizer application, and trash raking after harvest.
3.        The estimated direct cost per hectare is KShs. 1,271 for land
preparation, and KShs. 841 for seed cane. For a five-year crop cycle, the
cost of fertilizer would be KShs. 2,883/ha; harvesting, KShs. 1,926/ha; and
cane transport, KShs. 6,532/ha. In addition, farmers would be allocated
a proportionate share of Company overhead costs hlich total KShs. 11,666/ha
over a five-year period, of which KShs. 1,500/ha would be general overhead,
KSh. 2,066/ha would be related to land surveying and preparation, and
KSh. 8,100/ha would be for harvesting and transport-related operations,
mainly the workshop facilities. Interest charges would amount to KSh. 760/
ha. The total cost to the farmer of producing one hectare of sugarcane
would thus be KShs. 26,114, over a five-year period, with the highest annual
cost being KShs. 7,753 in Year 2, and the lowest KShs. 3,787 each in Years
3 and 4. A detailed sugar cane budget is presented in Table 1.
4.        These costs, expressed in constant 1977 prices, would not be
covered by the resulting revenues at the 1976 cane price of KShs. 105/t;
the estimated deficit wouid be KShs. 2,488/ha over a five-vear period.
To provide sufficient incentive to growers, cane prices would have to be
raised significantly, therefore. Various alternatives and comparisons
with maize, groundnuts and tobacco are shown in Table 2. It is important
to take into account the revenue flow over time since sugarcane yields
three separate returns in five years, while the other crops generate annual
returns. This is done by expressing the five-year revenue streams in terms
of their present value. On this basis, sugarcane does not appear to be



ANNEX 20
Page 2
competitive with maize and groundnuts below a price of KShs. 145/t of cane,
or with tobacco even at much higher cane prices. An increase in the price of
sugarcane is thus justified on grounds of comparative profitability, par-
ticularly as an incentive margin over maize is necessary since maize as an
established and familiar crop has an advantage over the much less familiar
sugarcane.
5.        To arrive at a viable incentive price for cane the break-even
analysis, summarized in Table 3, has been undertaken. For policy purposes,
it is essential to take into account, in addition to the factors of produc-
tion included in Table 1, farm family labor. Family labor has to be priced
at full market wage rates as some such labor presently employed in other
parts of the country would have to be attracted back to the Project area
to meet on-farm labor requirements as well as the requirements of the
Company. The results of the analysis show that with the projected cost
of production the break-even cane yield would be 83t/ha/year with a price
of KShs. 105/t, and range from 48-32t/ha/year with corresponding prices
ranging from KShs. 128-155/t. With the estimated outgrowers yield averaging
45t/ha/year under the Project, the price at which all cash costs are covered
and a fair return to family labor is achieved would be KShs. 132/t.  However,
this break-even price is not a sufficient incentive price as no compensation
would be provided for the inherent risk element as perceived by farmers, and
no returns would be generated to "management," or the farmer as a businessman,
and to land. Allowing a margin of 15-20% for these factors, an incentive
price of KShs. 152-158/t of cane is arrived at. At that price, farmers using
Group lb land for cane growing and getting yieils at 36t/ha/year would also
be able to cover their expenses, earn a market-equivalent labor return and
a premium of 4-8%. The evaluation of the Project is based on the cane price
of KShs. 155/t. Farmers' cash flow, depicted in Table 4, is discussed in
para. 19; an outgrowers farm budget is presented in Table 5.
B. The South Nyanza Sugar Company - Financial Results
With a Factory Capacity of 2,000 TCD
6.        With the initially installed capacity of the factory and no further
expansion, the Company's production of mill-white sugar would increase from
about 25,000 t in Year 4 to a full-production level of about 60,000 t in
Year 9. As the management gains operational experience under local condi-
tions, the extraction of sugar would improve from an estimated ratio of 10
tons of cane per ton of sugar during the first few years of operation to a
ratio of 9.5:1 eventually; the evaluation assumes the former ratio for the
first five operating years, and the latter ratio from the sixth operating
year (i.e. Project Year 9) onwards. With an assumed ex-mill price of sugar
of KShs. 3,050/t, and including molasses sales, the Company's gross revenue
in constant (March) 1977 prices would increase from KShs. 78 million in
Year 4 to KShs. 200 million in Year 9 and subsequent years.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
7.        Variable expenditures are estimated at KShs. 39 million in the
first operating year (i.e. Year 4) and at KShs. 99 million at full pro-
duction in Year 9. The Company's variable margin as a percentage of gross
revenue would fluctuate within the range of 49-51% at full development.
Non-variable expenditures would be KShs. 5 million in Year I and increase
gradually to a maximum of KShs. 43 million from Year 4 onwards. The
Company's operational margin would be negative for Years 1-4; it would
then increase from 12% of gross revenue in Year 5 to a range of 24-29%
in Year 9 and thereafter. Interest payments, net of interest income
from outgrowers, would increase from about KShs. 5 million in Year 1 to
KShs. 41 million in Year 4, and would subsequently decline gradually. Based
on these estimates of revenues and expenditures, the Company would have
annual operating losses up to Year 5 and generate profits thereafter aver-
aging KShs. 45 million per year before taxes from Year 9 onwards. After-
tax annual net income at full development would vary between 11% and 19%
of gross reveue. On a cumulative basis, the Company would become profitable
in Year 11 and have generated a surplus of KShs. 151 million by Year 16
(Table 6).
8.         Balance sheet projections are presented in Table 7.  By the
end of Year 5, the Company would have outstanding long-term debt of
IKShs. 352.2 million, and equity amounting to KShs. 196.5 million, repre-
senting a ratio of debt to equity of 64:36. From Year 6 onwards, the
share of equity capital would gradually increase.
9.        The Company's equity of KShs. 196.5 million would consist of
Government's contribution of KShs. 145 million, lMehta's contribution of
KShs. 10 million, and on-investment of World Bank loan funds of KShs. 41.5
million. In addition to equity, the Company during the initial five-
year period would receive KShs. 390 million in loans and KShs. 261 mil-
lion in revenues from operations. The overall cash inflow during the
first five years, expressed in current prices, would thus total KShs. 847
million. The Company's cash outflow over the same period of KShs. 814 mil-
lion, including KShs. 671 million for capital and operating expenditures
and KShs. 143 million for debt service, would result in a cash surplus of
KShs. 33 million.  There would be a small annual cash flow deficit
(KShs. 0.66 million) in Year 4 which would be financed out of the previously
accumulated cash balance.  The Company would continue the agricultural devel-
opnent program throughout Year 6 and complete it early in Year 7 with the
cash surplus carried over from Year 5 and with additional self-generated
funds, thus producing only relatively small cash surpluses in those years.
After Year 7, annual surpluses would average KShs. 44 million. The rate
of return on Company investments without factory expansion to 3,000 TCD
would be 11%. The Company's cash flow projections reflecting the develop-
ment with a 2,000 TCD factory capacity are presented in constant prices
in Table 8, and in current prices in Table 9; the rate-of-return calculations
are shown in Table 10.
With Factory Capacity Expanded to 3,000 TCD
10.       If agricultural development were continued at an even pace after
Year 5 (see Annex 7), the factory would have to be expanded from 2,000 TCD
to 3,000 TCD in Years 6-8, and total production of sugar would increase to



ANNEX 20
Page 4
about 90,000 t by Year 12. The Company's revenue would increase to
KShs. 283 million at full development. Costs would be identical to those
incurred without expansion during Years 1-5 (para. 7), but would rise to
KShs. 146 million in Year 12 and the following years for variable expenses,
and to KShs. 45 million from year 7 onwards for non-variable expenses. The
Company's variable margin would be around 47-49%, and the operational mar-
gin 29-31% of revenue at full development. The first annual profit would
be generated in year 6, and on a cumulative basis, the Company would become
profitable and pay dividends in Year 10. Annual net income after taxes at
full development would amount to 17% of revenue, and 24% of equity. A
break-even analysis is included in the projected income statements in
Table 11.
11.       The Company's projected balance sheet reflecting the expanded
factory capacity is shown in Table 12. With the funding proposed for the
Project (para. 9) and additional investment in Year 6 (para. 12), the ratio
of long-term debt to equity would change from 58:42 in Year 1 to 64:36 in
Year 5, then gradually move in the opposite direction and reach about 50:50
in Year 9, and 25:75 in Year 15.
12.       The expansion phase during Years 6-11, including factory expansion
and agricultural development, would cost an additional KShs. 93 million,
expressed in terms of Year 5 (1981) prices, of which KShs. 22 million would
be expected to be financed through a short-term loan in Year 6, and KShs. 71
million would be financed through self-generated funds. This arrangement
would result in a reduction in the Company's cash balance for three successive
years, i.e. Years 6-8. From Year 9 onwards, the projections show an average
annual cash flow surplus of KShs. 78 million. The Company's cash flow projec-
tions, reflecting the expansion of the factory to 3,000 TCD, are shown in
Table 13 in constant prices, and in Table 14 in current prices.
13.       With the estimated costs and prices, the Company's internal finan-
cial rate of return on investments over a 25-year period would be 13%. The
rate of return would be 10% and 8% in the event sugar prices declined by
10% and 15%, respectively; and 12% if capital cost increased 10% (Table 15).
C. The Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
14.       To assure that sufficient funds are available and the foreign
exchange requirements are met, the reorganized and expanded KSA would initially
continue to be funded through Government appropriations (Ministry of Agricul-
ture), supplemented by funds from the World Bank loan. KSA would study
alternative methods for the financing of its future operations (e.g. direct
appropriations from the national budget, channeling of funds through the
Ministry of Agriculture, etc.) and submit a financing plan to the Bank
by July 1, 1979. KSA's expenditures for the first five-year period (1977-81),
including the Project's overseas scholarship program and specific studies
(Annex 17, para. 26) but excluding any other projects or programs that KSA



ANNEX 20
Page 5
might undertake, are estimated at KSha. 25.3 million; with debt service,
expenditures would total KShs. 29.8 million, expressed in current prices. Of
this amount, KShs. 17.3 million would be financed from the World Bank loan and
KShs. 12.5 million would be Government's responsibility (Table 16).
D. The National Budget
15.       The loans from the World Bank and African Development Bank would
be channeled through Government, while all other external financing would
be directly to the Company. The former would amount to KShs. 253 million
(US$30.5 million) in current prices over the first five-year period of the
Project. In addition, Government would receive KShs. 165 million (US$19.9
million) in Project-related taxes and duties and KShs. 33 million (US$4.0
million) in payments of interest and fees from the Company. Total cash in-
flow during the five-year period would be KShs. 451 million (US$54.4 million).
16.       Against these cash inflows, Government would, during the initial
five-year period, provide to the Company equity in the amount of KShs. 187
million (US$22.5 million) and loans totalling KShs. 131 million (US$15.8
million), and finance directly various Project components costing KShs. 95
million (US$11.5 million); debt service on external loans would be KShs. 67
million (US$8.0 million). Total cash outflow over the five-year period would
thus be KShs. 480 million (US$57.8 million), producing a cumulative net burden
on the Government budget of KShs. 29 million (US$3.5 million) by the end of
Year 5.
17.       From Year 6 onwards and assuming expansion to 90,000 t annual
capacity, Government revenues from the sugar excise tax and, after Year 11,
from the Company income tax would grow steadily. Total cash inflows in con-
stant Year 5 (1981) prices would average KShs. 209 million (US$25 million)
annually during the first full-development crop cycle in Years 12-16; average
annual cash outflows would be KShs. 12 million (US$1 million) for continuing
Project-related expenditures and KShs. 57 million (US$7 million) for debt
service. At full development (i.e. average for Years 12-16 crop cycle),
Government would thus have an average annual direct budgetary surplus of KShs.
140 million (US$17 million), expressed in constant Year 5 (1981) prices, as a
result of the Project. In addition, the Company would generate average annual
profits of KShs. 64 million (US$8 million), most of which would be transferred
to the national budget as Company dividends (Table 17).
E. Foreign Exchange Implications
18.       Over the first five years of the Project, the inflow of foreign
exchange as external loans it is estimated would amount to KShs. 512 million
(US$61.6 million) in current prices; molasses exports would earn another
KShs. 11 million (US$1.3 million). The foreign exchange content of Project
investments and operations would be KShs. 448 million (US$54.2 million), and
debt service on external loans KShs. 177 million (US$21.3 million). Actual



ANNEX 20
Page 6
outflows of foreign exchange would thus exceed actual inflows by KShs. 103
million (US$12.4 million). However, the value of foreign exchange savings
through import substitution of sugar produced under the Project would be KShs.
320 million (US$38.6 million), resulting in a positive net effect on the
country's foreign exchange balance of KShs. 217 million (US$26.2 million) for
the five-year period as a whole. On an annual basis, there would be a net
outflow of foreign exchange only in Year 1 of Project implementation, and a
net inflow (or saving) thereafter.
19.       At full development to 90,000 t annual capacity from Year 12 onwards
(annual average of five-year crop cycle) the actual annual net outflow of
foreign exchange consisting of expenditures related to the replacement of
capital items and purchase of current inputs, debt service on external loans,
less earnings from molasses exports, would be about KShs. 140 million (US$16.9
million), expressed in constant Year 5 (1981) prices. Annual foreign exchange
savings resulting from import substitution of sugar are estimated at KShs. 487
million (US$58.7 million), leaving a net annual foreign exchange savings
effect of KShs. 347 million (US$41.8 million). A foreign exchange budget for
the Project is shown in Table 18; the lending terms of the external loans are
summarized in Table 19. Costs eligible for World Bank financing are detailed
in Tables 20 and 21.
F. Farmer Benefits
20.       At the proposed price of cane of KShs. 155/t, the total outgrowers
production of 690,000 t at full development would have a factory gate value of
KShs. 107.0 million; without expansion, farmers would produce 405,000 t of
cane, valued at KShs. 62.8 million. With a net cash cost of KShs. 116/t,
the average annual cost of production would be KShs. 80.0 million, and returns
to labor, capital and management would amount to KShs. 27.0 million, or KShs.
38.90/t of cane, or KShs. 1,752/ha per year on average; the cost of production
and net returns without expansion would be KShs. 47.0 million and KShs. 15.8
million respectively. The actual net cash flow would be zero in Year 1, and
KShs. 941/ha, KShs. 1,775/ha, KShs. 2,026/ha and KShs. 4,020/ha respectively
for Years 2-5 (Table 4). This cash flow would result from the Company provid-
ing all services and inputs on credit and recovering the loan plus interest in
full at the time of harvest of each crop, while again providing any services
and inputs towards the next crop on credit. With the prices and production
as proposed, farmers would receive no subsidies whatsoever.
21.       Assuming that an average farmer would grow two hectares of sugar-
cane and that the cane would displace existing production including crops and
livestock, of about KShs. 450, then the average nel annual incremental income
would be KShs. 3,055 per farm; it would be negative every fifth year and
average KShs. 3,931 per farm per year in the intervening years (Table 5). For
the average farm family of seven in the Project area, net incremental income
per capita would be KShs. 436 (US$53) per year. The total net value of farm
production would increase from KShs. 1,710 (US$206) to KShs. 4,765 (US$574)



ANNEX 20
Page 7
per farm per year, or by about 180%. By comparison, average annual GDP per
capita was KShs. 1,573 (US$210) in 1975. The Project's farm income effect
would be very satisfactory for farmers who could achieve the projected income
without some family members presently employed off the farm having to return
home; returning laborers, while being able to earn market wages at home for
the hours actually worked on the cane, would have to supplement their income
through work off the farm to reach equivalent earnings on an annual basis as
the total labor requirements would average only 126 mandays per year for a
farm with 2 ha under cane. Supplementary income could be earned through
casual employment with the Company which would require some 2,200 persons as
harvest labor.
February 20, 1977



ANNEX 20
SOOTN NYANZA SUGAR P OJECT
(UE ts.h)
Year I     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    TOTAL
CANE CULTIVATION SCHEDULE
Plant Cane (22 mo.) (ha)                                                                                                 1
1st 3atoon (Pn mo ) (ha)                                                                                                             1
ITARStESTT.I, SCHEDNLF (t)                                                                                                            88         37.5       37.5      62        225
A.  -.Ross SESKEUP 
I)   Cane    ce:  KShs. 105/t                                                                                                9,240      3,938     3,938      6,510    23,626
(,,) Cane Price:  KShs  145/t                                                                                               12,760     5,438      5,438      8,990    32,626
(iii) Cane Price   K5ihs. 150/t                                                                                             13,200     5,625      5,625      9,300    33,750
(iv)  Cane Price:  KSis 155/t                                                                                              13,640      5,813      5,813      9,610    34,876
Work Performance                    Cost per
P. ELPENDITTURES                         Equipment Utilized         Hectares  Hours per        Unit        Umit
per Hour   Mectare                    (is;ha7
Land Clearing 3/
Land Preparation  /
Lipping                        120/150 HP Wheel Tractor          0.4        2.5         Hours        131.20        328                                                    5 .
Ploughing                      120/150 lP Wheel Tractor          0.3        3.33        Hours        133.40        444                                                    444
Harrowing (Twice)              120/150 HP Wheel Tractor          0.7        2.86        Hours        133.40        382                                                    382
Furrowing                      65/90 HP Wheel Tractor            o.8        1.25        Hours         93.90        117                                                   1?17
Subtotal                                                                                          1,271                                                  1,271
I'antlng oeain
Seed Caetlo/                                                     7 t/ha                 t             64.80        454                                                    454
Chemical Treatment 3                                             7 t of seed/ha         t             21.50        151                                                    151
Seed Transport hi              45/50 HP Wheel Tractor
and Self-Loading Trailer,
3-t Capacity                     0.4ha/hr  2.5hr/ha    Hours           94.40       236                          .                         236
Planting 3/                                                      15 mandays/ha
Gapping 3/    subtotal                                           5 mandays/ha                                      841
Field Maintenance
Hlillings (Twice) 34'          65/90 HP Wheel Tractor            o.8 ha/hr 2.5hr/ha    Hours          93.90        235                                                    235
Weeding
Quantity per Hectare
Fertilizer                              Plant Crop    lst Ratoon    2nd Ratoon
C.A N    /                              o100kg       200 o        k400                 kg             2.15        215         430        430       430                  ,
Single Superphosphate 3                 300 kg        300 kg         300 kg             kg             1.50        450         450       225        225                1,3SO
Transport  /                   lorries, 7-t Capacity             20 Im trip/15 ha       ia             5.30          7           9          6         6                    28
Application  S/                                                  2 mandays per ha                67_2_                                              7-                  27
oarvestin
- It-m  4/                      1.25 t of cane per manday                                Daily wage   10.70                    753        321        32L       -        -.
Thcsn Poking 31                 12 5 t of cane per manday                                                           -                     _'_
Subtotal                                                                                            _                     321       35'
Cane Iransport
yield to transloading           45/50 HP Wheel Tractor
Station 4/        and Self-Loading Trailer
3 t capacity                    5 t per hour            hour          94.40                   831        354        35"       505      P. 24
FPell and TiRnoloading          65/90 HP Wheel Tractor and
Ptatin to Pactory             H Silo Trailer, 8 t Capacity     8.7 t per hour         hour         102.4C                  1,035        1441      441        73-      IsV
Flex Boom Loader Wheel-Type    22 5 t per hour          hour         i15.40                   45i        L93        1do        ji          i o
Tractol  Helpers                65/90 HP Wheel Tractor with    (25% of Hilo)
Boughton Winch                   (Work Time  1          hour          93.50                   237        101        101        166       6n5
Subtotal                                                                                             -       2,554      1089      1,009 =21,c Et         532
Overhead Charges 2/
Company Agricultural Overhead                                                           KShs./year  300            300         300        300        300    ,  300      1,500
Land Survey & Preparation
Overhead                                                               KSbs .      20o66        2, 06          _          _          _                 2, o66
Cane  a-vestng & Transport
Overhead                                                               K5hs.jt        3                                16350      1;o 35      53Pz      11,66
Subtotal                                                                                        S2,36                                        2,532
Interest Charges /                                                                                                  539          8S         6G         66        -         760
TOTAL EXPKNDITURES                                                                                            5,924       7,753      3,787     3,787      4,863    26,114
C, NET REVENUE 7
(iW  @  KShs. Io5/t                                                                                             (5,924)      1,487        151        151     1,647   ( 2,488)
(ii) @  KShs. 145/t                                                                                              (5,924)     5,007      1,651      1.651      4,127     6,532
(iii1)     Kghs. 150/t                                                                                            (5,924)      5,447     1,838      i,838      4,437     7,636
(till g3 Kits. 15o/i                                                                                             (5,924)      5,887     2,026      2,026      4,747      3,762
2/  Sale proceeds reflect four cane price policy alternatives.
2   Expressed in constant March, 1977 prices (including physical contingencies).
/  Performed with fasm family labor (Annex 7, Table 6); does not involve cash expenditures.
4/ Performed or supplied by the Company on credit.
t/ Include outgrowers' share of overhead charges related to the Company's General Management and Administration
(Managers Office. Finance and Personnel Lepartments), Agricultural Department  and housing facilities.
6   Calculated on the basis of 11% interest per year.
Reflects various cane price assumptions; see footnote 1.
NOTE. The 5-year revenue and expenditure pattern depicted in this table is repeated, starting in Year 6.
January 20, 1977



KENYA
SOtITH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
PROFITABILITY OF MAIZE, JROIJNDNUTS, TOBACCO AND SUGARCANE
PER HECTARE OVER FIVE YEARS 1/
(KShs.)
Maize   oroundnuts  Tot.cco               Sugarcane
A.  GROSS RE'7ENUF
llnit Price (KSh;./t) 9/                780      2,750     5,000        105        1.45       150        155
Total Rever,ue                       10,500    13,200    39,000    23,626    32,626    33,750         34,876
B.  EXPENMITVRES ,/
Land Clear-ing
Land Prevaration                      3,o60     2,760      4,475      3,337      3,337     3,337       3,337
Planting Operations                     330      1,500     3,225        841        841        841        841
Weeding/li lliig,                                                      235        235        235        235
Fertilizer                            1,920     1,360      2,300      2,883      2,883     2,883       2,883
Pesticides                              270        275      _-         __         __         _ 
Harvesting                                                            1,926      1,926      1,926      1,926
Transport                               225         80       225    14,632    14,632    14,432        14,432
Firewood                               --         --       1,500
Interest and Other Charges /           600        200       645      2,260     2,260      2,260       2,260
VotaL, Excluding Labor        6,405      6,175    12,370    26,114    26,114    26,114        26,114
Farns Family Labor V/                 3,980     5,960      4,570      3,520      3,520     3,520       3,520
'Iotal, Including Labor       10,385    12,135    16,940    29,634    29,634    29,634         29,634
C.  NET REVENW1E
U[ndiscounted 0/
Excliuding Labor                      4,o95     7,025    26,630    (2,488)    6,512         7,636       8,762
Trc(1'Jdfln  labor                      115      1,0 65    22,060    (6,008)    2,992       4,116       5,242
Present Va]ue 2/
Excluding Labor                       3,105      5,326    20,190    (2,260)    3,681        4,5o4       5,331
Including Labor                          87        807    16,725    (5,152 )       789      1,612       2,439
2/  Expressed for a five-year period to account for the five-year growing cycle of sugarcane.
Data refer to a small tobacco project adjacent to Project area and are not generally
relevant to Project area farmers.
From Table 1.
Cane prices represent vaxious policy alternatives.
j  Expressed in March, 1977 constant prices.
!/ 2or sugarcane includes service charge to cover Company overhead on services provided
to outgrowers (Table 1 m
7/ Priced at market wage rates, i.e. KShs. 10.70/day (includes a physical contingency element).
,  %rn, in eonstfnt nries, of' net. revenues over 5 years.
9/  Sum of   yearly nel revenues, *liscounted at 10%, to account for uneven flow of revenue from
sugarparie biri rig tl e r0laut erop and ratoon cycles,
January >0, 1.9/,'?
F0
M o



KENYA
SC di liYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
BEF K-I'-llL 141ALY'13 FOR OUTGROWERS CANE PRODUCTION
(Ii;lt. ler Hectare in 5-Year Cycle)
iy(6 lr ir e   elected Price Policy Assu_Mptions           Yield- Related Prices
rEShs.:   105/ t         145/t          150/t         ]-55/t       128/t    132/t   146/t
3/
A. EXPENDITURE PROFILE
Variable Faq)enses /
Harvesting (225 t) 1,926
Transport  (225 t) 14 632
Subtotal (225 t) 16,558
Per Ton               73.59
Non-Variable Exenses i
L=and reparaon    1,271
Planting               841
Field Maintenance      235
Overhead, Interest   2,883
Subtotal, Excl.   4,326
Family Labor      9,556
Fain  Family Labor   3,520
Subtotal Incl.
Family Labor    13,(76
B. BREAK-EVEN AliALYSIS
Variable Margin Per Ton 5/                   11.41          71.41          76.41          81.41       54.41     58.41    72.41
(a) Excluding Family Labor
Break-even Cane Value               31, )45         19,404         18,759        18,194      22,481    21,59,5  19,268
Break-even Yield - 5 Year.; g'          3)4            134            125           117         176        164       132
- Per 'ear            6 L            27              25            23          35         33        26
(b) Including Family Labor
Break-even Cane Value               h3,'12          26,551         25,669        Kh,8936     30,761    29,634   26,365
Hreak-even Yield -                      4 Years 2  4If  183           171           161         240        225       180
- } er Year           83 z7/          37             34            32          48         45        36
See Annex 4.
Derived break-even prices, for outgrowe r average annual yields on Group I land
(48 t/ha), Group lb land (3( t/ha) and overall average assumed in Projeet
evaluation (I+ t/ala); ;ee Annex 7.
3/  Price used in Company profitability analysis; see Tables 6 and 10.
LI From Table ].
2/  Margin between eane nrice and variable expenses per ton.
Represents tle yield at whiob the variable margin equals non-variable expenses,
hence operatirntr margin equals zero. Ho allowance is made for a risk premium or lreturns to management and land.
7/  Since actual yield assumption is 45,'t/ha/year, actual revenue would be KShs. 4,7'5/year;
19e !'srig! lb !,aam it, 1i.-  I ,413/year: average non-variable expenses, KShs.  1,(l/year;                             ,gl
resIdtir.'  hi S ite&  lo-:s rdi ;ls. lj,)2/year, including family labor.
Janutaly "O, I '?,'



KENYA
SOt1TH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
OUTGROWERS CASH FLOW PER HECTARE OF SUGARCANE, YEARS 1-7
(KShs.)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7
CASH INFLOW
Sale of Sugarcane 1/
(j)   Cane Price. KShs. 105/t           --         9,240       3,938      3,938       6,510        --         9,240
(ii) Cane Price: KShs. 145ft            --        12,760      5,438       5,438       8,990        --        12,760
(iii) Cane Price: KShs. 150/t           --        13,200      5,625       5,625       9,300        __        13,200
(iv)  Cane Price: KShs. 155/t           --        13,640      5,813       5,813       9,610        --        13,640
Company's Credit 2]                      5,924       7,753       3,787       3,787       4.863       5,924       7,753
Subtotal 3i
(i)  @ KShs. 105/t                     5,924      16,993       7,725       7,725      11,373      5,924      16,993
(ii)  @ KShs. 145/t                    5,924      20,513       9,225      9,225       13,853        --       20,513
(iii) @ KShs. 150/t                    5,924      20,953       9,412       9,412     14,163        --        20,953
(iv)  @ KShs. 155/t                    5,924      21,393       9,600       9,600      14,473        --       21,393
CASH OUTFLOW
Payments for Company Services  /          --        12,160       3,949       3,721       5,524        __        12,160
Payment of Interest |)                     --          539          89          66          66        --           539
Production Expenditures 2                5,924       7,753       3,787       3,787       4,863       5,924       7,753
Subtotal                   5,924      20,452       7,825       7,574      10,453       5,924      20,452
NET CASH FLOW S/
(i)   @ KShs. 105/t                     --        (3,459)       (100)        151         920        --       (3,459)
(ii)  @ KShs. 145/t                     --            61       1,400       1,651       3,400        --           61
(iii) @ KShs. 150/t                      -           501       1,587       1,838       3,710       __           501
(iv)  @ KShs. 155/t                     --           941       1,775       2,026       4,020        --           941
CUMULATIVE NET CASH FLOW
(i)   @ KShs. 105/t                     --        (3,459)    (3,559)    (3,408)    (2,488)    (2,488)    (5,947)
(ii)  @ KShs. 145/t                     --            61       1,461       3,112       6,512       6,512      6,573
(iii) @ YShs. 150/t                     --           501       2,088       3,926       7,636       7,636      8,137
(iv)  @ KShs. 155/t                     --           941       2,716       4,742       8,762       8,762      9,703
/ Sale proceeds reflect four cane price policy alternatives.
2 From Table 1 ; assuming 100% financing by the Company. Farm family labor is not costed.
3/ Calculation based on alternative cane prices; see footnote 1.
2 Includes repayment of credit associated with crop being harvested in any given year;
excludes expenses on crop for future harvest which are again incurred on credit.
J  Based on 11% interest per year, payable at end of loan period.
January 20, 1977
ro



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
OUTGROWERS FARM BUDGET 1/
(KShs.)
Without                                With Project
Project    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
2/         3/                                                   3/
Value of Production
Traditional Crops 4/        2,130      1,570      1,570     1,570      1,570      1,570     1,570      1,570
Sugarcane 5/                    0          0    27,280    11,626    11,626    19,220            0    27,280
Company Advance (Credit)5/         0     11,848    15,506       7,574     7,574      9,726    11,848    15,506
Gross Farm Income           2,130     13,418    44,356    20,770    20,770    30,516    13,418    44,356
Expenditures
Traditional Crops             420         310       310        310       310        310        310       310
Sugarcane 5/                    0     11,848    40,904    15,650    15,148    20,906    11,848    40,904
Total Expenditures            420     12,158    41,214    15,960    15,458    21,216    12,158    41,214
Net Farm Income              1-710         1,260     3,142      4,810     5,312      9,300      1,260     3,142
Incremental Net Farm
Income                       --          (450)    1,432     3,100      3,602      7,590      (450)    1,432
1/ Expressed in constant (1977) prices.
2/ The analysis assumes that the farm production pattern would remain
unchanged without the Project.
3/  Although interrow cultivation is common in sugarcane during the first
year after planting, no allowance has been made for this in the analysis.
4/  Includes primarily mafie; other traditional crops of marginal significance
are groundnuts, and sugarcane for jaggery.                                                             F m
5/  Based on Table 4; assumnes 2 ha of sugarcane per outgrower farmer.
January 20, 1977



SOUOTh NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
souTH NTYANZA SUGAR COMPANY                                    I
INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS.-IN UONSIANT PRICLSS WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF ~60.000_TONS-
Ser    - rr 2     year_       YeaY 4.          Year 5  Ycar 6       Year        Year 6      Year 9-   Year 10   Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year- 14    Year 15    Year 16
BASIC PRODUCTION DATA
Sugarcane -Nucleus EstaLe i'000t)                     -           -              114         163         194         [13          114          176         163         194         163          114         176          163         194
-Outgr ...rs      ('1000'.    -            -                        132          186         257         396          422         422          422        422          422         422          422         422          422
Total S.garesue. ('00Ot,    -             -                         246          351         451          5119        536         598          585        616          585         536          598         585          616
Sugar                            It,      -           --          -          24,600       35,100      45,100       55, 9(0     53,600      62,790       61,425    64,680        61,425      56,280       62,790      61,425       64,680
Molasses                        _z --                             -_-__       9 5~00      12 990      16.~690      20.680      19830                   22.10 2.0    2000        21.600      19.800       22.100      21.600       22.800
REVENUE
gale of Sugar 21 /-                                                          75,030    107,055    137,555         170,495    163,480    191,510        187,346   197,274       187,346     171,654      191,510     187,346    191,274
Sale of Molasses 3/                      -            -           --          3.185   ~4.54~7          5.842        7.238       6.941        7.735       7.560      7.980        7,560       6.930        7.735        7.560       7.980
Total Reveo,oe               --           -            -         78,219    111,602    143,397    177.733          170,421    199,245    194,906   205,254         194,906    178,584        199,245    194,906    205,254
VARIABLE EXPENSES
Nucleus Estate, Sugarcane
Production 4/                          --           -            -         12,084       15.930      17,719       15,344      11,515      16,327       15,349    17,345        14,941      11,148       15,683      14,660       17,055
Outgros,ers, Sugatrane Purchas      '     -           ---                     20,460      29,140      39,835       61,380      65,410      65;410       65,410    65,410        65,410      65,410       65,410       65,410      65,410
Factory Casts                              -           -           -          4,994        7,125       9,155       11,348      50,881       12,139      11,876    12,505        11,876       10,880      12,139       11.876      12,505
Molasses (Transport and Excise
Tax) 6                                  -           --                      1.875        2.676       3.438       4,260        4.085       4.523        4.450      4.697        4.450       4.079        4.553       4.450        4.698
Subtotal                     --          -             -         39,413      54,871       70,147      92,332       91,891      98,399       97,085    99,957        96,677      91,517       97,785      96,396       99,668
Variable Margie                           -           --          -          38,802       56,731      73,250       85,401      78,530    100,846        97,821   105,297        98,229       87,067    101,460        98.510    105,586
(As Percent of Revenue)                -            -           *              (50)        (51)        (51)         (58)        (46)         (51)        (50)        (50)        (50)         (49)        (51)         (51)        (51)
N4ON-VARIABLE EXPENSE.S
Factory                                     722       1,309       4,522       11,080      10,914      10,914       10,796      10,714       10,714      10,714      10,714      10,714       10,714      10,714       10.714      10,714
General Admsinistration                  2,048        3,274       5,162        7,772       7,843       7,845        7,843       7,843        7,843       7,843       7,843       7,843        7,843       7,843        7,843       7,843
Training                                     37         149         887          393         323          267         267          267         267          267        267          267         267          267         267          267
Research                                   477          627         627          627         627          627         627          627         627          627        627          627         627          627         627          627
Mlanagessnt Fee (Non-Variable)            1,121       1,121       1,121        1,210       1,210        1,210       1,210        1,210       1,210        1,210      1,210       1,210        1,210        1,210       1.210        1,210
Depreciation 7/                              728     1497    __ 2737         21,843       21.959      21.959       21.959      21.959       21.959      21.959    21.959        21.959       21.959      21.959       21.959      21.959
Subtotal                     5,153       7,977       15,056      42,925      42,876       42,820      42,702       42,620      42,620       42,620    42,620        42,620      42,620       42,620      42,620       42,620
Managem.set Pee (Variable) i              -           - --                     --            852        1.705       2.292        1.910       3.086       2.2          .38        296          232         3118         2.9557      3:339
Operatioal Margi           (5,153)      (7,977)    (15,056)     (4,123)    13,003        28,725      4,0          3,00        510          5275        939         52,66       4215         5,2          52.93       5,2
(Aa Percent of Revenue)                (-           H-          (-            (s           (12)        (20)         (23)        (20)         (28)        (27)        (29)        (27)         (241)       (28)         (27')       (29)
INTEREST
-Paymsents 9                               i,'          *,1--          41       42,527      31,610io      L~        2,536        22,668       09,738     '5,10vo-    14,5445      11,278        9,932       8,586        7,036       6,547
Receipts 10/                             --           -                         .49        1495        2.043        31 48r       3.7355       3;3)       3. 551      3.355(      3.I55        3.3755       3.1355      3.3551       3.355
Subtotal                   )V.                 I      iF1         1,7          015        2,b         2,7           973        I,0           70.         110         793         b57          5,33,1                   3,9
Income Before Tax             ~          9, 7        H11,2,)    31,i0l1)   )145,6o1)   (17,11.2)       2,056       17,969      14,687       36,757     538,622    148,159       114,740      35,528      50,4191      119,052     56,1135
Income Tax 11/                           --           --          -            ---                     --           --          --           --          --         17,0149     20,133       15,988      22,721       20,0O73     25,396
Net Income                  1Q,7: I1 ',s20)    31,7011    (115,601)   (17,112)             2,056      17,969       111,687     38,757       38,622     31,110       241,692      19,540)     27,770       26,979      31,039
(Ac Pereent of W , .. -L-                             -            (5)         (1)           (4          (10)          (9)        (19)         (20)       ('5)         (13)        (11)         (111)       (14)         (15)
Cmuolati,e Net. Tu,         '97i       ',7,91481    (t~9,652)  (105,253)  (122,365)  (120,3091   (102,3410)   (87,653)   (118,896)   (10,2741)   20,836            415,4411    641,983      92,'7 53    119,732    150,771
I/   The incote statement projectloss are expressed in constant (March) 1977 prices snd are consistent with the Project cost
esti,mates (Annex 15), balance sbeet projections (Table 7), and cash flow projections (Table 8).
2/   Valued at KSha. 3,050/t.
3/   Valued at KSbs. 350/t (f.o.b. Moebasa).
4Z/   Represents total cost of productioe of sugarcane on the nucleus estate.
5/   Value of sugarcane purchased fros  autgroweers at KBbs. 155/c.
6/ Includes excise tax (KSha. 6/t), and transport charges itIShs. 200/t) from  the factory to dockside Mombhasa.
7/ Includes depreciation of factory, general admtinistration, research and housing assets.
8/ Calculated at 5% of net operating profit, before allowing for depreciation; the contractual msinimum charge of KShs. 338,000/year is
included in the non-variable por,tl,n of the fee.
9/   From Table 11, including laa.  coaito t ee f.
TO/  Interest payments by outgrowcr,, based on 11 X1 annual i,,erest on the value of services and inputs provided by the Company.
TV/ Calculated at 415. of operating ic -,me afcec intcerest.
,Tanuurly 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUIII SYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOtiTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
-ALANCE StEET PPOJECTIONS, WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 60,000 TONS, IN CONSTANT PRICEi
Year 1     Yeas 2     Yea: 3     Year 4       Year 5    Yeaw 6     Year 7     Year 8      Year 9     Year 10   Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year 14    Year 15    Year 16
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                          34,549     62,149      90, 6     387,938     390,460   396,590    415,539    418,397    435,104    437,462   444,526    463,516    478,207    494,o02    496,416    505,623
Less Depreciation                   2,872       8,946     16,385     45,875      75,684   105,646    133,697    161,748    189,799    217,850   245,901    273,952    302,003    330,054    358,105    386,159
Construction in Progress              84,437    218,714   276,850         --          --        --         --          --         --           -
Subtotal               11,t114    271,917    350,525    362,063      314,776   290,944    281,842    256,649    245,305    219,612   198,625    189,564    176,204    163,948    138,311    119,464
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate - Plantation 2          3,428      13 ,110    23,153     26,735      25,396    23,393      24,035     26,373      25,546     24,181    22,184      22,866     25,201      25,504     24,459     22,686
Accounts Receivable-Outgrowers ,/      2,952      10,234     18,o4i     22,997      28,149    34,784      36,477     36,477      36,477     36,477    36,477      36,477     36,477      36,477     36,477     36,477
Other Inventories i/                   1,525       3,950      5,00m      6,co0       7,000      7,000      7,000      7,000       7,000      7,000     7,000       7,000      7,000      7,000       7,000      7,000
Cash and Bank Balance                                        3 9! 3,323  L2,881  31,79()    32,458  50,965   36,071    20657    22226    39.358  71.242    91.590    104,215    117259    139 461   175,605    220 702
Net Working Capital                     11,         0,175      77,986     88,190     111,510    99,268      88,169     92,076    108,381    138,900   157,251    170,558    185,937   '20,46    263,561    286;865
Net Assets             127,342    312,092    428,509    430,253      426,286   390,192    370,011    348,725    353,686    358,512   355,876    360,122    362,141    372,392    381,852    406,329
LIABILITIES
Long-Term Debt |/
World Bank                                      2,570     52,690    100,320      131,250   124,687    118,124    111,561    104,998      98,435    91,872      85,309     78,746      72,183     65,620      59,058
Suppliers Credit - German,y        17,200     44,600      56,400     49,350      42,300    35,250      28,200     21,150      14,100      7,050       --         -      -               --         --          --
Suppliers Credit - India           15,500     40,25n      50,998     44,617      38,236    31,855      25,474     19,093      12,712      6,331       --         __         __          __         __          __
European Investment Bank           33,400      86,6oo    109,S60    109 560      109,560    98,604     87,648     76,792      65,736     54,780    43,824      32,868     21,912      10,956       __          __
Eximbank                            7,900      18,280     19,593     15,239       lo,885     6,531      2,177       --          --         --         --
East African Development Bank       6,070      15,'740    19,920     19.920       19,920    17,076     14,228     11,382       8,536     5,690      2,844        -          __          __         _ 
Total Long-Term Debt    80,070    208,060    309,161    339,006      352,151   314,001    275,851    239,878    206,082    172,286   138,546    118,177    1oo,658         83,139     65,620     59,058
NET WORTH
Company Equity                        57,000    032,)0)    1 f,002    196,500         196,500   196,500    196,500    196, 500    196,500    196,500   196,500    196,500   .196,500    196,500    196,500    196,500
Income From Operations i/              (9,728)   (27,946)   (59,652)  (105,253)  (122.365) (120.309)  (102,360)   (87,653)   (48,896)   (10.274)  20,836          45,445     64,983      92,753    119,732    150,771
Total Net Worth         47,272    104,052    119,348      91,247      74,135    76,191      94,160    108,847    147,604    186,226   217,336    241,945    2,61,483    289,253    316,232    347,271
Total Net Worth
Plus Liabilities       127,342    312,092    428,509    430,253      426,286   390,192    370,011    348,725    353,686    358,512   355,876    360,122    362,161    372,392    381,852    406,329
Long-Term Debt
Equity Ratio                       58:42       61:39      6'3:37     f3:37        64:36     62,38      58:42      55:45       51:49      47:53      41:59      38:62       34:66      30:70      25:75       23:77
i/ The balance sheet projections are expressed in constant (Marchl) 197': pri-es and are consistent with the Project cost
estimates (Annex 15) and the income etatement (Table6 3.
T Includes net investments in sugarcane (current value less productio- cost of' sugarcane); excludes the value of land.
3/ Represents the net value of services and inputs provided to cftgrowers, i,c:... ling Company overhead costs allocated to outgrowers.
3/ Includes spare parts, tools and operating materials.
2/ Calculated from Table 8.
Prom Table 6.
January 20, 1977



KENYA
.tV,'TFrI NYANZA SUGAR PAOIECT
SOUTHI NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY L/
CASH FIOW PYROJECT1O0: 1111W1 A YACTOWOY CAPACITY OF 60.000 TONS IN CONSTANT PRICES
(Kshs. TOYo)
Yree 1    Tear 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5    Year 6     Year 7     Year 8      Year 9     Year 10   Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Yesr 14    Year 15    Y.r 16
CASH INFLOW
Equity - Government                   i6,s5n     47,350     44,65u      06,450
- Oovernrent (World Bank
Loan)                    i1,6o0      23,900        --         --          --         _-         -          --         --          _     -               __         __          __         *-         __
- The Mebta G-rep              ,,850       3,750      2,350      1,050         --        --         .-          --         __         __         __         __         __          __         __          __
Reven--  Free Operations -                                     -       78.215  1 i11602  043,397    177.733    170,421    199.245    194.906   205.254    194.906    178,584    199.245    194.906    29.254
Subtotal                57,000     75,000      47,000     95,715     111,602   143,397    177,733    170,421    199,245    194,906   205,254    194,906    178,564    199,245    194,906'  205,254
Loans
W drld Beeh                           --        2,570     50,120     47,630       30,930      --          --         --         __          __        __         __          __         __          __         __
Supplier- Credit - Yereaey          17,200     27,400     11,800        --           --
Suppliers Credit - I=dia            15,500     24,750     10,748       --                                                                   --
European IPneatrent Mank            33,400     53,200     22,960        -- -o                             - 
Eeibaak/P.E F.C./Hrrtf-rd           7,900     10,380      3,490        --          --        --         --          --         --          --        --         --          --         --          --         --
la-t Afri.an Devel-pment Meek        6 070      9.670      4,180       --           --        --         --          --         --         --         --         --          --         --         --          --
Subtetal                80.070    127,970    103,298      47,430       30,930      --         --          --         --         __         __         __          __         __         __          __
e0tal Cath Inflow      137,070    202,970    150,298    143,345      042,532   143,397    177,733    170,421    199,245    194,9C6   205,254    194,906    178,584    199,245    194,906    205,254
CASH OUTFLOW
Capital leveeteente 3/               118,986    161,877     86,587      21,028       2,522     6 130      18,949      2,858     16,707       2,358     7,o64      18,990     14,691     16,749       2,413      9,138
Cae. Plentatioae - Nucles Estate       1,937      6,492      6,Aoi      11,269      10,248    11,389     11,660       9,526     11,173       9,657    11,021      11,292      9,158     10,805       9,289     11,021
Cane Plnatsteine - Outgrewers          2,319      5,895      6,347      14,279      17,912    24,453     31,934      31,934     31,934     31,934    31,934      31,934      31,934     31,934      31,934     31,934
Feetery Tarinble Epeases                --         --         --         4,994       7,125     9,155      i1,348     lo,881     12,139      11,876    12,505      11,876     10,880     12,139      11,8?6     12,505
Melassar ( r-eap-rtatioa and
Excise Tee)                           --         --         --         1,875       2,676     3,438      4,26o       4,o85      4,523       4,450     4,697      4,45o       4,079      4,453       4,45o      4,698
operating Expeasee                     4,405      6,48o     12,319      21,082      20,917    20,901     20,743    2o,661       20,661     20,661    20,661      20 661    20,661       2o,661      20,661     20,661
Mnagereent Fee - V,sriable 2/           --         --          --         -            852     1,705       2,292      1,910      3,086       2,926     3,328       2,946      2,342      3,118       2,957      3,339
Ieeantery IEuteeeY J/                  1,525      2,425       1,050      1,000       1,000       --         --         --         --          __        __          __         __          __         __          __
Peyeent (Yifecentiat) fOr
Otgrewerr   So,gercae  /             --         --         --         6,838      11,378    16,258     26,225      28,356     28,356     28,358    28356       28,356      28,356     28,356      28,356     28,356
Eaceec Tee                 --         --~~~~~~~~~~8316  -    --            --     -3-_                                 579-     112,21   1365    1 g;3                                     R9272   2.5
Subtotal               129,172    183,169    112,564      82,365      74,630    93,829    127,411    110,211    128,579         --                      33. 50  38    13  43  2   72    2f4048
Iatereet Pay)eats 2/
Weld Peal            _                _-          270      5,533      10,534      13,702    13,437      12,748     12,059 .   11,370      10,68i     9,992       9,303      8,6i4      7,925       7,236      6,547
Suppliers Credit - Geeeany            --         --         --        11,226       4,072     3,509      2,946       2,387      1,824       1,263       842        -_         --         --          __         __
Supplier-  Credit - Ildie             --         --         --        10,205       3,702     3,190      2,678       2,170      1,658      1i148        765        --         __         __          __         __
Eurepemn Investaet BPek              2,004      5,196      6,574       6,574       6,574     5,917      5,26o       4,603      3,946       3,289     2,632       1,975      1,318        66i        --         __
Er.ibaeek/P.E.F.C./Hartford            711      1,645      1,760       1,564       1,172       780         388        196       __          __        __          __         __          __         __
East Afnlcee D-eelopment Bank          668      1.732      2.190      2,190        2.192     it879      1566       1.253        940         627       314        --         --         --          __         __
S.bteta1                 3,383      0,843      16,059     42,205       31,494    28,712     25,586     22,668      19,738     17,008    14,545      11,271       9,932      8,586       7,236      6,547
Lean Cepriet.e.t Fee 2/
Weld BPnk                              '84        965        589         232         116       --         --         --         --          -_        __          __         __          __         __          __
Eeiedent/P N . F . C . /Mehrtfe ord     69         17       _           --          -- _ _  _ _  __       __         _ _        __          _ __
Enst Afelran Develep.ent Pank          I39        418       --         --           --        --         --          --                    --
Subtotal                 1192       1,400        5H9        232          116      --         --          --         --          -         -           _          _          __           _
Lean Repymrent 2/
Werld Eenh                            --         --          --         -_          --       6,563       6,563      6,563      6,563       6,563     6,563       6,563      6,563       6,563      6,563       6,562
Oupplters Credit - leenay             --         --         --         7,050       7,050     7,050      7,050       7,050      7,050       7,050     7,050        __         _-          -_         __          __
Suppller, Credit - India.            --          --         --         6,381       6,301     6,381      6,381       6,381      6,381       6,381     6,331        --         --          __         __         __
Europea.n fnestatet BPek              __         __         __          __          __      10,956      10,956     10,956     10,956      10,956    10,956      10,956     10,956      10,956     10,956        --
EeiebWnhk!.E.F.C./Hartftrd            __         --        2,177       4,354       4,354     4,354       4,354      2,177       --          --        --          __         __          __         __
East Afrian Development BPek          __         __         __          __          -        2,846       2,846      2,846      2.846       2,846     2.846      .2846        --          __         __
SToh ,tsi                 --          --        2,177     17,785       17,785    38 150     38,150      35,973     33,796     33,796    33 746      20,365      17,519     17,519      17,519      6,562
Coral .ash 1Otflon     033,747    193,412    131,389    142,677       124,02,   160,291    191,147    168,852    182,113    163,022   184,906    182,281    165,54o    177,041    158,764    160,157
SOPPROS/(T)TTICIT)                       3,323      9,558      18,909        668      18,507   (16,894)   (13,414)      1,569      17,132     31,884    20,348      12,625     13,044      22,204     36,142      45,097
openin-ag Tab  alo,,-r                  --        3.323      12,881     31,790      32,458    50,965      34.071     20.657      22,226     39.358    71,242      91,590    104,215    117.259    139,463    175.605
CINIULATIVE SUlRTiA'P1D2FRI1')           3,323     12,881      31,790     32,458      50,96'    34,071      20,657     22,226      39,358     71,242    91,590    004,215    117,259    139,463    175,605    220,702
T1 The cash floe p-roJetio-o a.,,e .preanso in -onstant (M-rck) 1977 prices end are consistent with the ProJect coot
estimates  Otis-c 15), balnne- sheet p-mlectione (Table 7), and iecmee stateer.t pro-c- lons (Table 6).
F/ Fren Tabla ' e
3  no  Gal.ss iorvcc-rcntso 101 be 'a t,iry, egriculture, ndr,irlestrntior, housilng, and Canpany-eMlated sesenrch.                                                                                                    pn 
Incli 1   *. a! t -r ierr  or       i .:1 iop- 1 -  prooided to  ,utgrowers, soi-...... Gong  epristitt. o
at  Pine TA.hle t' .
TacInct. t~s oper- 'art, r. role a,,  p lerat ilog aeteriale.
7/  Repre -t.  -lPa,.t,I             1 to  -ri.  l. 1, oa'  ,f auaren-e at K5hs. 155/t and the coet tC  >e Company of aervices
sad ioTl,tl Pronltl? to o-tgro-e-o I' -lit, intercst on the Coapeny leans tC o-tg r.ro.    coveriog thCt cest
Fro  ''all  6.
3/  For Llo  rt  tat-e tan  lU 



KENYA
SOUTH BYANzA 2UOAR PROaECT
SOUTH HYiNg SUGAR COMPANYS
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 60.000 TONS, IN CURR4-T PRICES
Year 1    Yer 2    Year 3    Year 4         Yer 5   Year 6    Year 7         Yea 8      YTr 9    Year 10  Year 11    Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Tear 15   Tear 16
CASH INFlOW
Equity -  .orernat                   36,550     47,350     44,65o     16,450        --        -- o-                 -.                   -- __      __         __         _ 
- ourermolent (world
Bank 0x a)                 17,60o    23,900        --        --           _-       --         __         -_         _-         __         __         __         __         __         _ 
- The Mehta Group             2,850      3,750      2,350      1,050        __        __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __
Re-eanee Froa Operation.   J           --         --        --       103,400     157,805  202,763    251,314    240.975    281,732    275,597   290,229   275.597    258,518    281,732    275.597    290,229
Subtotal               57,000     75,000     47,000    120,900     157,805   202,763    251,314    240,975    281,732    275,597   290,229    275,597    258,518    281,732    275,597    290,229
loan
World Bank                          --         2,570    50,120      47,630      30,930      --        --         --         --         --         __         --         --         --         __         __
Suppliere Credit - Gery           17,200     27,400     11,800        __         __
S,ppliers Credit - India           15,500    24,750      10,748       -_         __        --         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         _ 
European E1-e-tNet Bank            33,400    53,200     22,960        --          __       --         __         __         __          __        __         __         __         __         __         __
Exi=berk/P.E.F.C./RHrtford         7,900      10,380      3,490       -           --       --         -           -         --         --                                                      _         __
East African Dewelopot Book         6,o7o      9,670     too          -           -          -         -          -          -          -         -           -         -          -           --
subtotal               80,070    127,970    103,298     47,630      30,930      --         --         -_         --         __         __         __         __         __         __
Total Caeb Inflow     137,050    202,970    150,298    168,530      188,735   202,763    251,314    24o,975    281,732    275,597   290,229    275,597    258,518    281,732    275,597    290,229
CASH OUTClOW
Capital Inreetnente 2               120,959    168,925     99,265     28,059       3,916     9,459     29,238      4,410     25,779      3,638    10,900     29,302     22,668     25,844      3 723     14,100
Conn Plantations V                    4,423     13,936     16,164     33,921      40 767   51 888    63,111       60,022    6, 406    60,224    62,199    62,5913    59,502        61,886     59,696     62,199
Feotory. VarimabeEp- noie              --d-                  --        64o        i,8        2945    16,o46       15,386     17,16      1673      17,682     16,793     15,384     17,165     16,793     17,682
Hnlaseee (Traeosortation and
E..ioe Tan)                          __        __         __        2,479        3,784     4,861     6,o24      5,776      6,396       6,292     6,642      6,292      5,768      6,297      6,292      6,643
OperatIng Enpnsee                     4,724      7,150     04,199     27,967      30,560    30,536     30,306     30,186        30,186    32,186       30      ,86      30,186 30,186         30,186     30 186
Hanageoeent Fee - Variable 2/          --         --         --         --         1,205     2,410      3 240      2,700      4,360      4 ,i40    4,700      4,170      3,300      4,400      4,18o       4,720
In-vntory Increaea J                  1,525      2,425      1,050      1,000       1,000      --        --         -_          --         _-        __         __         __         __         __         __
Payment (Differential) for
o0tgr-ers' Sugaroane J               --- 7-                          9,040      i6,o88    22,989     37,082     40,095     40,095     40,095    4o,o95    40,095      4o,o5      40,o95     40,099     40,095
Inreosn Tax                            --         --        --         --          --        --         --         --         --          -       24,107     28.468     22.607     32.127     31.2U      33.910
Subt.tol              131,431    192,436    130,678    108,878      207,500   135,088    185,047    158,575    186,387    161,365   i96,51     217,897    208,510    218,000    192,176    209,535
Intereet Pay=enti J/
World BRan                           __          270      5,533     10,534      13,782    13,437     12,748     12,059     11,370     10,681     9,992      9,303      8,614      7,925      7,236      6,547
Supplier, Credit - Gernany          --          -          -        11,026       4,072     3,509     0,946       2,387      1,804      1,263       842       -           --                    --
Suppliere Credit - India             --                             10 205       3,7002    3,190      2,678      2 170     1,658      1,148        765
Eoropea.  I-veti-ent BSnk           p,oo4      5,196      6,574      6,574       6,574     5,917      5,260      4,6o3      3,946      3,289     2,632      1,975      1,318        66i        __
Exi=bank/P.E.F.C /Hartford            711      1,645      1,760      1,564       1,172       T80        388        196       --         __        __         __         __         __          __        __
EUnt Afric  Develop=ent BROk          668      1,732      2.192      2,192       2,192     1,879      1,566      1.253        940        627       314       --         --         __         _-         _-
Subtotal                3,383      8,843     16,059     42,295       31,494    28,712     25,586     22,668     19,738     17,008    14,545     11,278      9,932      8,586      7,236      6,547
Ln CosGit=ent Fee _/
World BRok                            984        965        589        232         116      --         _-         -_         --         __        __         __         __         __          __         __
Eni.baok/P.E.F.C./Hartford             69        17       -_          __          __        --         __         __         __         __        __         __         __         __          __         __
Eaet African Develop=ent Bank         139        418      --          --          --        --         --         -_         --         __        __          _         __         __          __        __
Subtotal                 1,192      i,40o       589         232         116      --         --        --          --         --        __         _-         __         __         __         __
lone Repayment W/
World Bank                           --         --        --          --                   63 6,563   6,563      6,563      6,563      6,563     6          6,563      6,563      6,563       6,563      6,562
SuFplieri Credit - Gernany          -- -_                 __         7,050       7,050     7,050      7,050      7,050      7,050      7,050     7,050       __         __
Suppliers Credit - Indic            --         __         __         6,381       6,381     6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381      6381      6 331       _-         __         __          __        __
European Ieesitcent Bank                                                                  io __  __  __  -_  10,956  10,956  10,956  10,956  102956    12,956  10,956  10,956    10,956      10,956       -
E.inb-nk/P.E.F.C./Hartferd           __         __        2,177      4,354       4,354     4,354      4,354      2,177       --         --        __         _-         __         __          __         __
Tant African Deoelopnont Bank        __         __         _                               2,846      2,846      2.846      2,846      2,846     2,846      2,846       --         --         --         --
Subtotal                 --         --        2,177      17,785      17,785    38,150     38,150     35,973     33,796     33,796    33,796    20,365      17,519     17,519      17,519     6,562
Total Cash outflow    136,006    202,679    149,503    169,190      156,895   201,950    248,783    217,216    239,921    212,172   244,802    249,540    226,961    244,105    216,931   222,644
SURPSUS/(DEFICIT)                       1,064        291        795       (660)     31,840       813      2,531     23,759     41,811     63,422    45,427     26,o57      31,557     37,627     58,666     67,585
Speeia- ee C. 01 Bance                 --        i,064      1,355      2,150       1,490    33,330    34,143      36,674    60,433    102.244   165,666    211,093    237,150    268.707    306,339    365,000
CUMJIATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)            1,064      1,355      2,150      1,49o      33,330    34,143     36,674     6o,433    102,244    165,666   211,093    237,150    268,707    306,334    365,000    432,585
The  -ash flow p-ojentions are eopressed in currnt pricen, i.e  including price contingencles, and
are conieitent oith the ProJect coot estiiates (Aneo 15).
2    Based on ex-mill asgar prices of KSh. 4,131/t in Year 4 -nd KShI. 4,419/t tn Year 5 and thero-fter.
Includes inveetnents in the factory, agriculture, adminisitrtiin, houoing, nd ConpaPy-relnted reearobh.
Inoludes expenditures related tn nucleon eatate mad cutgrcovrs cogarcane de-elcpent, ecluding depreciation.
F- Table 6, plus price contizgencdie,.
- Incldes spar parts, tools and opera.tinS mteftels..
- Table 7, Footote 7.
F 2cr terns of loan, see Table 19
January 20, 1977



KENYA                                 ANNEX 20
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT                       Table 10
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 60,000 TONS  /
(KShs. Millions)
Caiital Costs                                     Recurrent Costs
Initial       Replacement                                                             Net
Year           Investment      of Capital  Total             Revenues  Variable   Non-Variable   Benefit
2/            Items                          3/     Costs 4/       Costs 5/
1               119            --          119                --         --             4             (4)
2               162            --          162                --         --             6             (6)
3                87            __            87               __         -_           12             (12)
4                21            --            21               78         36           21              21
5                 3             -             3              112         52           21              39
6                 1             5             6              143         67           21              55
7                 7            12            19              178         90           21              67
8                --             3             3              170         91           21              58
9                --            17            17              199         98           21              80
10                --              2            2              195         96            21             88
11                --              7            7              205         99            21             85
12                --             19           19              195         98            21             76
13                --            15            15              179         92            21             66
14                --            17            17              199         97            21             81
15                --              2            2              195         95            21             79
16                --              9            9              205         99            21             85
17                --            22            22              195         98            21             76
18                --              6            6              179         92            21             66
19                --            16            16              199         97            21             81
20                --              3            3              195         95            21             79
21                --             6             6              205         99           21              85
22                --            19            19              195         98           21              76
23                --              3            3              179         92            21             66
24                --            16            16              199         97            21             81
25                --              3            3              195         95            21             79
Financial Rate of Return
Basic                                  11%
Sugar Price Minus 5%                    9%
Sugar Price Minus 10Z                   7%
Sugar Price Minus 15%                   5%
10% Increase in Variable Costs          9%
10% Increase in Non-Variable Costs 10%
10% Increase in Capital Costs          10%
One Year Delay in Output                9%
1/ All costs and revenues expressed in constant (March) 1977 prices.
2   Includes investments in agriculture, the sugar factory, Company administration,
Company research, housing and social amenities and Company Nucleus Estate roads.
3/  Includes proceeds from sale of sugar at KShs. 3,050/t and molasses at KShs. 350/t.
4/ Expenses directly related to agricultural and factory operations and cane purchase
from outgrowers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent overhead costs.
January 20, 1977



rINYA
SOUTH NYANMFR5OAR PROJECT
S0OUTH NYANZA S005R liBrARY
INCOst STATE32NT PROJECTIONS, IN ~CONETANT PRICES WITS A FACTORtY CAPACITY OF 90,000 TOES i
( KSh.. '00M)
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3    Year 4       Tsar 5   Tear 6       Year 7    Year 8      Year 9      Year 10  Tear 11    Year 12    Year 13   Year 14    Year 15~  year 16
NAEIC PRODUCTION DATA
Sugarcae   Nucleus Estate ('000 t)                                        11-- -- i4   163       194        163        114        176         163       194        163         1i4        176        163         194
-Otgrosr       (00)--                  --          --O t       132         iSO       257         396        422        534        600        635        686        686        686         686        686
Total  ogaroene ('000 t)    -2-                    -            46         351       451         559        536        710        763        829        849        Boo         862        849        880
Sugar                          (I)      --         -          -         4,6oo      35,100    45,100      55,900     53,60      7450        8,1         ,45      8,4        844c         0,018,55               c,c
Molasases()                             -           -         -           ,0        1290    16.69o    2oo68o        1980        s.7         820       060       3.1          9600      3.9         1.30      9,6
Seleof Sugar2             -                        --         -        75,030     107,055   137,555    170,495    163,480    227,378    044,351   065,487    272,890    256,200    274,500    271,892    274,5OD
Sale of Molasses 2/  --         --          --        3.185~~~~~~ill  4.54.7    5,82    7,238      6.91       9.194      9.880    10.34       10.        1.6         n.i        10994      n,6
Total Aevenue   --   --     --       78,215      111,602   11.~~~~~~~3,39'   177,73  170,41    03657    204,031   216,'221    2r0,g4      66560    285,661    210,8        08,8
VARIABLE EXPENSES
ProducEtion 2/   g-`--                                                12,084      15,930    17,719      15,344     11,51-5    16,327      15,349    17,34      14,1        1,18       15,63  4663            17,055
Outgrovare  Sugarane Purhase 2/        2-          -           -        oo,46o      29,140    39,835     61,380     65,4io      82,77o     93,000    98,425    106,330    3(16330    106,330    106,330    106,330
PaCtory COats                            -         --         -          4,994       7,105     9,155     11,342      10,801     1513        6,063    17,670      1,9        1702       18,374      18,097     1,5
Molass.es OTransrst and E-etes
Tax) 6]-                                          -         -          ,7          .7        ..3         .6         ,8         .           .1       6,318       .7         6.09       656        6.470      6,7
Subtotal   --          --         --       5~~~~~~~~~~9,1.13  54,871    730,147  90,233  91,81     1962    1301R07   1978          1.5,3        6,2        1697        1557      14,6
Variable Margn                          --         -           -       38,802       56,731    73,250     85,4oi     78,530    116,930    123,804) 136,663    137,048    125,932)   138,705    137,329    137,047
(As Percent t  Revnu)                --          -           -          (50)         (51)      (51)       (48)       (46)        (49)       (49)      (49)       (48)        (47)       (49)        (49)       (48)
NON-VARIARLE EXPENSES
FactorY                                  720      1:,309     4,3pp     11,080       10,914    10,91      10,796     10,714      10,714     10,714    10,714      10,714     10.714     10,714      10,714     10,714
Genera  Adnlnt-tiamo                   2,048      3,21       5,6        7,770        7,843     7,84       7,843      7,843       7,843      7,843     7,843       7,843      7,843      7,8143      7,843      7,843
Trai.i.g                                  37        149        007         393         323       267        267         267        267        267       267         267        267        267         267        267
Research                                 477        627        627        627          627       627        607        627         627        627       6o7         627        637        627         637        627
Maoagseet Fee (Non-'jariabl)           1,121      1,121      1,1.21      1,010       1,210     1,210      1,210       1,010      1,210      1,210     1,210       1,210      1,210       1,210      1,210      1,210
DeTrec.attin 2./                         748      1.497      2.737     2.1 2       21.9       21,99      24.7       24172 04 4.1702         4.7 24,172          04,172 24.172    24.      170 24    .1724:2   24,12
Subtotal          ~~~~5,153   7,977     15,6        4295        4,7        280        495        4,3        44,833     4,33    1.483         1.833      44,833     44,8533     44,833     4,3
Manag--et Pee (Variable )I               -          -         --          --          852      175        000        190          .9         ,o        .8         4.890      425go      4.2c                   491
Operational Margin         (~~_5,1-53)    (7,977)   (15,o56)    (4123)    13,03       872        8,9       31,77       6,03       747.    86744        87,905      76,814     88,89      87,5%       87,301
(As Percent of Re-ecse               ((          ((         ()          (-5)         (12)      (20)       (21)       (19)        (29)       (09)      (31)       (31)        (29)       (31)        (31)       (31)
TINTEREST
Paynente 9/                 ~~~~~~ ~~4,575  10,243  i6,648    42,527      31,610    28,712     27,581      24,663     19,738     17,008    i4,545    3fl,278       9,932       8,586      7,036      6,547
Receipts 1g/                            --         --          -        109          1490       ,O43      3.48       3,355       4.245      4.s77     5.048      5.451        .s        5.453      5.4s0       5.450
Su.bt.tal                4,7       10,243      16,64      4.1,478     30,"1151   226,669    04,433     01.508     15,493      12,238     9,49       5,80         24,7      3,3_176                 ,9
Inoane Refers fta.                    (9,708)   (18,220)   (31,704)   (45,601)    (17,112)    2,o56      13,761      10,479     52,714     62,508    77,247      81,501     70.336     85,75       8sSi       8620
Ioors Tax ju                            -         --          -           -           -         -          -           -                    8,6i8    34,761     36.675      901,551    38. 92    381          38,79W3
Net Incoa               (9,726)   (18,220)   (31,704)   (45,601)    (17,112)    1,056       13,761     10,4k79     52,714     53,890    412,486     44,826     39,785     47,167'   47,190       47,414
(As. Percent of Revnu),-.-(                      ()         (-58)       (-15)      .(14) I      (8)        (6)       (22)        (21)      (is)       (1.6)       (13)       (vi')      (17)        (17)
(As Percent of EquIty)    (.          -          .4         (.           .           (1         (7)        (5)       (07)        (27)      (22)       (03)        (00)       (24)        (24)       (24)
Ccoulativ  Nest Inco-ne   (9,728)   (27,948)   (59,652)  (115,253)   (120,365) (100,309)  (186,548)   (96,o69)   (43,355)    10,535    53,021      97,847    137,630    184,799    031,994   379,408
SPEAK-EVEN ANALYSIS
a)  oluding Ictsresi
Break-Eve  Sales Value 1/         --          --         -        86,525       84,347    83,826     93,475      97,294     90,786     99,918    90,749      90,542     94,897     90,333      90,352     93,527
Break-Even Sugar Price Value 13]   -          --         -         3,517       0,403      1,8s9      1,670       1,815      1,217      1,047     1,043       1,o36      1,130      1,o26       1,036      1,039
Breek-Eren '000 6 of SUgar Th      -          --         -8.4                      07.7      27.5       30.6        31.9       29.7       32.8       29.8       30.3       31.1        30.3       30.3       30.7
b)     E1eiSIiVale                    -          --         -       170,135     143,590   136,034    144,324    143,535    122,151    117,195   109,972    io4,563   104,376         98,785      96,231     90,81!5
BreakE-En Cane Prc  Yalu          -- 1                   -         6,916        4,o91     3,016      2,582       2,678      1,637      1,463      1,263      1,173      1,043       1,098      1,077      1,865
Re-k-Ev,en '000 t of Sugar        --          --         -            55 0         47.1      44.6       47.3       47.1        4o.o       38.4       36.1       34.3       34.2        32.4       31.5       31.4
T/heb moon  otteoest p-r-tiecloo oe expreo...d in cunatant (Mar0h) 1977 Prioca and are cooltent with tho Pso7ect coot octintate
(Ano.o 15), balanc  sheet prCojetion, (Table 12 ( nod caoh fico projoticue (Tablo 13)
V/ Yalud at IlSho. 3,050/t.
3/ 'Valued at KShs. 350/t (f.o.b. Motaa)..
R]Npraxeat  toial  -cc of produtioa of  ugar-n  on the nucleu  estate.
Value of suacn  porha..ed fran  etgr--sr  at KOhe. 155/t.                                                                                                                                                        m
Inclde  exise tan (KShe. 6/t), and tranport charge  (Ernhe. 10/t.) fro  the factory to deckolde Oneboe.                                                                                                              C
I/ locdee depreIation of factory, geneal adoiitratien, rec..rc  coh   d boucOg  -ooto.
Ca1lculted at 5% of net operating profit, before all1ciog for depre-latico; the coctractu1 mini-c charge uf K0h.. 338,000/year is
included to the os--Arlblo portion of the foe
2/F-n  Table 13. includiog loan coositnent fe..
it/ ..t.ret payoeote by sutgreu-r, based 0011% asua  Octores.t on the voi.e of .ervlce  and inputs provided by tie Conpany.
il/ Calculated at 45% of operting ieniem adte interen.t.
/Repraeosts the revro- at ,bd,Oh the variable  -agin eou1e no-vaiable ecpeao.
kRgpveent.te as-nga ri-1c  at Mthithe v,ar-Iable oargl  q0c'1s  o-aibe.osoe
ER spr-senta the quaotity of sg-r pr..vodcd ('000 t( at uhlch tie vuiable margin coel non-variable oPeonco..
Ja,nuary 20, 19377



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
STN NYANZbA SGR COPAwf
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTIONS, WITTH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 90,000 TONS, IN CONSTANT PRICES 1/
(KShs. '000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4       Year 5   Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10  Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Year 15   Year 16
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                       34,549    62,149    90g,60   387,938    390,460  429,958   450,171   453,029   469,736   472,094  479,923    500,309   516,225   532,974   535,387   545,290
Lees Depreciation                 2,872      8,946    16,385    45,875       75,684  105,646   139,374   173,436   207,498   241,560  275,741    309,948   344,400   378,852   413,304   447,709
Construction in Progress           84 437   218.714   276,850        --          --        --        --         --              --
Subtotal              116,114   271,917   350,525    342,063    314,776  324,312   310,797   279,593   262,238    230,534  204,182   190,361    171,625   154,122'  122,0433    97,5431
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate.- Plantation |      3,428    13,110    23,153    26,735       25,396   23,393    24,035    26,373    25,546       24,181   22,174    22,844    25,542    25,504    24,459    22,686
Accounts Receivable - Outgrowers ]/ 2,952   10,234    18,041    22,997       28,149    34,744    39,900    44,907    47,202      48,o47    48,471    47,163     46,269    45,746      45,746    45,746
Other Inventories 9/               1,525     3,950      5,000     6,ooo       7,000    7,000      7,000      7,000     7,000      7,000    7,000      7,000      7,000      7,000     7,000      7,000
Cash and Bank Bslance ut           3.323    12,881     31,790    32.458      50,965      743      5.071      1,436    17.241    69,559  106,234    145.,16    184, 14    232,o66   294.835   361,953
Subtotal               11,828    48,175    77,98314    8843,190    111,510   65,88430    74,006    79,716_ 96,9439   1443 ,7b7  1433,4379   222,163    262,945    310,316    372,031 237,385
Less Current Liabilities,
Short-Term Loans and
Accounts Payable                   --         --         --        --          --                19,000    19,000        --        --        --         --        --         --         --        --
Net Working Capital                 11,228    40,175     77,984    88,190     111,510   65,880    55,006    60,716       96,989    148,787   183,879   222,163   262,965    310,316    372,031   437,385
Net Assets            127,342    312,092    428,509   430,253    426,286   390,192   365,803   340,309    359,227    379,321   388,061   412,524    434,790   464,438    494,114   534,966
LIABILITIES
Long-Term Debt /
World Bank                         --        2,570    52,690    100,320     131,250   124,687   118,124   111,561    104,998     98,435    91,872     85,309    78,746     72,183    65,620    59,058
Suppliers Credit - Germany       17,200     44,600    56,400     49,350      42,300    35,250    28,200    21,150      14,100     7,050      --         --
Suppliers Credit - India         15,500    40,250    50,998    44,617        38,236    31,855    25,474     19,093     22,732     6,331      --         --
European Investment Bank          33,400    86,600   109,560   109,560    109,560   98,604    87,648    76,792    65,736         54,780    43,824    32,868    21,912    10,956         --        --
Eximbank                          7,900    18,280    19,593    15,239        10,885    6,531      2,177
East African Development Bank     6,o70     15,740    19,920    19,920       19,920   17,074    14,228    11.382        8.536     5.690    2.814        --        --         --
Total Long-Term Debt   80,070   208,040   309,161   339,oo6    352,151  314,001   275,851   239,878    206,o82    172,286   138,540    118,177    100,658    83,139    65,620    59,058
EET liORTR
Company Equity                     57,000    132,000    179,000    196,500    196,500   196,500   196,500    196,500    196,500    196,500   196,500    196,500    196,500    196,500    196,500    196,500
Income From Operations 6            (9 728)  (27.948) _(59652)  (105,253)   (122,365) (120,309)  (106,548)  (96,069)  (43,355)   10535    53.021    97,847    137,5632   184.799   231,994   279,408
Total Ret Worth        47,272    104,052    119,348    91,247     74,135    76,191    89,952    100,431    153,145    207,035   249,521   294,347    334,132    381,299    428,494   475,908
Total Net Worth
Plus Liabilities      127,342    312,092    428,509   430,253    426,286   390,192    365,803    340,309    359,227   379,321   388,061    412,524   434,790    464,438    494,114   534,966
Long-Term Debt
Equity Ratio                     58:42      61:39      63:37     63:37       64:36    62:38      58:42      55:45      51:49      47:53    41:59      38:62      34:66     30:70      25:75      23:77
The balance sheet projections are expressed in constant (March) 1977 prices and are consistent with the ProJect cost
estimates (Annex 15) and the income statement (Table 6 ).
2  Includes net investments in sugarcane (current value less production cost of sugarcane); excludes the value of land.
Represents the net value of services and inputs provided to outgrowers, including Company overhead costs allocated to outgrowers.
Includes spare parts, tools and operating materials.
/ Calculated from Table 13.
From Table 11.
January 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH5 RTANZASUGA-R SHR-PAN if
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 90,000 TONS, IN CONSTANT PRICES
(Kghs. 'TOO)
Yer I    yer 2    yer 3    Year 4          Year 5   Yer 6    ye r7    Yer 8    Year 9    Yer 10  Yef 11   Yer 12   Yer 13   Yes 14   Year i5   YeTr 16
CASH INFISO
Equity - Coverrnt                  36,550    47,350    44,650    16,450 o        -        --        -_         --        --         --       --         --         --         --        --         --
- Government (World Sank
ln)                     17,600    23,900       --         --         --        --        --         --         --        --        __         __        __         __         __        __
- The Mehta Group            2,850      3,750     2,350      1,050       --        --        --         --         --        --        --         --        --         --        --         --
Revenoe Prom operations 2J           --         -          -       79530155  i.6o0   143,397    177;733    170.421    236.55772    25544231 276 ,71 282 884 266 56 7 231      661 2862836 2  828
Subtotal              57,000    75,000    47,;00      95,'7'15    1160    13,3       177,733   170,421    236,572   256,3      7,2        8,5        6,6       8,6        9,8        9  9
World Hedk                         --       2,570    50,120    47,630       30,930      --        -_         --         --        --        --         --        --         --        --         -
SCoppliers Credit - Germay       17,200    27,400     11,800      --          --        -          -         -          -         -          -        -           -         -          --
Supplier, Credit - India         15,500    24,750     10,748
Europeen Inveetment Hak          33,400    53,200    22,960        --         --        --        --         --        --         --        --         --        -- o-                --         --
Edibank/P.E.F.C./Hartford         7,900    10,380      3,490       --         --        --        -          --         --        __        _-         --        __         --        __         __
East African Development Bank     6.o70     9,670      4,180       --         --        --        --         --         --        --        --         --        -_         --         __        __
SHort Taco l~oan                    -        --         --                    --        -         9000       -          -         -          -         -          -         -           --
Subtotal              o0,070   127,970    103,298    47,630       30,930     --      .199000      -                     -                                        --         __         _
Total CTah IDfl0      137,070   200,970   150,298   143,345    142,532   143,397   196,733    170,421    236,572   254,231   276,221   282,886    266,560   285,661   282,886   285,996
CASH OTFL5 W
Capitl. lnYsetaeats 3/            118,986   161,877    86,047      21,028      2,522    6,130    18,948       2,858     16,707     2,358     7,829    20,386     15,916    16,749       2,413      9,903
Capital Imeat_ntes - Erpanndo
Caatly (Wgriculture & fPatort)    --           --       --         --         --      33,368     1,264      1,209      5.738     8,270    10,235            --         --              -         -
Cne Plntation  - Nucleus
Eet&e                             1,937      6,492     6,SO1    11,269      10,248    11,389    1,66o       9,526     11,173     9,657    11,021     11,292      9A,58    10,803      9,269     11n
Ca  Ptln ain  - Obtlre  e           2,319     5,895      6,347     14 .7      17,912    24,453    31,934     31,934    315934    31,934    31,934    43 708    43 708    413708   463,708    453,767
pkc.tery Vardatble NEpe..e.          --         --        --        496        7,125     9,155    11,348     1o,881    15,133    16,269    17,670    18,096'    17,052    38,374    18,9qt    3A,177
Molasses (Transportatioo and
ERcise Tam)                        --                             1,875      2 676    3,438      4,260      4,085      5,412     5,81    6,338       6.470     6 oR8      6,569      6,470      6,7r
Operating  papeas                   4,405     6,480    12,319    21,082       20,917   20,861    20,743    20,661    20,61    2o,661   2o,661    20,661    20o661    20,661    20,66i    20,661
Masgnear.t Pee - Variable 2/         --         --     ..--          --          852     1,705     2,292      1,910      3,890     4,225     4,886      4,890     4,285      I1,980     4,900      4c910
Iner-tory Increase J                1,525     2,425      1,050      1,000      1,000      --        --         --         __        --        --         --        --         --         -- _
Pay-et (Differential) fur
Outgroere' Sugercene /             --        -_         __        6,838     11,378    16,258    26,225    28,356      37,585     43,308              50,940    50,142    5o,682    51,206    51,209    51,219
I Sbtote1               129,172    183,169   112,564    82,365      76,630  126,757   12H,b74   111,420    16,233   151,19   191,055    2  .l 3200,                          38
Interest Psmets 2/
World PHak                         __          270     5,533     10 534     13,782    13,437    12,748     12,509    11,370    lo,68i    9,992        9,303      8,614     7,925      7,236      6,547
SHpplisre Credit - Germa-ny        --         --        --       11,226      4,072     3,509     2,946      2,387      1,824     1,263       842       --        --         --         --         -
Suppliers Credit - India           -     -         -- .          10,205      3,702    3,190      2,678      2 170    1658       1,148       765            --     __       __         _
Eur.paw I estt dank               2,700o4   5,196     6,574      6,574      6,574    5,917      5,260      4,663      3,946     3,289    2,632       1,975      1,318       661
ZAte/.N..C./HNettord           711     i,645      1,760      1,564      1,172       780       388        196       .-        --        --                    ---
East Afriam  Developeat Rank        668      1,732     2,192      2,192      2,192     1,879     1,566      1,253        940       627       314       --         _         __         _          _
2hort-T550 I0u          .-                    --        --         --         .-   1   -.                                          -        -    _         _ _        __ _
subltetl               3,353      8,843    16,059    4S,295       31,494   28,712    27          243       19,738    17,008   IA,585    11,27T        9,932      8,556      7,236     6,WT
la  C -.mn_rt F 2
World IIU*                          984        965       589        232        n16      __         --                   -- _  __  _         __         __         _ 
flitbMe/P R.F.C./frrtfnrd            69         17      --         --         -_        _-         -_        __         _         __        __         __         __        __         _ 
ERat Afrian Deslopset Bak           139        418      --         --         -.        --         -.        -.         .          --       -.         --         --                   --         --
Subtotal                1,192     1,600        509       232         116     __         __         __        __         __        __        _-         __         __        __         __
Com Repayment 2/
World Rskox                                                        --         --       6,563     6.563      6,563      6,563     6,563     6,563      6,563      6,563     6,563      6,563      6,562
2upplier Credit  G Germ-ny         --         --        --        7,050      7,050    7,050      7,050      7,050      7,050     7,050     7,050       __         __        __         __         __
Suppliers Credit  I Jodia          --        --         --        6,381      6,381    6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381     6,381     6,331       --         __        __         __
Ennopean Iarestaat Bank            --         __        --         __        -_       10 956    10,956     10,956    l0,956      10,956    10,956    10,956    lo,956    10,956    10,956         __
WeiabskP E. F. C.C/Hmrt frd        __         __       2,177      4,354      4,354    4,354       4,354     2,177       --
East African D-velapcsent Bank     __                              -- -_ p__   _                  2,846 2,846          2,846     2,846     2,846 22,846           --        .-
Short TGrm Loas                    __         __        __         __         __        __         __        __       19000        __       __         __         __        __         _ 
ubtotal                 --         --       2,177     17,787      17,785    38,150    98,150       35,973  52,976     33,796    33,769    20,365    17,519      17,519     17,519     6,129
Total Csh Outflow     133,747    193,4i2   131,389   142,677    124,o25   193,619   194,405    172,056    220,767    201,913   239,546    243,964   227,562    237,749   220,117    218,778
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                     3,323      9,558    18,909        668     18,507   (50,222)    2,328     (1,635)   15,805     52,318    36,675     38,922     38,998    47,912    62,769      67,311
Opening CTnh Balace                  --        3,323     11,881    31.790      32,458    5.965        743     3.071      1,436    17.241    69.539   106.234   145.156   184,154    232.066   294.835
CDNOATIVS SiNPWSI/(DEFTCIT)           3,323     12,881    31,790    32,458      50,965       743      3,071     1,436     17,241    69,559   126,234    145,156   184,54    232,o66    294,835    361,953
h .m cash flee projectine ana e-prePesed in onstant (Merch) 1977 prices  nd re oumintent  kith the ProJect cost enl.matee (Annex 15),
balance sheet p-rjsctione (Table 11), mod iSnooe uttete-t psjo-ttons (Tible 11).
F Pro  Table 11.
3/ Includes ineesteeta in the factory, agrictlture, einiatrtlon, hcutiag, ad Copny-related research.
Includm the -I..e cf s-rcice -d inputr prov-dod to outgrovers, enludiog depre-katio..
S/ From Table II.
GIcludes spare pare, tools and operating oteorials.
if  Represente differntil bet.een the value of -gercane t Khls. 15S/t and the cost to the Company of services and mputo provided to
out9rnoer- including interest on the 0ompany  ooin to uutgro-ero co-erlog that cost
8/ Frma Tble U.
F/ Fcr tse-e of 1lucs see Table 19.
January 20, 1977



I E(A
.2175T 005020,, SLGARPHrOJECT
lOUTSH051 N  crAl-Ah-UG   CYMPOY
Year 2  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  YearS    ~~~~ ~~Yea 6       7er   Year 8     SerJSe             D1  Year I1    YerI          er1        er1         er1        er1
Sqolto    -    'OoCe,Oneai   3~~~~~6,551  47,350    44.6>)     16,45o          -         -           --                     --                     --                     --                     --
--ooecet  W-lrd Seal
L-a)                       i7,610     03,9020        -          -            -         -           -          -           -                      -          -           --                     --
-TeMelht  Grop               2,SBso      3,7500     2,350       1,050        -          -          -            -          -           -         -
t.oOI5700                           5,0       47.000    120,900      157,605   201,7633                            33,0       35,3       39.7       40,0        3691          393      40,0        40,7
Worldi Ras                             --       2, 570     501) 20     47,63Y)      30,930       -          -           -          -           -         ,.-                     --                      --
loPplor  Crdt- esa                  17,200       7,4o00       : ,18oo    --           -          -          -           -          -           -         -            --                     ---
Ssppflcre Uredit - India   ~~~15,500   24,75o     10,7468        -           -          -          -           -          -          -           --                     --                     --
Carapea  la-eta..at Bash            33,4oo      53,300     22,6           -            -        -           -           -          --          -          -           --                    -            --
RaehahY   F.C.H./hatfa-d        7,900     10,361       3,491       -             -        -            -          -          -            -        -           -            --                     --
SFat Afr,ica  Serelpepat Rank        6,o7o       3,670      4,18o         -           -          -          -          -            -          -                      -           --                     --
ih-rt Teem Inn                        -                       -          --          -        21-0500      -            -          -           -         -            --                     --                
jabtatal          0~~~~~0,0570    125,9570    103,296  47,630     30,930    03f, 000      -           -           -          -         -            -
Ta~tal Cah IaClew       137,070    0021,970    150,298    068,530      183,536   224,763    p5i,3i4    040,975    334,513    359,46    390,576    4006 ~              i
COASH OUTSFLOW
Capital Iaaest,aets 3/                120,959    068,925      99,265     28.059        3,9)6I    9,459      29,238       4,4io     25,579       3,638    12,080      31,456      24,5s8     25,844       3,723      15,280
CapacitY (AgrIeslt-s  & Factory)       --         --          --         --           --      51,487       1,950       o,85       8 ,640     12,747    159,779       --          --          --         --          --
C-as  o'aaattaaa .                      4,423     13,936      i6,i64     33,920       40.767    51,888      63,111      60,0752    62,570      60,501    62,443      79,623      76,534     78,918      76,724.    79,200
F-ctery Variable NEpanaca                --         --          --        6,412       io,t8o    ts,945      16,046      15.386     20,380      21,901    03,796      24,370      20,963     24,744      24,370      25,255
Malasee.. (Treas,ertatiaa and
E-ciac Tax)                           --          -                     2,479        3,784     4,861       6,024       5,776      7,653       8,220     8,934       9,149       8,623      9,289       9,149       9,484
Operating impeasa                       4,s24      7,150      14,190     07,967       30,560    30,536      30,3o608       l 30,186      30,1 86    30,186     30,186      30, 186     30,186      30,186     30,36  3,66
Mmnmgaaet Pee - Variable 2.1             --         --          --         --          1,005      2,41o      3,240       4,700      3,500       5,9574     6,910      6,915       6,o6o       7,040      6,930       6,940
Ia--taryic .ac..ea  1                  0,525      2,425       1,050      1,000        1,000       --         --          --         --          --         --         -----                                           -
Paymet (Diffeeetial) far
Ooge,r'Ogar-a...--                          --         -          9,040       16,o88    22,989      37,002     40,095      53,045     61,238    64,959       70,900     71,664      72,405      72,410      72,410
Ia-ee Tax-                                           -          -          --           --        --          --          --         --        1-2183    49.152      51.856B    46. o2Z    54.5369    54.6e         54 85
Saht.te1                131,430    192,436    130,678    100,8506    107,500   086,575    186,995    443,480    214,053    216,592   274,239    304,457    20,15              32,995)   9f0,09'    293,6b28
Iateceat Ps~aeata ~                                                                                                                                                               86
W-rOd Rank                             -*          250~      1,533     10,534       13,182    03,437      12,748      12,059     10,370      10,681     9,993       9.303       864         7,905      7,236       6,547
lappliera Credit - ermaaw.             --         -           -        10,226        4,072     3,509       0,946      3,387       i,824       12,63        84a       ---                      --                     -
5O.pooiere Credit - Yaie               -          --                   10,205        3,702     3,190       2,679       0,170      1,658       i,148        765        --          -           ----
P..rcpaa. Oave.tm,net Peel           0,4(4       j,191       4,574      6,574        6,02,,4    5,917      5,,o6o      4,6o3      3,946       3,289      2,632      1,955       1,336         661        --
EaabeaS/!P, . P .9Y/Nrfcd               i        i,645       1,760      i,564        1, 172      7?80        388         196       -           -         -            --                     --                     -
EAst Africa  Oemnlp.ent Peak            /0       1,73        2,192      2,192        1,091'    0,879       i,566       1,253        940         695        314       -            --                     --
Soart Term TAmaa                       --        --          --          --           --       2.10        2:         26             8      l            4 --   --         --
Subt.ta1                  3,3631      8,843     16,059      42,295      31,949    31,022                               9.73      17,006    1-,55        11,05       9,932       8,586       7,236       6,347
lean Cnoteen  PeU984                                965         589        232          116       -           -          -           -          -           --                     --                      --
Nbsmbeaik/P.E.F.C./H.rtfsrd              59         1?        --          --          --         -           -          --         -           -          -          --                       --                     -
East African Reelas..et Barl            1-39       4i81       --         -             -        -            -         -            -          -          -          -            --                     --
Ra,btatel                 1,92        1400         58          232          11        -          -          -            -          -         -            --                    -            -
dec,18 RaPvnkt-                                    -           -           -                     6,5,63     6,563       6,563      6,563       6,563      6,563      6,563       6,563       6,563      6,563       6,562
Sapplie-s Credit  G- Gray             7-          -           -          ,0C50       7,050      7, 050     7,050       7,050      7,053       5,050      7,050        --         --          --          --          --
oppIliern Credit -India                -          --          -         6,381        6,361      6,381      6,380       6,381      6,381       6,381      6,~33       -            -           ---
Earap-n Ia-etment Rank                 --         -            -         --           --       10,956     10,956      10,956     10,956      00,936    10,956      10,956      10,956      10,956      10,356        -
TEiinb-ak/P.R.F.C./Ra-tf-d             2-         -           ,177      4,354        4,354      4,354      4,354       2,175        --         --         --          --         --          -            --
East AfrIcan D-Ielp-et Rank            -          -           --         --           --        2,846      2,846       o,846      2,846       2,846      2,846      2,846        ---                                -
STh-t Ter   rs                         -           -         - - I--                            ----                 22,00         --          --         --         --                     -            --
Sohit.t.1                             -          2,1777     17,765'     17,785    38,150       38,150)    57,353'    33,796      33,796    33,746       20,-365     17,519     17,519      17,519       b,56
Tata1 Ce.. Costll       036,008    200,679    049,503    069,090       136,895   055,747T   233,043    241,lpl    267,587    267,396   302,530)   336.100    314,8)66    329,000    302,849 -306,737
A________EFICIT_                         1,084        291         795        (66o)     31,84o   (30,984)    (1,729)        (146)    66,929      92,086    68,o46       63,900     62,S5o      74,833      95,151      97,520
'Ip-iag Yeb ahRlacc                      --        1,084       1,355      2.150        1.490    33.330       2,346         61y         471     67.397  139.483    227,529    291,429    354.279    429.122    526.263
C  /ISLTTVE SOJPOPPU0/(IURFICIT)         i,o64      1,305t      2,151       1,490      33,330      2,346         617        471      67,335    159,483   227,529    290,429    354,279    429,012    586,263    623.783
'The cash flaw prjeetio-a are eapreeed ic coret pricer, i.e  i-nriodg Pricesataeaia
an -ae  aniteat With the Pr-ject  ..et estimates (A-..a 15).
ase  an e--till anger prices of Ka-I. 4,131/ti SnYear 4 and KShn. 4,419/t ia yea 5and thereafter
I/-Inedee i-retmeata Is tie. feotar,  gric-ltsre, adalnitr-ti-,, Passing, and Cempaay-rlntadeeer
T- ecldes  -eedtrsrlated to areeetate sad -rtgr...nr. -og-ee     deceispeent, earlodtagdproal.
Pra  Table ii, pl-e prOerauoo-e.E
7T/ ice Tahle 9, Feoteate 7.
IT/ Fer tanc of I.san as TbS, I),
anoonro oo, oar7



KENYA                              ANNEX 20
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT                    M-le 15
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 90,000 TONS 1/
(KShs. Million)
Capital Costs                                    Recurrent Costs
Initial     Replacement                                                              Net
Year           Investment    of Capital   Total             Revenue   Variable   Non-Variable   Benefit
2/          Items                           3/     Costs 4/    Costs  5/
1                119            --          119               --         --            4              (4)
2                162            --          162               --         --            6              (6)
3                 87            __           87               __         __           12             (12)
4                 21            --           21               78         36           21              21
5                  3            --            3              112         52           21              39
6                 34             5           39              143         67           21              55
7                  8            12           20              178         90           21             67
8                 --             3            3              170         91           21              58
9                 --            17           17              236        119           21              96
10                 __             2            2              254        130           21             103
11                 --             8            8              276        140           21             115
12                 --            20           20              283        147           21             115
13                 --            16           16              267        142           21            104
14                 --            17           17              286        147           21             118
15                 __             2            2              283        147           21             115
16                 --            10           10              286        149           21             116
17                 --            23           23              283        147           21             115
18                 --             8            8              267        142           21             104
19                 --            17           17              286        147           21             118
20                 --             3            3              283        147           21             115
21                 --             8            8              286        147           21             116
22                 --            21           21              283        149           21             115
23                 --             5            5              267        142           21             104
24                 --            17           17              286        147           21             118
25                 --             3            3              283        147           21             115
Financial Rate of Return
Basic                                    13.3%
sugar ?rice Minus 5%                     11.6%
Sugar Price Minus 10%                     9.8%
Sugar Price Minus 15%                     7.8%
10% Increase in Variable Costs           11.5%
10% Increase in Non-Variable Costs    12.9%
10% Increase in Capital Costs            12.1%
One Year Delay in Output                 11.3%
1/  All costs and revenues expressed in constant (March) 1977 prices.
2/ Includes investments in agriculture, the sugar factory, Company administration,
Company research, housing and social amenities and Company Nucleus Estate roads.
3/  Includes proceeds from sale of sugar at KShs. 3,050/t and molasses at KShs. 350/t.
4/  Expenses directly related to agricultural and factory operations and cane purchase
from outgrowers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent overhead costs.
Januar2r 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS /
(KShs.'000)
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3    Year 4       Year 5    Year 6      Year 7     Year 8      Year 9     Year 10
CASH INFLOW
World Bank Loan  /                  1,129       3,953      4,568      4,119       3,554        __--                  --          -- _ 
Government                            922      2,151       2,970      3,107       3,369     8,174       8,233      7,854      7,750       7,646
Total Cash Inflow      2,051      6,io4      7,538       7,226       6,923     8,174       8,233      7,854      7,750      7,646
CASH OUTFLOW |/
Purchase of Vehicles and
Equipment  /                        330        534          86        --                    213         376        101         101        101
Recurrent Costs 3/                  1,312       4,640      6,009      5,280       4,61o     4,610       4,610      4,61o       4,610      4,610
Training Not Directly Related  /      186         381        516        679         740       740         740        740         740         40
Subtotal               1,M28      5,555      6,611       5,959       5,350     5,563      5,726       5,451        5,451
World Bank Loan - Debt Service  /     102         458        869      1,240       1,560     1,456       1,352      1,248       1,144      1,040
- Commitment Fee      121         91         58          27          13       --          --         --         --          __
- Principal Repay-
ment 7/           --          ---                   --          --      1,155       1,155      1,155      1,155      1.155
Total Cash Outflow     2,051      6,104      7,538       7,226       6,923     8,174       8,233      7,854      7,750       7,646
j  Expressed in current prices for Years 1-5; in constant Year 5 (1981) prices thereafter.
2   Includes World Bank Loan US$ 301,000 for training not related to the Company (Annex 15, Table 19) and                                     E l1
US$ 1.79 million for KSA Project costs (Annex 15, Table 20).
3   From Annex 15, Table 20; includes price contingencies; excludes the cost of future expansion,
or programs for which KSA might act as implementing authority.                                                                              r 
/ From Annex 15, Table 19; includes price contingencies.
5/ Interest rate calculated on the basis of 9.0% per year on the disbursed amount
J Cbmmitment fee calculated on the basis of 0.75% per year on the undisbursed amount.
/ Principal repayment would be for a period of 20 years which includes 4.5 years of grace period.
January 20, 1977



KENYTA
SOUTH NYAZ;A SUUGA PROJECT
Total Project
Year I   Year 2   Year 3      Year 4   Year 5      (Years 1-)$        Year 6    year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year 11   Yer 12   Yesr 13   Yesr 14   year I5   Tear 16
KShs.U00  Millions
CASH INFLOW
Loan Disbursement 
World Bsnk                             19,480    35,280   59,930      55,390   37,420  207,500    25.0          --        --             --         --        __   __         __        __        __
African Development Bank (ADB)          3.540   13.710   17   0        7 120    3,650   45 650                            --        --        --         __        --        --         --        --        --
Subtotal                   23,020    48 990   77,560      62,510   41,070  253,10    35                                                      -         --        --         --        --        --         --
Taxes - Sugar Excise 3/                    --        __        __       32,521   49,631   82,152      9.9       63,771    79,043    75,790   105,414   113,283   123,082   126,051   118,776   127,260   126,051   127,260
_ Molasses Excise 2/                 --        --       --            73      110      183     --            142       176       168       223        240       261       267        252       271       267        2T7
- Company Income Teax 2/              -        --                   --       --       --        --          --        --                   --      12, 185    49,152    51,858    46,C27    54 569    54 6s2   S4 6t
- Other Duties and Taxes 3/ 5/     15,462    27,625   20,087       9,701    9,743   82,618    10.0        15,675 -  13,775    10,121    14,574    13,394    14,715    16,740    16 813    17 542    15 761    17,09
Interest Payments (Company)  /             -_         270    5,533      10,534   03,782   30,119     3.6        13,437    12,748    12,059    11,370    10,681      9,992      9,303     8,614     7,925      7,P26     6,1
Loan Commitment Fees 7/                     984        965      589        232      116    2,886      0.3         --        --        --         --        --        --         --        --        --         --        --
Repayment of Loans (Company) 7|            -          -_       __         __       __                            6.563     6.563     6,563      6,S63     6,563     6,563      6,563     6.563     6.563      6.563     6.562
Total Cash Inflow          39,466    77,850  103,769    115,571  114,452  451,108    54.3         99,588   112,305   104,701   138,1144   156,346   203,765   210,512   197,045   214,130   210,480   212,568
CASH OUTFLOW
Equity in SNSC                           54,150   71,250   44,65o       16,450     --    186,500    22.5          --        --         --        --        --         --        --        --         --        --        --
Financing of KSA and Non-Project
Related Training V/                     1,828      5,555    6,611      5,959    5,350   25,303      3.0        5,563     5,726     5,1451     5,451     5,451     5,451      5,1451    5,451     5,451      5,451     5,451
Grant to National Sugar Research
Institute  /                              297      3,393    2,840      1,584    1,777    9,891      1.2        2,371     2,470     2,057      1,777     1,777     2,371      3,808     2,057      1,777     1,777     2,371
Construction of Roads 2/                  4,430    17,294   22,641      10,835    4,996   60,196      7.3        4,996     4,996      4,996     4,996     4,996      4,996     4,996     4,996      4,996     4,996     4,996
Loans to SNSC Lo                           -        2.570   50.10       14.3      0930  1320    15.8              -          -        -           -        -          --                   --                   -
Subtotal                   6 00    100, 062  126,862      47 60     3093  131120    1S98          12,930    13,192    12,504    12,224    12,224    12,818      14,255    12,504    12,224    12,224    12;818
Interest Payments L/ - World Bank         1,751      4,930   10,325     15,314   18 675   50,995      6.1       49,750    48,505    47,260    46,015    44,770    43 525    42,280    41,035    39,790    38,545    37,300
- ADB                 283     1,380    2,790       3,360    3,652   11,465     1.4         3,287     2,922     2,556     2,191      1,826     1,461     1,096        730       365       __        __
Loan Commitment Fees  /- World Bank       1,411      1,145      697        282      141    3,676       .4         --        --        _-         --        __         __        __        __         __        __        _
-ADB               31         1         1          27     --        637       .1        -           -        -         -           -        -          -         ----                            -
Subtotal                    3,761     7,8   13,893         1983   22,468   66,3          1        5         51,427    49,816    48,206    46,596    44,986    43,37T    41,765    40,155    38;5ff   37,300
Loan Repayment L/  - World Bnk              --       --        --         -_       --        __       __        13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833
--  --  --  --  --  --       --                                             9     4.565~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9    8,        14.3565     ,39
Subtotal                                                                      __       __ 1-  -5 -    9:    l         18;398    1                                  39 398  ;0 83399 13;08 10,6  4;565  4 :  13,833
Total Cash Outflow         64,466   107,730  140,755    101,441   65,521  479,913    57.8         84,365    83,017    80,718    78,828    77  18    76,202    76,029   72,667    70,777    69,167    63,951
CASH SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                     (25,000)  (29,880) (36,986)    14,130   48,931                         15,223    29,288    23,983    59,316    79,1i8  127,563   134,483  124,378   143,353   141,313   148,617
CUMULATIVE SUBPBUS/(DEFICIT)- Excluding
Company Profit                          (25,000)  (54,880) (91,866)   (77,736) (28,805)  28,805    (3.5)       (13,582)   15,706    39,689    99,005   178,133.  305,696   440,179   564,557   707,910   849,223   997,840
Transfer of Company Profit la/             --        --        --         -_            --      -_   __           __        __         __        -__       14,151  '57,071    60,215    53,443         63,359    63,397    63,691
CUMULATIVE SURPIUS/(DEFICIT)- Including
Company Profits                         (25,000)  (54,880) (91,866)   (77,736) (28,805) (28,805)   (3.5)       (13,582)   15,706    39,689    99,0(5   192,284   376,918   571,616   749,439   956,149 1,160,859 1,373,167
In current prices for Years 1-5; thereafter in Year 5 (1981) constant prices.  Includes expansion to a 90,000 ton factory capacity.
2    The disbursement of Loans frm the Eximbank, the Indian and German Suppliers Credit, the European Investment Bank and the East African Development
Bank has been assumed to be directly to the Company and not through Government.
3/   Excise tax in constant 1976 prices assumed at KShs. 1,OoO/t for Years 1-5, adjusted ti current terms by using a factor of 32.2%
(KShs. 1,322/t) in Year 4, and 41.4% (KSh. 1,414/t) in Year 5.
2/   The excise tax of KShs. 6/t in constant 1976 prices has been adjusted by a factor uf 32.2% (KShs. 8/t) in Year 4, and 41.4%
(KShb. 8.5/t) in Yeas 5 and thereafter.                                                                                                                                                                                ,.
5/  Values in constant 1976 prices adjusted by 41.4% to Year 5 (1981) constant prices.
Includes import duties on materials, machinery, vehicles and equipment; excise taxes on capital and current inputs; and income
taxes on staff salaries.
7]   Based on Table 14.
From Annex 15, Table 20 (Kenya Sugar Authority) and Table 19 (Training-not directly Project-related).
2/   From Pro&ect cost Annex 15, Table 16, excluding Comoany nucleus estate roads.
From Table 14; the on-lending margin to the Company has been assumed to be 1.5%.
/  For terms of loans see Table 19.
I2/ In lieu of Company dividends to the Government, 95% o)f Company net profits after tax, expressed in lear 5 constant prices.
Tanuary 20, 1977



KENYA
SOUTH NYAN=8ThAR PROJECT
FOREIGN EX-CHANGE INFLOWS AMD OUT?LOWS j
(KSha..000)
Total Project
Yea.r     Year 2   Year 'A    Year 4,   Yea, 5                US$       Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year, 11   Year 12   Year 13  Yeer 114  YeaSr 15   Year 16
KiSho. '000 MiLLLons
INFLOWS
Suppliers Credit - e,maeoy               17,200    27,400   11,80oo         -       -       56,400      6.8         -          -         -          -         -          -         -                               --
Suppliers Credit -India                  15,500    24,750   10,748         --50,998                     6.Li-                            -          -         -          -..-                                      --
World Beank                               19,480,   35,280   59,930      55,390   37,420  207,500      23.0         -          -         -          --                              -,                   --
European Invest ..nt Bank                 33,400    53,200   22,960)       --       --    109,560      13.2          -         -         ----                                       --                   --                   -
African Developmnent Ban,k (ADB)           3,540    13,710   17,630       7,1120    3,650   45,650      5.5         -          -         -          -         --                    -.--                            --
East African Development Bank             6,070      9,670    4,18o         -       -       19.920      2.4         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          --                   -
E.mlnbwki                                  7.900    10,380    3.49o                 -       2177         .6         -          -         -          -    ~     .        -           --                             --
Subtotal               103,090   174,390  130,736      62,510   41,070  511798        14          -          -         -          -          -         -          --                              --
Foreign Exchange Val~~of usOg-r
Prod-ction  L/-                                       -       -         26,740  193,401  320,141      38.6     248,501   308,00 "   295,336   410 ,771  1441,434   479,618   491,18    46,           95:,00    491,189   495,000
Expor  oMoass/--                                         -                  4,210    6.42      0639       1.3        8.26     1023        9:815    13,000    13.970    15,178    15,546    14,649        5B.78     15.58     1,1
Total Tr.flno          103,090   174,390  130,738    193,460  240,900  842,578    101.-5       256,762   318,244   305,151   423,771   455,404   494,796   506,735   477,489   510,782   506,735   511,714
OUTFLOWS.
Foreign E-change Component of  1!l5,674    15,096    7,577                 29,429g  20,589   88,365      io.6       30,304    51,132    33,297    49,824    38,643    45,312    59,745    143,169    54,344    41,571    45,522
Ag,iculture
Sugar Factory                            68,832   107,162   93,777       12,811   13,194  255,776      30.8      51,982    14,275    114,275    18,990    17,788    18,312    18,384    18,56o    21,593    19,393    19.325
GOenera  Management and A.cutt,n           2,251      _,8i4    3,634      5,028    5,183   18,910       2.3        5,442     5,311      5,357     5;362      5,183     5,894      5,993      5,981     3,9148     5,183     5,4~42
nBasd                                      3,532    13,676   17,588       7,104    3,634   45,534       5.5        3,612     3,612      3,612     3,612      3,612      3,612     3,612      3,612     3,612      3,612     3,612
HousnuSg and Social Asseniti.o             4,223     4,735   10,499       1,406      --     20,863      2.6         --         --        --         -          -         -          --                              --
Research                                     655     0,470    1,841       1,234    1,376    7,576       0.9        1,622     2,469      1,499     1,376      1,376      1,710     2,596      1,561     1,376      1,356      1,622
Training                                     1.20      294      864         647      648    2,573       0.3          648       648        648       648        648        6148      648        61848    8           6148       6148
Kenym Sugar Authority                        617     1,8125    2.023      1.30.1              ,1          .         ,3        1.84      1,572     1.572      1.575      1.572     1.,572     1,572     1,572      1.572      1,572
Subtotal     05,904   148,972  ~~~~~~97,803  59,394    41'39  447,312      53.9      95,244    79,241    60,260    81,372    68,82         700      9,5         513      8,9         305      7,2
man.i.ment Fee (Varisbuc                              --                   --       1,205    1,205       0.2       2,410      3,240     2,700     5,500      5,974      6,910     6,915      6,0o60    7,040      6,930      6,940
ITnterest Paymnents Y/
Supp liers Credit .   roy-                             -        --       11,226    4,072   15,298        1.8       3,509     2,946      2,387      1,824     1,263        842      --         --         -          --
S1,ppliers credit - India                   --        -         .        10,. 05    3,702   13,907       1.7       3,190     2,678      2,170     1,658      1,148        765      --         --        -           --
Word Bank                                  1,751     4,930   10,31),    15,14 18,675   50,995            6.2      49,750    48,505    47,260    46,015    44,770    43,525    42,280   141,035    39,790    38,545    37,300
Eur opean Inveatment Basi                  2,004     1,196    6,574       6,974    6,574   26,992        3.2      .5,917      5,26o     4,603      3,9146    3,289      2,632     1,975      1,318        661      --         --
Afr Jean Development Bank                   5283     1,380    2,792       3,360    3,652   11,465        1.4       3,287      2,922     2,556     2,191      1,826      1,461     1,096        730        365      ---
East African Development Bano                668     1,732    2,192       2,192    2,192    8,976        1.1       1,879      1,566     1,253        9140      627        314       --             --    --
Exi.ban.k                                    771     1,64      1,760      1,564    1.172    6.1           .           80        388       1          -        --         --         --         -----
Subtotal                 5,477    1,3 2,64             5,35       40039  134,145      16.        8,7312    614,25    60,42      56,574    5293       49,539      531- 4303            4,16     38,545    37,300
corsltn-s  Fee 6-world Penis                 1,41i     1.145       697         82       141    3,676        .4        -           -        -          --        --         --         --        --         -          --
-ADB                        iii       2~13      `91          27     -.        637-       .1         --        --         ----                                --              --         -           --
Ex!Simbank                   69        13      --          -.       --          86      --          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          --                   -
Subtotal.                1,7178    ,375        778        309       1141    4,399       .5        -           -        -           -        -           -         -                     --
Lan Repaym~ent 6
Suppliera Credit - Oec,ma02                  -         -                  7,050    7.050   14,100        1.7       7,050      7,050     7,050      7,050     7,95       7,050       -          --                   --
Suppliers Credit - India                    --        -         -         6,381    6,381   1272          1.5       6,81       6381      6,381      6,381     6,381      6.38i       --        --          --
World Bank                                  --        -         -          --        --       --         -.       13,833    13,833    1.3,833   .13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833    13,833
European Investmnest Bank                                                                                         lo.- -  -. -  -  - 1,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956    10,956  --
African Development Reck                    --        -          -         -          -       -           .        4,565      4,565     4,565      4,565     4,565      4,565      4,565     4,565      14,565    14,565      -
Ea,l African Developes,ot Bank                                                                                     2 -  - --  - -  -~846  2,846  2,846  2,846  2,846    2,846      2,8146      ..        --         --        -
W.ibank                                     -          --      2.177      4,354    4.354   10.885        1.3       4.354      4.3,4     2.7         -          -.        --         --         --
Subtotal       --      2,177      11,7)91   17,7 5   37,747     ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~45  49,925)   49,985    147,80  45,431    45,631    45,581    32,300    29,3514    29,354    2,5e 1,3
Total   12 'V          1t 3,177   164,330  124.399    12,-,92,3  105, 309  625.138    75.3     215.951   196.751   171,193   189.089   173,350   179,090   177.01.6  153,600   1614,303   1147.881    136,993
Net T.fl.. (Outflco)                           (97'  1V,060    6,339       f-i,3   135,591  217,440       26.2      40.81i   121,493   133,958   2314,682   282,054   315,706   329,719   323,869   346,479   358,851   3714,721 -
cumulative Inflow (OutfIco)          ~           k7I    9 ',973   16,312   5, 141  217,440      --         -.      258,251   379,744   513,702   748,384 IP30,438 1,3146,144 1,675,863 1,99,752 0,346,231 2,705,089  3p79,803
~/Expressed in current prl,-.  f r 'narI 1-5; in conctast Year 5 (1981) prices thereafter.
From Tables Qandi1l 
I]/ Based on the foreign exch.i,hc ,-lcese~t 'of the import .substitution price of KIho. 3,897/t iSo constant (Marc;.' i977 pricee,
adijusted for i.flati.s to PEho. 5,152/t in lcear 4, a,d KSh.. 5,510/t Pros Year 5 omnsrdo.
4JBased on molasses. price>.. rhJ. Mmbaoa, of KObs. 4' 3t in Year 4, and KAhn. 495it from Year 5 coro
3/Calculated from Proje-t coat la-len Sn Annex 15; represents a foreign exchange cnn-ent averaging 09% fur 1, urn 1-5,
and varying rates for the ?ollossltpl yeafn.
Pased co Tables 54 -nd 1/.
1en, arv P0. 107'



ANNEX 20
Table 19
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
TERMS OF EXTERNAL PROJECT LOANS
Interest   Commitment   Repayment       Grace
Source                              Rate 1/      Fee 2/     Period 3/   Period 4/
(Percent)   (Percent)    (Years)       (Years)
World Bank                             9.0         0.75         20           4.5 5/
European Investment Bank               6.0          --          15          5   5/
Suppliers Credit - Germany             8.0          --          11          3   6/
Suppliers Credit - India               8.0          --          11          3   6/
East African Development Bank         11.0         1.0          12          5   5/
African Development Bank               8.0         0.75         15          5   5/
Eximbank Consortium                    9.0 7/      0.5           8          3   5/
1/ Payable on disbursed portion of loan.
2/ Payable on the undisbursed portion of loan.
3/ Includes grace period plus period of repayment of principal.
4/ Period with no repayment of principal.
5/ Interest payable during grace period.
6/ Interest payment deferred until the end of grace period.
7/ Average interest rate of: 8.5%, Eximbank; with 50% loan participation
10.0%, P.E.F.C.; with 25% loan participation
9.25%, Equator; with 25% loan participation
January 20, 1977






-  2I,2~  ~ 2T    1222               222A2 22   22--221
~2I.~2 AA2I22I~2+A                                     22222  222122                    222   2222222                    ,2G2,
TITZ22 t--II.I2                                                        1221 LA-I'T                          .            A-2~2A2
% - T,-,    ~      ~            ~          ~ ~ 222A22L'T2.  TT-2~I2T
17 ~ ~        ~          ~         ~         ~ ~               -.A22,221A22222
~~~~~~~L.l  EC ~ ~ ~       ~           ~            ~            ~            ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          '.~2                   T         2 I               Il           T222              2222
IT4., ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        22~
----2'  'DE                                                                                                 El                                                                                    2          2IT            T                                   A2
--                          --                 --                    --                      12        2222           *  -         -A ST'>                    222                                                      222      222'2A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
--                    --                 --                    -                    222.               T       1<           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  >  2,2-                                             2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22222A~~~~~~~'.2222 ~ ~ ~ 1I
A'2A  '~    CI                         2 T             T~           2               G22I                ~                  -                                                    1     12'         -       T            I
2,2         -                                                   T              -                                                                                   .                                  2            -                                                             2I22T                          2 2 -T
IAA2A  At  22  2   2          2<              -(22              22-IT                 *2                   222<2                       122            2>          2112-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
IY -A                                                                    -                                                         -                           2       '          2             1           i          -       
TIT   2 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ 2AA~~~I22T    2-2  
AETA                 22           2                                >           11        22                 T12--                                      A       A      J    -          AT2           2I            L>              -
-A'-  2  2 A T A~~~   -      2,         -22               2T~~~-2                                  I-                    2.2         T      A     L     A      T    2         mALT         TAT'              I~~~~                         12-IT   '2222IT
AL  -Z A'A  A    T,2,T             A     A "                      2               2                                  2                   -           ),2           22           Al   2         1                             2                   AAT.22-2222'2Er2
.2-VA  T      T           -               2                        22              -                                          2.72                              ,T             A            A                           I                                222~  2                   ~2-"<IT
222  T  2A   227-  AT           -              2-                         A   >2             AT  2                 2,                       T    1~~~~~~T            2 2 2 1 2-1 2                        A  L-I
AT  A              2      ,                12          2             2222               2                       -                 '     2 A~ -                  A     A 2                                 TA 1GI
All'>  221<  1;  2                ' 2        2     2                 22-A                 222>                 2122            22            CA          -'S         T     A     T    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--  -,  T,TA  >2  AT             .            AT>               TA                     2,22               212            22A'.                       2-TAT   T                  T                                                       ...T 
--       -                                        -              --                           -1                2                   GEE                     2            -             -                       A               2-2                    A 2 2              2 T221'A12T2
--   -'        2"                2                                                                                                                                                                           IT' SI,    I  I  2TA221222'AL'22'
222'     1          ------                                                                              ------A------ I' '  12        '---------------
--   -21   1      --    ~~~~~~~22I                    .7                  22                                  112         AA12           1  2  1  2  2  1           AT                                '22222~~~~~~---- --- ---






I,ms     1 _q1 _4_   1XI     
048              
01 .  .                                    .7        t    1- 1 _ 1   __4 04_4._r                tN0 1  0107        I           I                -s   I  t  1    I    1     0        - 1___1__4b _O 1_0
011 OL                                                                                                                   1                            111                   /
-   71(             04  -40      01000         471   0.4            0   ocoI n4 .0sr  rZX~NN ?fts       Zo Do   
r    IC   t                         _4              _ _  -.                          _         I I  o I N                         I    H c > D * e c   o X < t   I , - It     114~^^ ~ ~ ~ ~ ^ ^
1~~~~~-    -"  114.                                                    --                                              <
t                                                     o eN                                                               4 4 s   
Pi                                        __ 044  4 11  01741 7744 t07          4                                    40         1.
04  i                             j04o0R>R                                                    IEf-E        w          4tv          )-Nt@                   
P14   i0.0                                                                                      - Hao      '\ ,- 4,    \ 4H=   HHHavc       
4114.10<44c 41.                                                                         v           g    v     ,z                    c      c     S     
vt                                                            1041 u4                                            14 e4              -  s   <    ;CL                                       O
.t  W                                                                                              ,I                              -S= >     
~~~~~-u@n>eu=,=vaaQee>e=  0cue   t=  uou _' ==  f    =c    c
0141~~~ W      f                 MH        vv==v p==Ov = f ===
--  001  -~~~



ANNEX 20
Table 21
Page 2 of 2
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
COSTS ELIGIBLE FOP WOiLD BANK FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT
Vehicles. Office Machines. Furniture and Eguipment
Physical           Price
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5              Subtotal    Contingencies   Contingencies                  Total       S  Disburser-
-~~~~~~~(KShs.'OOO)------------------------                                                 -       -'32'00) ----
Nucleus Estate Development
Management and Adninistration
Motorcycles                             (1)   7   (3)  21   (4)  28 (4)    28                    (12)    84                  8                 16            108        13               9
Coepany Cars                            (1)  45                                                   (I)    45                  5                  2             52         6
Subtotal            52          21          28         28                       129               13                 is            160         19
Cane Transport,,                                                                                      ,
L-i-orr                                                                  (1)   168   (1) 168   (2)   336                    34               105            475         57              35
Tankers                                                                  (2)    54   (2)  54   (4)   108                    10                34             152        18              .:
4-Wheel Drive Tractor                                                    (7)   546                       546                55               170            771         93
Self-Loading Trailer                                                     37    294                (7    294                 29                92            415         50             3X
4-Whlel Drive Tractor                                                    (9) 1,467                9'  1,467                147               457          2,071        250            1-
Hilo Trailer                                                            (18) 1,044               (18) 1044                 104               325          1,473        177
4-Wheel Drive Tractor                                                    (2)   438                (2)   438                 44               136            618         74              .
Flex-Bool    L Tacd r                                                    (4) i.692                 4) 1.692                169               527          2.388        289            190
Sobtotal                                            5,703         222        5,925               592              1,846          8,363     1,008             68,
Outgrouers Developmnot
Management sod Adeisistration
MN -orcy.ins                                        (2)  14   (2)  14 (2)        14   (2)  14       3, 56                    5                 15             76        10
Coopany Cars                            (I)  45                                                   (1)     45                 5                  2            52          6-
CSlbtotal           45          14          14         14          14           101               10                 I             128         16
Lorries                                                                  (1-    168   (1) 168   ,2/   336                   34               105            475         ..
Tankers                                                                  (2)     54   (2)  54   (4)   10                    10                 34            152        :8
4-Wheol Drive Tractor                                                    (9)   702                (9)   702                 70               218             990       IL9              8
Self-Loading Trailer                                                     (9)   378                (9)   378                 38               118            534         64
4-Whoel O-iv- Tractor                                                    11) 1,793                11) 1,793                179               558          2.530        304            204
Hilo Trai-er                                                            (22) 1,276               (22) 1,276                128               397          1,801        217            i4
4-Wheel Drive Tracor                                                     (4)   876                (4)   876                 88               272          1,236        149
Fle-Boom  Loader                                                        (4) 1,692                (4) 1.692                169               526          2.387        289            196
subtotal                                            6.939         222        7,161               716             2,228         10,105      1.21?             32
Factory
4-Wheel Drive Tractor                                                    (1)   374                 1)   374                 37               181             592        71
Molasses Tankers                                                         (3) 1,560      1  520    -  2,080                 208             1,087          3,375        407            27,
Conpasy Cars                             4) 180   (1)  435    4) 180                              '     405                 40                76             521        63              Wi
4-Wheel Drive Vohicle -
Long Base                                                   (1) 100                             ti)   100                10                 31            141         17
L.orry                                                                   )i)    168                      168                17                81            266         32
Furniture                                     70          50         95          20         20           255                26                 66            347        42
Subtotal           250          95        375       2,122         540        3,382               338              1,522          5,242       632             .3"
General Management and Administration
Office Furniture                             200        450         597                                1,247               124               181          1,552        187
Office Eouipmest                              20         30          70                                  120                12                18             150        18              : 
A.cconting Machives                                     250                                              250                25                 27            302       35
Gardening Equip-ent                                                             220                      220                22                 68            *10        3-
Conpa-y Car                             (1)  97                                                           97                10                  3            '10        :3
Other Conpany Car                       (4) 180   (1)  45   (2)  90                                7)   315                 32                 30            377        -6
Ambhulance                                          (I)  91                                        ,l      91                9                 10            110        13
Radio and Co.snications                      264                                                         264                26                  9            299        37'
Subtotal           761         866        757         220                    2,604               260                346          3.210       387             20
Agricultural Resea-ch
Hot Water Treatnent                           83                                                          83                 8                  3             94        11
Microscopo                                     5                                                            5                1               __                6          1
Meteorological Equip-eet                      10           9                                               19                2                  1             22          3
Soil Analysis Equip-ent                       13          15                                              28                 3                  2             33          a              3
Field Experiment Eauipment                     5           5                                              10                 1                  1             12
CFmpiay  C         i p                  (1)  45                                                    (1)    45                 4                  2             51         6               4
Motorcycles                             '3)  21                                                     3)    21                 2                  1             24          3
Subtotal           182          29                                              211               21                 10            242         29             21
Total            2,243       1,271      1,281      15,208       1,028       21,031             2,103             6,132         29,266      3,526          2,398
Note:  Th;- tal1- 4x c,rsirtot' wIth the  sata shou  under Category I 31- i. :,rnnex 2C, Table 20.
February 2l. 1977



ANNEX 21
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Project incremental costs and benefits are summarized in Table 1.
These are expressed in constant value terms (base = 1977 prices) and are
based on the cane production schedule as outlined in Annex 7 and the Project
cost estimates in Annex 15.
2.        In the calculation of economic Project costs and benefits foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1 = KShs. 11 to reflect
the economic cost of foreign exchange to Kenya. Project costs include the
full cost of agricultural development, the sugar factory, housing and social
amenities, and management and administration of the Company; 75% of the
cost of construction and maintenance of roads and tracks in the Project area;
and one-sixth of the cost of the National Sugar Research Institute, the Kenya
Sugar Authority, and staff training not directly related to the Company.
Twenty-five percent of the costs of roads and tracks are excluded because it
is anticipated that there would be offsetting increases in benefits other than
those related to sugarcane which are not measurable. The adjustment in the
cost of roads is to account for benefits other than the production of sugar
resulting from these investments which have not been quantified. The adjust-
ment in the cost of research, training and the Kenya Sugar Authority is in
recognition of the fact that the sugar industry as a whole, i.e. about five-
sixth outside the South Nyanza Sugar Company in terms of future tonnage of
sugar produced, would benefit from these investments and that such benefits
have not been explicitly included. All costs are net of taxes and duties,
which are estimated at KShs. 69.7 million (US$8.4 million) at constant prices.
The cost of land purchases for the nucleus estate also has been excluded.
3.        Tt has been assumed that Kenya would not achieve self-sufficiency
in sugar production on account of the Project, and sugar has been valued on
the basis of import parity. The import parity price, which is consistent
with the World Bank's commodity price forecast, adjusted for ocean freight
and port handling charges, is KShs. 5,113/t (KShs. 3,894/t with foreign
exchange not shadow-priced); details are shown in Annex 4, Table 9.
Molasses has been priced on the basis of export parity (KShs. 300/t) as
sufficient export demand would exist to absorb incremental production
resulting from the Project.
4.        The Project, when expanded to an annual production of 90,000 t
of sugar, would generate salaried employment for appxoimately 4,000 persons.
All salaries and wages have been costed at market wage rates to account for
the fact that, because of previous outmigration, the laborers remaining in
the area might not be sufficient to fully staff Project operations, and some
laborers would have to return from present employment in other parts of
Kenya. While the Company's employment conditions would be attractive enough
to enable it to recruit all staff required, labor in the cane fields is known
to be hard and not readily accepted by certain segments of the population.
For this reason, and because of other imperfections in the national labor
market such as restricted mobility into rural areas (e.g. South Nyanza) on



ANNEX 21
Page 2
tribal grounds, the pricing of labor employed by the Company at less than
market wage rates would not be appropriate even though unemployment would
continue to be a national problem in Kenya. The Project also would involve
about 7,900 outgrower farm families (4,500 without expansion) who would
spend nearly one million mandays per year in the production of sugarcane.
Farm family labor has been shadow-priced at 55% of the market wage rate as
a portion of such labor (i.e. women, adolescents) is presently underemployed
and relatively immobile.
5.        Since the planting of sugarcane would displace some crops pres-
ently grown in the area, the net value of these crops has been included
as an economic cost. Due to the relatively low land utilization in the
Project area, the actual productive area lost due to the Project is also
low; it has been assumed to be about 40% of the Project cane area. The main
crop being displaced would be maize, followed by millets, groundnuts, sugar-
cane for jaggery production, and a variety of subsistence crops of minor
importance. In the outgrowers area, sugarcane would generally occupy farmers'
most productive land and, upon establishment of the cane, farmers would be
expected to reduce the area presently under subsistence crops but to increase
the total area under cultivation on their farms. The net economic value of
production foregone, estimated at KShs. 6.5 million (US$590,000) at full
development, would thus be relatively insignificant.
6.        The data in Table 1 indicate that, over a 25-year period, the
Project would produce an internal economic rate of return of 25%. At the
official exchange rate, the rate of return would be 23%. Sensitivity analysis
was undertaken to examine the effect of changes in the output and cost assump-
tions. This indicated that if output were reduced by 10% and costs increased
by 10% the rate of return would be 20%. If costs remained unchanged but output
were reduced by 20% the rate of return would be 20%. If the factory capacity
were not expanded from 2,000 TCD to 3,000 TCD and annual production of sugar
amounted to 60,000 t at full development, the rate of return would be 23%
(Table 2).
7.        A major risk facing the Project would be the possibility of
greater frequency and severity of droughts in the Project area than has
been allowed for in the estimation of cane yields. Although the likelihood
of this occurring is remote, partial alleviation of the problem could in-
clude to restrict the Project scope to the initial factory capacity of
2,000 TCD to reduce the transport distance of cane and enable the Company
to pay farmers a risk premium for their cane; retain only the best soils
for the growing of sugarcane as such soils afford more drought resistance
and produce higher yields in normal rainfall years which would act as a
cushion against drought losses; and introduce irrigation in selected areas,
conditional upon the technical and economic feasibility of irrigation.
8.        There is also a risk associated with the Company's proposed
partial reliance on outgrowers' cane supply. This risk, which is a major
source of the problems experienced in the Sugar Belt, would be minimized
under the Project by the proposed organization of the South Nyanza Sugar
Company which would establish a strong linkage between the Company and



ANNEX 21
Page 3
outgrowers. This organization is designed to avoid pitfalls encountered
in the Sugar Belt and to incorporate favorable experience gained at Mumias
(Annex 18). In addition to the organizational measures, the development
of a nucleus estate also would represent an effort to counteract the out-
growers' risk. A further factor in alleviating potential problems with
outgrowers would be the real incentives farmers would be given under the
proposed price structure for the sugar industry; a major source of farmers'
discontent in the Sugar Belt is traceable to insufficient incomes generated
by the sugarcane enterprise.
9.        Another risk would be a possible oversupply in the World market and
a consequent long-term drop in the international price of sugar, coupled with
the ambitious expansion program of the Kenya sugar industry and, hence,
resulting surpluses facing uncertain export prospects. While it is unlikely
that the import parity price would fall below the domestic cost of production
for any significant length of time and the Project would remain economically
sound on import substitution grounds, there is only a very narrow margin
within which sugar produced in South Nyanza would be competitive for export
without subsidies; the comparative advantage of sugar produced at Ramisi,
Mumias or in the Sugar Belt also is not clearly established, although some of
these companies have a locational advantage and, it appears, lower production
costs than South Nyanza. However, Kenya's competiveness in the World market
is adversely affected by the country's overvalued currency. To make exports
profitable for the Company, Kenya would thus have to devalue its currency or
subsidize exports. Insofar as Government has a monopoly in the wholesale
distribution of sugar, operates a national sugar equalization fund, and
determines domestic sugar prices and currency exchange rates, Government would
have the means to alleviate the marketing risk associated with a potential
domestic oversupply. Consequently, this risk is basically financial rather
than economic in nature and affects primarily the sugar companies rather than
the economy as a whole, as its relative impact would depend on Government's
ability to appropriately apply the policy means at its disposal. The appro-
priate operation of the national sugar equalization fund would cushion the
impact on individual companies of exports priced below local levels by spread-
ing the financial burden over the whole industry and, if Government chose to
do so, the consuming public. Through consultation in pricing matters, the
Bank would be able to advise Government on, inter alia, appropriate pricing
policies and the operation of the equalization fund (Annex 4). In the very
unlikely event that the entire output of the Project would have to be exported,
the Project's economic rate of return would still be 19% (16% without expansion
to 90,000 t annual capacity).
January 20, 1977






KEhNYA
0UT0li NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANZALYSIS
S'MARY OF PPlO.ECT COSTS AND BRNEFITS WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 90,000 TONS  /
(KShs. Million)
Incremental
Years                                                                 incremental Costs                                                                    Benefits
Management                 Holusing,     Research,                     Farm                                    7/
and                      Social        Training                   Family   Production
Agriculture      Factory       Administration  Roads 2/    Amenities 3/  and KSA |   Subtotal          Labor 5/  Foregone  /    Total
1              18             91               5             5             14             1          134           --           __           134           __
2              30            144               7            16             13             2          212           1            1            214
3              16             67               9            18             28             3          141           3            2            146           --
4              49             20              11             7              4             3           94           3            2             99           127
5              35             20              12             4             --             1           72           4            3             79           183
6              48             59              14             2             --             3          126           4            5            135           235
7              73             23              15             4             __             1          116           6            5            127           290
8              52             25              l4             2             __             2           95           6            5            106           278
9              73             30              16             4             __             3          126           6            5            137           385
10              59             31              16             2             __             2          110           7            7            124           415
11              69             30              17             4             __             2          122           7            7            136           450
12              86             31              17             2             __             2          138           7            7            152           463
13              66             42              17             4             __             2          131           7            7            i45            436
14              79             46              17             2             __             1          145           7            7            159            465
15              63             43              16             4             --             3          129           7            7            143           463
16              69             43              17             2              4             2          137           7            7            151            467
17              85             43              16             4              4             1          153           7            7            167            463
18              66             43              17             2              5             3          136           7            7            150            436
19              79             47              17             4             --             1          i48           7            7            162            465
20              63             44              i6             2             --             3          128           7            7            142            463
21              70             46              17             4             __             2          139           7            7             153           467
22              86             44              17             2             __             1          150           7            7             164           463
23              65             43              17             4             --             3          132           7            7             146           436
24              79             47              17             2             --             3          148           7            7             162           465
25              63             44              16             4             __             2          129           7            7             143           463
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-pricing of Foreign Exchange /
Basic (Import Substitution)                 25.4%
Benefits Minus 10%                          22.6%
Benefits Minus 20%                          19.6%
Cost Plus 10%                               22.9%
Cost Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%           20.1%
Export                                      19.0%
Without Shadow-pricing of Foreign Exchange
Import Substitution                         23.3%
Export                                      16.1%
P/ Pased on cost data presented in Annex 15.
Jr  Tncludes 75% of the adjusted costs for construiction and maintenance of Project roads and tracks.
T/ Tncludes the costs of construction and furnishings only; maintenance costs are included under
Management and Administration.                                                                                                                               ro
/  Includes 17% of estimated Project costs of research, training and the Kenya Sugar Authority.                                                                   H
2/ Priced at 55% of market wage rates.
6/ Based on a net valuie of prodiuction foregDne of KShs. 880/ha, and an assumed loss in area planted
to other crops equivalent to 4ol% of the cane area.
7/  Based on import parity price of' KShs. 9,113/t for sugar (Annex 4, Table 9) and export parity pri,e of
KShs. 300/t for molasses.
P The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate iR KShs. 11.00 = 11$ 1.00.
ul eyr r   ,  1 -7(



KENYA
SOUTh NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS WITH A FACTORY CAPACITY OF 60,000 TONS J
)kSns. million)
Years                                                                                                                                                     Incremental
Incremental Costs                                                                      Benefits
Management                  Housing,      Research,                     Farm                                    7
and                       Social        Training                   Family   Production
Agriculture      Factory       Administration  Roads  /    Amenities  /  and KSA J   Subtotal           Labor J/  Foregone 6        Total
1             18             91               5             5              14             1          134           --           --           134             --
2             30            144               6            16              14             2          212           1            1            214             -
3             17             67               9            18             27              3          141           2            1            144             __
4             49             20              11             7               4             3           94           3            2              99            128
5             35             20              12              4             -_             1           72           3            3              78            184
6             48             21              14             2              --             3           88           4             3             95            236
7             72             23              15             4              __             1          115           5            3             123            291
8             51             22              14             2              __             2           91           5            3              99            279
9             60             27              16             4              --             3          110           5            3             118            327
10             49             27              16             2              __             2           96           6            4             106            319
11             58             25              17             4              __             2          106           6            4             116            336
12             72             27              17              2             __             2          120           6            4             130            319
13             55             37              17             4              --             2          115           6            4             125            29
14             67             41              17              2             __             1          128           6            4             138            326
15             53             39              16              4             --             3          115           6            4             125            319
16             58             38              17             2               4             2          121           6            4             131            336
17             71             38              16              4              4             1          134           6            4             144            319
18             54             37              16             2               5             3          117           6            4             127            293
19             67             40              17              4             __             1          129           6            4             139            326
20             52             37              16              2             --             3          110           6             4            120            319
21             59             39              17              4             __             2          121           6             4            131            336
22             72             37              17              2             __             1          129           6             4            139            319
23             53             36               17             4             --             3          113           6             4            123            293
24             67             40              17              2             --             3          129           6             4            139             326
25             52             37              16              4             --             2          il            6             4            121            319
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-pricing of Foreign Exchange         2
Basic (Import Substitution)                  22.9%
Benefits Minus 10%                           19.9%
Benefits Minus 20%                           16.6%
Cost Plus 10%                                20.2%
Cost Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%            17.2%
Export                                       15.9%
Without Shadow-pricing of Foreign Exchange
Import Substitution                          20.3%
Export                                       12.3%
3   Based on cost data presented in Annex 15.
E   Includes 75% of the adjusted costs for construction and maintenance of Project roads and tracks.
/  Includes the costs of construction and furnishings only; maintenance costs are included under
Management and Administration.
T Includes 17% of estimated Project costs of research, training and the Kenya Sugar Authority.
/  Priced at 55% of market wage rates.
/  Based on a net value of production foregone of KShs. 880/ha, and an assimed loss in area planted
to other crops equivalent to 40%- of the cane area
Z/ Based on import parity price of KShs. 5,113/t for sugar (Annex 4, Table 9) and export parity price of
EShs. 300/t for molasses.
/  The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 = us$ 1.00
December 30, 1976



66191  ar   o
9L61 OE )aq..jd.s
-sUO,jOOOj VsO  JO 6a0I-8
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ldfO p_ _                                                              saioojo Jeon Jo*uJOJfOOJ
_  _  _  _  _            _                  =              _    _                     .            =    .  - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - --- - --Jlel----s a------ --------------  ldw 
fvS)o AiiuoHinV HVDnSVAN3N)
_ _  _  _  _ _  _  _      _        _         _        _        _        _        _         _     _                         .         ,                             5dr45/elo4oS seasjaao~~~~~~~~~~--------- dlq jpqS  ~,-
_  _  _  _ _  _          _        _         _        _        _                 _        _        _          .-fululoll 01001)0
_                                                     _    I  ..  ..  .   .    .... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - -   A-- - - - - -   - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -- -
.   I                                                                                      1                                         .             .    .....        .  . aJnllns 6V - Bulule/l dl458D1lUG/ddV~f------  ....
_ _ _   _      T                                                                                                   D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NINIVU1 3dVlS
----- ----------   --- -j,b3 pue .1,q-A^ I-  --l-'edi
-  -------              oqi---  ---- s --- e0- 3 JO . U01d103
H_UV3S38 1v0nlh1fnD1i V
l  l                                                                   _                                                                               -a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-JoS IOOq0S 'qnlD Ane5uOdslf
(NOiiD1o18SNOD) S311IN3WV IVIaOS (INV oNISnOH
=         =                =        =      =r         =      _  _                   _                                     ....O.-         -UO-JA
-             t  [  1   1  - 1     _   .J-uoud nbq ,3 p-sOIOaA JO lU---lOCid
_   _  _               __                                        _        _        _        _                .   -   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~sJuOuOO)OV JuOw6uOJOOO  JO ssauaA JOOJJ3
NOllV8ISINIWOV ONV IN3WJ3DVNVW IVH3N3S
-O!O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jp,IpOS 5.,I-)do
-J_ _ lua- -              nb-   pue I   0alLo0A JO -lO--Od
I                                                                                              l I  I   | ......................................................................... . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L. I . I . I   - - - - - - - - - | - - - - - - | - - - - - - - - 1   I - , - . - - - - - -   6 u l - . , 1d
l  l   {  i  t  = =  ==  4  ea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',s 1-5   6u'H
I   I    I    I                                    =                                       __   =                     t    J                                                         Ad~~-J0JSPOIOlDVd 8D
t   t  L|    L   ) ;    L          X                1  L     E                                                               :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ::m 6urlH Dn
-------1------4- __ ____1_- -----  ------- - - --'  -- ----- -- ------ '------ -----  ------ ---.,   -----------  --P3   ---ueS  pU   POI5H J-
I  _  _ -----I-------J--------1-------1----------             --- ----  -   - ---- --- ---- - -- ---- ---    --- ---- --- ---- -- - ---- - -- ---- ---  ---   --- ---- ---  --- ---- ---    --- ---   --- ---   6., , - "
I   1  j  I  l  l  I  w _  -----  -------4--------S-------1-------- ---------.-----------. . iim              m         ---- ----                   - -----  -          -------- ----------
I   7   9  I   7                    +           I    I    ]  +                       i    E    |  E-                              |    I  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11%,  -- -: ::::-:--- --:::    lpuP 4----------- -InN
I I I _ | _ J _ L . |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ---!--- ---------  ----1",,, aeD  /E5el S dPI-58j
-I1I_dnba P- s OA Uo    IJOPo    d
|  t   ]  |  [                  -X                                                            - _                 |        |                                                           |  a rPas3 snalsnN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------  ------    ------    -------  III
I I. ------T------T- e6/oJeSJ 0II-
-I I    UI    I I    -        O P Mn3 p-   ,dIWA 1 ,-', 'n'3d
l   l   l  l  |   i                                                                                       I        i        ;                                         1lo slola sa''s' S silbV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  .........  ~I; .  .,-
-  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~-h- ~                                                                                   -----------0" ~1
-  -   - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------                                                                                             _
{                                                                                                       T  l   l  l   l l   l  l  l [ I _ I W _ J asl;;O s /a6PuPW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . - - - - - - - -   - - - -  ( , . - J   ,, S
L L    ,,,  |   ,,   |      |  Al  |  111  t   1   P   I   |  Al  |   11  |   11   |   I   |    l  \  11-   |   11  _OJOJO  1101 L|5oo11iI DVA3)
---- ---- ---- ---- --- P---   saoqe   O   -lO . 1f0 d
alnpa4oSJJ~J Jo0 POOHld
-00OJh0-8d H t   VZNVAN               I            0]
------I                               C, -,          b0
inp 4:)S Uo!j-ejS O0JO)OOJddwJO
103Coud Hvg-sJONV)0N Hl)o
VAN3)i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Od013p.O,O3pJ  tOOJdI






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
EXISTING SUGAR INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION
MI'ITYOF C.     MINISTRYOFMIY OF                                O                              INISTRY OF      MINISTRY OFOFIEF
OPERTVSAND           LANDS AND                                                                    FINACE.AD.COMERC.AN
SOCIAL SERVICES                                            AGRICULTURE  E------.--                ECONOMIC                               THEMPRSIDEN
LANNING          INDUSTRY                     I
| RNATIONAL       COOPERATIVE |                                     CROPS AND           KENYA             DIRECTOR OF                             TRADE AND           NTANT INATI-
BOARD  BANK                              EXTENSION           SUGAR             ~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH                    SUPPLIES        - ONAL SUGAR
OARD  m        | EANK             *'SERVICE                                             AUTHORITY                                                                     ACCOUNT)
AREA            PROVINCIALKIO
CONTR OLLER      DIRECTORS                                 RESEARCHR
X            S        3              <         .~~~~~~~~~O AGRICULTURE   STATION                                                          UTION)|
I ........,,,  .  ....................... .                        ,J. _.______.___
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ....   ---;........>   .   ............   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ... . . . . . .   ;
MIWANI                    MUHORONI                     C E                            '            MUMIASRAMISI
FACTORY                    FACTORY                     FACTORY      --                             FACTORY                               FACTORY 
COMMERCIAL          IRRIGATION            NUCLEUS                    NUCLEUS                      NUCLEUS                                    NUCLEUS                              NUCLEUS
IRRIHGATION            TRIALS                ESTATE                     ESTATE                       ESTATE                                     ESTATE                                ESTATE
SCHEMES
|UTOROERS                  OTGROWRS           I ..OU....ER                                          OUTGROWERS                .   ---.-   OUTO.ROWERS
TRANSPORT                | TRANSPORT                    TRANSPORT                                                                        TRANSPORT
| CONTRACTORS [          l CONTRACTORS                  CONTRACTORSS
World Bank-16460






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
AUTHORITY MEMBERS
EXECUTIVE
[--H    COMMITTEE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
SECRTAR                                ADMINISTRATIVEI
[  SECRETARY  ]ISTAFF
PLANNING         [                                                                                  ARETING*
FINANCE/ECONO-       SUGARCANE                              FCTORY          FMANPOWER              AN
EVALUA MICS Ii   PRODUCTION  I                            EHNOLOGY  I IDEVELOPMENT              PROUAND   N
g~g                    LX ---   L                                                    A- --- ---    --
,______r_____n___________n___I                                 I                   I    _______
MIWANI            MUHORONI            CHEMELIL            MUMIAS              RAMISI        (   NEW               SUGAR RESEA I
FUTURE ORGANIZATION                                                                                                World Bank-16461






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUGAR RESEARCH INSTITUTE
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR OF
RESEARCH
PRODUCTION
ECONOMIST
HOLOGY  ENTOMOLOGY          AGRONO   ~~~IAGRICULTURAL                                               CHESOILS
PATHOLOGY             ENTOMOLOGY                AGRONOMY             ENGINEERING                S CE 
LABRATRYEXPERIMENTAL                       LIRRADMINISTRATIVE
I  LABORATORY       [__FIELDS                   LIBRARY              OFFICE
World Bank-16463






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I
GENERAL MA
PERSONNEL AND
AGRICULTURAL               FACTORY                   FINANCE AND                 INDUSTRIAL
DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT                ADMINISTRATION        ~AQI
DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
NUCLEUS ESTATE                                     BUDGETS                       PERSONNEL
OUTGROWERS                ENGINEERING              GENERAL ACCOUNTING           INDUSTRIAL
AGRICULTURAL              PROCESSING               COST CONTROL                   RELATIONS
SERVICES                 QUALITY CONTROL          ADMINISTRATION                TRAINING
RESEARCH
World Bank-16462






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
MANAGER 
RESEARCHSRIE
STAFF UNIT
STAFF
NUCLEUS ESTATES                OUTGROWER                                                               AGRVICULTRA
DIVISION                       DIVISION                                                                SERVICSIO
DIVISION ~ ~ ~ ~ DIISO
ISTAFF
SECTIO1N       1                                                                                                                  OFFICE
CONSTRUCTION                  HARVESTING                    TRANSPORT                     WORKSHOP
_  SECTION                       SECTION           | _         SECTION                       SECTION
-|_SECTION 3                  SE N 3                                    SECTION                                                                  S
SURVEY UNIT                                     CANE TRANSPORT
_  SURVEY UNIT                                      t    UNIT
j  SECTION 4    X   _   LAND PREPARATION                                             MOTOR POOL
UNIT                                                         MOTOR POWL
|ROAD CONSTRUCTION|
AND MAINTENANCEl
|UNITl
World Bank 16464






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
FACTORY DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
MANAGER
FACTOR                                      ERTR
OFF ICEFY
LENGINEERING                                                                                       PROCESSING                                                       CONTROL
DL VSIN                                                                                   I    DIVIS ON                                                         DIVISION
I  MILLING  I I   ELECTRICAL           MECHANICAL           CCLARIFICATION AND    CRYSTALLISATION                       CURING AND               BAGGING          ATER SUPPLY              LABORATORY
MILL~~~NG   I   I ~~ENG INEERING                  ENIERING                                                                             STATIONAiO      ADEFLEN 
SECTION           ENGINEERING                                                 EVAPORATION          SAION                 CENTRFUOANONAADAEFLUEN
SECTION            SSECTION              SECTIO            STATION                                    STATION                                 TREATMENT STATION         ANALYSIS
CANE                                                  CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                    WATER
YARD             ELECTRICIANS         WORKSHOP            CREW                                                                                                                            ANALYSIS
REPAIR &                                                                                                                                          CN
MILLING    I          OKR             lMAINTENANCE |4CN
[WORERSMEASUREMENT
BOILER      I    IINSTRUMENT  TILEEE                                                                                                                                                       MIE IUC
1 STATION            MECHANICSO KM                                                                                                                                                           MEASUREMENT|
F  HOUSE -                                                                                                                                                                                   BAGGING STATION
EGUSPMENT                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTROL
World B.nk-16465






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
I   CONTROLLERt
|ASSISTANT CONTROLLERS                                     SEL_..CRETARY
[AND BUDGET OFFICE                                            CE_
AUDITING
I ADMINISTRATION/                                         GENERALWOrl  ACCOU
FINANCE                                                   ACCOUNTING                DIIIN
D  IINDIVISION_                                                        DIVISION_
|  FINANCE  l  l  MATERIALS      l      l      ~~~SERVICES                    ENTRIES                    ANALYSIS
| ACCOUNTS                rLABOR
C A S HIE R                   P U R C A SI N             T E L E P H O NE              E N T R IE SR                  l lJ 1 0
ACCOUNTS                 |    GENERAL    1                 ESNES l1                    CONTROL                   DIS MTERIBUTIO
PAYABLE                      STORES                     JANITORS 
ACCOUNTING                 PAYROLL
, MACHINE                * INPUTS
SUGAREOS        |               DRVS                       OPERATORS                  CALCULATION
MOLASSES                |     TYPISTS
SHIPPING                _      POOL        |
I                           ~~~~~~~~~~World Basnk-16466






KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY
PERSONNEL AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
MANAGER
PERSONNEL                           INDUSTRIAL                          TRAINING
ADMINISTRATION                       RELATIONS                          OFFICE
OFFICE                      _        OFFICE
SALARIES                             MEDICAL
ADMINISTRATION                       CARE
SECURITY
RECRUITMENT                        AND
SAFETY
SOCIAL
WELFARE
World Bank-16467






IBRS 12374
FURKANA               St                                                                                                              SJ 
F   T   
71199-A LAA       IL    L    E 
A-                                                        ASIOLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                         ASDR
I'   N         A  S. T  ER~~~~~~~~~~~~ AE     
NA                     L     E    Y                                  <9
5-969~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~R
/    EST  9-119-CT                                     -.       -                       <'N       OV>T H~~-F 1
SAMBSSLI                             999A%ISS
BANS   CIA             '1B69~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kiu                                   TNARIE
(9- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    -
- - 944 SAS'   I  ~          MAHAKOS-
LAKE?.                      -9    '159' ~~~~~~~~~~~K JI   D                                                              CA0 A    I LSA ML
2                                                                                                              /V,?/,4 N   0,-FA N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAA  99S
KIL
-,W-F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~A
10~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
CO             ST L






IBRD 12375
SEPTEMBER 1976
z    I5                                                  E L GE YG
I                   I           2K E                                             T. L.od..I
NZOIA         MARAKWEr2
[ $                                      w                                    X               B A R N n1~~~~T2A 
I~~~~~~~ZI
'/                                                                      f 2 < i                                              \k4
<~~~~~~~~ 2>                                    t        (2  >\   MKs
;0 -  tr-;   -    5      U     ,     _4                                                                 8ARING
K.Igo,~ ~ ~ LASI                                                 ,k
~~~~~*N. ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       N
' o b AY \ e se,KEH N                                  A AK      U  R 
! 0 NY~~~~A   NZA  - FBtg     \v/M4<SOA1<6
06   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6T-    .
*   6(666v           sfM      S   MESS           osK r               Xgw        
0~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~    ~    ~~~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 IC    20            40lr   50  a / 
I U~~~ 
-r           661664 66L  6rL ARIST
1 -4 A, E  j                                             AVGA~CAN   G OOIN-    AE4
r    Al    * iEW                      + A 
.=W;i,6erX~~~~ WW$e~ AN \(AZ
$ S                  *,      *       g   .i   ;    jt \t!;= =-  R PRO I  C  H10  20 .
S                         :        :i-=i           0 U  T I"     24  =K                             Gm}l
Y A N                                           /''".''' ''AL






IBRD 12344
-     ETHIOPIA
1>         -o                                                      5~~~~~~~e  ~  ~ ~       "~~"4e* ~~~KENYA
K  *                              ...                                            -                                                                                 0*Hrsr4o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIROBI
*                        .     /                                                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4'~~~~~~J,  . . .   d   . . R0,' . d
-  *                     L~~~~~.l         -   .&r.G -   S.d,
~~~~~~~~~~~N-Y ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      C1Ic,.R.c~t                .        y.I
~~~~~  /   0~ ~ ~~~~B-,StPl,
~~~~~~~~~r*                   K                                                                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.,A,,   .&  .O                                y.1
'ANN.  -~~~~~~~~~~B.-S-d,
*         0                                                                                                                                                                                                        E -  ,,   R..dN-  roiNt   rt Rounoary f.
N                   N~~~N
s-  -~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                      *                     Nnsurveyed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6k   R ood.,
I  I ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ R,
N                                                              -\          -~~~~~~  *                   NEW  ROADS~~~~~D.
*  'F  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     ,                        I                                Access~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W    Road
*  -i~~~~~~  .                            -~~~~~~   I                                                  N,                                     '                               Feeder~~~~~0Kd -,0    Roads 
,,.,.~k.c'I>                                                                                                 EXISTING UPGRADED CLAROJECEDRROAD






South Nyanza Sugar Project
MAJOR SOIL CHARACTERISTIC,
't -ZV-                                                                               44444 444
i~~~~~iI   ~~~~~~~~T~~~~b                                 4~~~~-1444  1- 1 
A.4t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p 424
AX- ~ ~  ~        ,                      4   4                          ~~44                                               '  44444
9fy4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        44    ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/44
N0~~~~r
k~~~~  ~~~~,                               'Co                                                                            44~~~~~~~~~~A
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I   E4



