Document of              lrl
FILE  COpy             ~~~~The World Bank                                     r 1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2015-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SUGAR PROJECT
March 16, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh     =     US$0.12
US$1.00      =     KSh8.30
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to
the SDR, the U. S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 to KSh8.30 which is close to
the short-term average exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
Government - Government of Kenya
KSA        - Kenya Sugar Authority
SNSC       - South Nyanza Sugar Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SUGAR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to
help finance the South Nyanza Sugar Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace at an annual interest rate of 8.5
percent. About US$15.9 million of the proceeds of the loan would be re-
lent to the South Nyanza Sugar Company for 20 years including a grace period
of 4-1/2 years with interest at 10.5 percent per annum and another $5 million
would be passed on as equity. The remaining $4.1 million of the proceeds
of the loan would be used by the Government to finance project components.
In addition, the Government and the South Nyanza Sugar Company have obtained
other external financing from suppliers totalling $13.0 million, and loans
from the East African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the
African Development Bank and the US Exim Bank totalling $23.7 million which
would be applied towards the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects"
(Report No. 1284a-KE, dated October 15, 1976) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors in October 1976.
3.        With an average per capita income of $220 in 1975, Kenya still
belongs among the poorest countries in the world, despite an excellent rate
of growth of 6.6% per year from Independence until 1973. The country faces
two basic challenges in its development strategy: how to resume rapid growth
and secondly, how to ensure at the same time that the lowest income earners share
in economic and social progress. After the initial period of rapid economic growth,
the past three years have been difficult for Kenya. Growth slowed down in 1974 and
was brought to a near standstill in 1975, as accelerating world inflation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
(including rising oil prices) coupled with persistent drought reduced Kenya's
import capacity and economic activity. Weather conditions improved in 1976
and unusually high coffee prices as well as depressed import growth helped to
reduce the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments, thus
providing some temporary relief. However, this does not eliminate the under-
lying problem of import capacity. Economic growth will have to follow a
different path in the future, in order to achieve high rates under this more
severe balance of payments constraint. The Government is now restructuring
its development strategy accordingly, and has implemented some measures while
others remain to be initiated.
4.        Promotion of rapid growth was the major instrument through which
the Government sought to achieve economic as well as social objectives. More
investment was to create more employment opportunities and higher production
was to widen the tax basis thus allowing more public outlays for educational
and health facilities. However, Kenya's Third Development Plan FY74-78 already
recognized that although past economic performance had brought significant
benefits to the lower-income groups, the poor had not yet benefitted as much
as desired. And with the slowdown in economic growth in 1974-76 the Government
had to devise policies of sharing losses in real income instead of distributing
progress equitably. The difficult question is now whether Kenya's development
strategy should continue to rely mainly on high growth rates to bring about
improved employment and income-earning opportunities to lower-income groups
or whether a more direct attack on poverty is required. The Bank intends to
undertake a study of this question in the next twelve months, which would in-
clude ongoing programs directed to the poorer segments of the population such
as rural access roads, rural water supply and integrated agricultural develop-
ment.
5.        The restructuring of the development process will have to be brought
about first and foremost in agriculture, the largest sector in Kenya's economy.
In the past, agriculture contributed in significant ways to rapid growth,
increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution of develop-
ment benefits; not only did the sector grow at an average annual rate of 4.7%
in total and 6% in monetary agriculture, the Government also brought several
hundred thousand small farmers into the market economy through special programs
in coffee, tea and dairy production. Nevertheless, this still left the majority
of the rural population (representing 90% of total population) in poverty. To
effectively assist these people in raising farm productivity and incomes is
already an awesome task in view of the number of families involved (probably
close to 500,000).      Moreover, agricultural support services have to be
progressively extended fromi high and medium to low and marginal potential
agriculture, which is often subject to high risk of periodic droughts.



-3-
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and 1975
6.        In 1974, Kenya experienced with many other countries   a serious set-
back to its development efforts when soaring world inflation, increasing oil
prices and stagnating export demand coupled with adverse weather resulted in
a large balance of payments deficit and growth slowed down to around 4%. The
terms of trade dropped sharply, the widening trade gap led to an overall deficit
and Kenya had to use part of its foreign exchange reserves, notwithstanding IMF
assistance. At the same time, domestic inflation rose to an unprecedented 15%.
In 1975, GDP hardly grew at all (0.7%) due mainly to disappointing performance
in the agricultural sector where the incentives of higher producer-prices were
frustrated by adverse weather for all crops except maize. Employment in the
modern sector declined while inflation continued at a high level of 19%. The
terms of trade deteriorated further but due to low levels of economic activity,
imports declined and the current account deficit as well as the overall deficit
were considerably smaller than in 1974.
7.        The Government has managed to maintain Kenya's relatively high
investments and savings levels in real terms, by reducing in particular private
consumption in the difficult years between 1973 and 1975. Public consumption
has, however, increased in real terms as government tasks are expanding steadily.
Kenya's budget policy has traditionally been conservative. Until the early
1970's, Kenya managed to boost revenue and public savings, thus allowing public
investments to increase with a relatively small supplement from foreign financing.
The high inflation of the recent years, however, led to a departure from this
favorable situation: the overall budget deficit increased from $86 million
in FY74 to $240 million in FY76 and it became necessary to use substantial
domestic credit to cover this deficit in FY76, notwithstanding Government attempts
to contain expenditure.
Restructuring Program
8.        The economic crisis underscored the need to carry out fundamental
changes in Kenya's development strategy. Bank staff maintain a continuous
dialogue with the Government about the policies needed to bring about this
restructuring. This economic dialogue is reflected in the Restructuring
Program which the Government adopted in February 1975, outlined in Sessional
Paper No. 4 of 1975 on Economic Prospects and Policies. This Paper includes
a revised three-year forward budget for FY76-78. It supplemented earlier
action to minimize the loss of reserves and to control domestic demand through
sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to
users and a freeze in government recruitment. The Program includes global
monetary and credit policies to restrain consumption, to lessen the high



-4-
import-dependence and to make the economy more export-oriented; it sets some-
what lower targets for growth of public expenditure in real terms than
those in the Development Plan FY74-78, without affecting the momentum of essen-
tial Government activities. The Program also contains, however, policies to
reallocate public investment, away from infrastructure and towards
more directly productive sectors (agriculture, industry and tourism), accompanied
by improved sector planning, project preparation and implementation in agricul-
ture, increased incentives to production by higher farmgate prices and a more
systematic review of agricultural input costs and prices. A re-orientation
of industrial growth towards greater use of domestic resources and expansion
of exports of manufactured products, including agro-processed goods, is also
included.
9.        Even though this sometimes requires politically hard decisions,
the Government has begun to implement the Restructuring Program. In
the budget area, procedures to ensure proper control have been strengthened.
Within the development budget a pronounced shift in emphasis has been brought
about: the share of the directly-productive sectors increased from 29% in
FY74 to 45% in FY76. Simultaneously, infrastructure projects with a more
labor-intensive character have been started. Major increases in farmgate
prices were introduced in 1975 and 1976 which have brought Kenyan producer
prices closer to import or export parities at the official exchange rate. A
continuing and systematic review of these prices is now being mounted. These
higher prices benefitting the farmers are in most cases passed on to the
domestic consumers. This has helped to correct the adverse rural-urban terms
of trade and avoid subsidies to be carried by the Treasury. The Government
has also introduced duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and
capital goods to encourage a more rational protective system; it has increased
the sales tax on luxury goods and is paying an export subsidy of 10% to
stimulate manufactured exports. Last but not least, the Government -- in
conjunction with Tanzania and Uganda -- devalued the Kenya shilling by 14%
in October 1975.
10.       Despite these efforts more vigorous Government action remains to be
taken in other areas. Future industrial growth will depend on the promotion
of efficient industries, some of which may produce import-substitutes but
most of which will be required to compete in export markets outside the East
African Community. At the present time, the manufacturing sector is almost
completely dependent on imported capital equipment and spare parts, and
heavily dependent on imported raw materials and intermediate products. The
linkages between manufacturing and agriculture have not yet been fully
exploited. There is also a need to change trade policies and incentives
which presently favor the import-substitution industries at the expense of
others. The Government is starting to encourage small and medium-scale
industries which are more likely to utilize domestic resources and are less



-5-
dependent on imported capital equipment than large-scale enterprises; the
International Finance Corporation has signed an agreement with a commercial
bank to promote medium-scale enterprises and a Bank project to finance
small-scale enterprises is presently under preparation. The Government is
preparing a comprehensive industrial program and intends to undertake in-
depth studies of special industrial issues such as promotion of appropriate
technology and resource-based industries.
11.       The Government continues to make efforts to mobilize additional
resources for the public sector but in view of the already high tax effort
it may prove difficult to keep up with rapidly rising demand for both Govern-
ment services and investments. Special pressures on the budget at this time
derive from the Government's intentions to bring more services to the rural
areas as well as cost escalation on many development projects. The Govern-
ment will, therefore, require more external assistance. Moreover, after having
contained wages and salaries to the public sector for several years, the
Government is likely to experience increasing difficulties in devising wage
and income policies which effectively hold domestic inflation below world
inflation.
External Debt
12.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 6 percent (includ-
ing a notional 50 percent share of the debt of the East African Community
Corporations) is expected to rise to about 10% by 1985. Including a notional
share of EAC debt, the IBRD is presently holding 31 percent of Kenya's out-
standing external debt and IDA 14 percent; the IBRD share is expected to rise
to 38 percent and the IDA share to 15 percent. Debt service payments to the
Bank are about 30 percent of total debt service payments; IDA's share is less
than 1 percent. These two figures are projected to increase to 39 and 1 per-
cent, respectively, by 1985. These reflect the gradual switch by other donors
from loans to straight grants or to loans on very concessional terms in recent
years as well as the Government's very conservative commercial borrowing policy.
Despite the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it must finance
from external sources a substantial part of the costs of the development pro-
gram, including local costs.
East African Community
13.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for far-
reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions, policies, and
procedures for operating the common market and the large infrastructure services,
and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been followed, however, by a period
of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the distribution of net benefits derived
from the Community. The infrastructure services were hampered by restrictive
tariff policies, services declined, and Partner States subventions were required
tor the Railways from time to time to keep the services running. The poor



-6-
performance of the common services in transport and communications also im-
paired trade and general movement of goods within the countries, affecting
the general economic development program. These difficulties were aggravated
by the severe budgetary and balance of payments constraints faced by all
three Partner States in the past few years. As a consequence, there has been
a continuous diminution in the authority of the Community institutions and
in the effectiveness of accountability procedures. Failure to agree on arrange-
ments for transfer of funds between the Regional Offices and the service
Headquarters have often paralyzed the operation of the Headquarters, affected
their morale and on a number of occasions led to delays in meeting their
external obligations.
15.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental poli-
tical and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community
that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed
for this purpose in November 1975 but adjourned sine die in November 1976
without being able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future struct-
ure of the EAC. Meanwhile, although no de jure action has been taken, further
deterioration in Community relationships has led to a further dismantling of
the Corporations. The Railway Headquarters has in effect been disbanded and
the nationals working in the Headquarters have joined their respective Regional
Offices. Recently, the East African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in
part due to the lack of effective mechanism for interstate transfer of funds.
The Headquarters of the East African Harbours Corporation has existed in name
only for at least a year with the ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam
functioning autonomously. The East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation has so far functioned with a semblance of Headquarters responsi-
bilities but is now fast delegating its headquarters functions to the regional
offices. The respective regional branches provide the services and domestic
development programs in this sector are not likely to be impaired. Despite
these difficulties the proceeds of the various current Bank loans are being
effectively used for approved and priority purposes.
16.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for about a month. Except
for a second line of credit to the EADB in March 1976, the other corporations
have received no new loans from the Bank since 1973. The Bank has continued
to disburse on its 5 ongoing loans to the Corporations and as of February 28, 1977,
$40.8 million remain to be disbursed. In addition, the Bank has provided assist-
ance in the preparation of Railways, Harbours and Telecommunications development
projects. However, in the light of the decentralization of the service corpor-
ations, the Bank is reviewing its ability to assist with urgently needed future
investments. Bank staff have over the past year or so been providing whatever
assistance has been requested by the Partner States and by the Review Commission.
The Bank has also made it known to the Partner States that further assistance
for moving in an orderly manner to new institutional arrangements would be made
available should this be requested.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP'S OPERATIONS IN KENYA
16.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 22 Bank loans and 20 IDA credits amounting
to $363.9 million and $159.7 million, respectively, supporting 37 operations.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million which have been extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry), operated regionally for
the three Partner States of the East African Community. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and East African Corpor-
ations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
17.       The Bank has been engaged in a comprehensive policy dialogue designed to
encourage and assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy
initiated some two years ago. In connection with loan and credit negotiations,
the Government has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program,
including reallocation of resources to directly-productive sectors, institut-
ing proper price incentives in the agricultural sector, and implementing economic
efficiency pricing policies in the public utilities sector. On the institutional
side, the planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture
has been strengthened, the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land Use Com-
mittee has been set up and the National Committee on Educational Objectives
and Priorities, established in connection with the Third Education Project,
has now completed its work. However, progress in shifting the focus of the
Government's industrial policies from import-substitution to domestic resource-
based production capable of competing in export markets is a slow process and
the Bank will continue the policy dialogue in this area.
18.       Significant progress has also been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly-productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
The approval in July 1976 of the first Integrated Agricultural Development Pro-
ject (IADP), which is aimed directly at small and subsistence farmers, opened a
new phase in the Bank's strategy. As an integral part of Kenyan agricultural
strategy, an Irrigation Project will be ready for Board presentation this
year. The Rural Access Road Project, approved at the same time as the IADP,
is financing labor-intensive infrastructural developments. During this fiscal
year the Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya for the first time --
an effort which is intended to help Kenya further exploit its considerable
foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending program is now



-8-
also progressing well. A small-scale industry project, prepared with
substantial Bank staff assistance, has been appraised and identification of
a large-scale industrial project is now under way. Assistance is also being
given in the preparation of high priority infrastructural projects, among
which are the Nairobi Water Supply Extension and the Rural Water Supply
Project and for additional housing in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu through
the upgrading and sites and services approach.
19.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.
One major exception is the Second Livestock Project which is suffering from
inadequate producer prices as well as some organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Nairobi Airport
Project has experienced major cost overruns which were largely beyond the
control of the Government.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
20.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya), Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd. A credit
line for medium and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of February 28, 1977, IFC held for its own account $25.9
million comprising $18.4 million of loans and $7.5 million of equity.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
21.       Agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy.
It provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (over 90% of the total
population), generates over 60% of foreign exchange earnings and comprises
over 30% of GDP. The average annual per capita income of those living in
rural areas is estimated at far below the countrywide average ($220 in 1975),
probably around $70.
22.       At the time of independence, agricultural production in Kenya was
dominated by large-scale holdings operated mainly by Europeans. Government
emphasis was on the development of large-scale farmers. Since then, a two-
pronged approach has been adopted which placed greater concentration on small-
scale farmers to maintain production especially for exports. Accordingly most
of the large farmholdings were transferred to Africans either intact or sub-
divided. Today there are some 1.2 million farmholdings with an area of
20 hectares or less; 50% of these holdings are less than 2 hectares each. The
majority of the holdings are farmed by their owners, many of whom are women.
About 20% of these small holdings are in the transitional stage from subsistence
to commercial farming and the remaining 60% are subsistence farms.



-9-.
23.      Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Maize is the major subsistence
crop although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. Other subsistence
crops include millet, cassava, potatoes, plantains and bananas. Commercial
production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, cotton and
wattle. However, cashew nuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool
are becoming increasingly important. Wheat, rice and sugarcane are produced
largely as cash crops, but are almost totally consumed within the country.
While meat and dairy products continue to be significant in subsistence
agriculture, a growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed
domestically or exported.
24.      Agricultural development is controlled by an elaborate network
of government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of
Agriculture is primarily concerned with setting overall policy including
pricing policy, and providing general support services (such as research,
extension and training). It also exercises control over a wide range of
specialized production and marketing boards and agencies. Other ministries,
including Lands and Settlement, Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism
and Wildlife, Natural Resources, and Works, are responsible for other
services in the agricultural sector.
Agricultural Development Strategy
25.      Impressive progress has been made over the past decade especially in
the introduction of cash crops into the smallholder sector. About 500,000
of the 1.2 million smallholders can now be characterized as relatively progress-
ive farmers. However, while growing at 4.3% a year in real terms, agriculture
is falling behind other sectors. Agricultural development needs to be accele-
rated to help alleviate three particularly sensitive and critical problems:
poverty, unemployment and a deteriorating balance of payments. The average rural
income has been estimated as being about $70 per head and, even within the rural
sector, wide variances exist. Despite the progress in the past few years the
majority of rural dwellers live at subsistence levels, and have limited access
to health care and education. Rapid population growth exacerbates the problem.
The labor force is increasing beyond Kenya's ability to absorb it; migration
to Nairobi and other large towns is accelerating and the cost of providing
basic social services is growing at alarming rates. Finally, recent adverse
trends in world markets, coupled with the increased cost of oil and fertilizers,
have raised the cost of imported farm inputs and reduced profitability. In light
of this situation, the development of the small farm sector would contribute towards
increasing agricultural production and employment opportunities.
26.      The Government has adopted a three-pronged approach to improve small-
holder production. First, it is establishing adequate production incentives
through higher produce prices. Second, it is attempting to strengthen the support
institutions such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Cooperative
Development and several marketing boards which are weak. Finally, it is improv-
ing basic infrastructure in rural areas such as water supplies, rural roads and
health facilities to eventually reduce the gap in services between rural and urban
areas.



-10-
The Sugar Sub-Sector
27.       Commercial sugar production in Kenya began in the 1920s with the
establishment of two privately owned factories at Ramisi near the coast and
Miwami in the Nyanza Sugar Belt near Lake Victoria. There was no further
development until three factories were established in Muhoroni and Chemelil
in the Nyanza Sugar Belt and Mumias in the Western Province between 1966
and 1973. The total output of these five factories is about 160,000 tons
per annum.    Sugarcane for sugar production is presently grown on about
50,400 ha with a large proportion being supplied by small and some few large
farmers. All the factories derive cane from nucleus estates which account
for 20-23% of the factories' cane supply; only the Ramisi factory obtains up
to 75% of its cane supply from the nucleus estate. Sugarcane is also
produced and processed in small local factories into jaggery (dark brown
sugar in solid form) which is frequently used for the production of "waragi,"
an illicit alcoholic drink. There were some 83 local factories producing
an estimated 12,500 tons of jaggery in the informal sector in 1965; current
production is believed to be higher.
28.        Over the past several decades, Kenya has been a net importer of
sugar. The cost of sugar imports and hence the burden on the country's
balance of payments has continued to increase year by year. Import for the
1968-75 period averaged 55,000 tons/year or 30% of domestic consumption.
However, because of rather high world market prices in the 1975-1975
period, the domestic prices were raised and the import requirement for 1975 was
reduced to 33,000 tons. The country's consumption of sugar which had been
increasing over the years fell from a peak of 225,000 tons in 1974 to 194,000
tons in 1975. On a per capita basis, consumption decreased from a record
high of 17.6 kg per year in 1974 to 14.6 kg per year in 1975. Preliminary
indications are that the 1976 per capita consumption was below 13.0 kg
compared with the world average of 19.2 kg in 1972/73. If consumption were
allowed to grow at an annual rate of 3.5 - 4.5% per capita, which would be
reasonable, total sugar consumption would reach 327,000 - 355,000 tons,
respectively, by 1985. By this time domestic sugar production from established
areas would be about 190,000 tons per year, creating a demand deficit of about
140,000 - 165,000 tons.
Organization
29.       The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for sugar
industry development in Kenya and formulates national policies and programs
jointly with other government bodies. The Ministry is represented, together with
other Ministries, on the Boards of the three government sugar companies and
in this way exercises management control over a major part of the industry.
The Ministry's major instrument to carry out its responsibility in the sugar
industry is the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) which was created under the
Ministry in 1972 to promote the development of the industry. But while the
basic objectives of KSA are generally sound and its legal basis fairly broad,
KSA has not been able to assume its intended role due to lack of staff and to
the Government's reluctance to relinquish some of its responsibilities. Under
the proposed project, the KSA would be reorganized and strengthened so that it can
inter alia, assist the Government in planning and formulating sugar development



-11-
plans, evaluate and monitor progress of projects undertaken by the Government,
advise on pricing policies and formulate training programs for the sugar
industry. It would be a condition of effectiveness that Government had taken
all actions necessary to expand the membership of KSA and authorize it to
carry out its new functions (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
strengthening of KSA would also be an important prerequisite for the proposed
Sugar Rehabilitation Project.
3U.       The cooperative movement has played a prominent role in Kenya's
sugar industry through the Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU) and its 35
member societies which are engaged in production and marketing of sugarcane
and purchasing of supplies for outgrower farmers for three of the five exist-
ing sugar companies. It provides financing, agricultural and transport
services and offers extension advice to farmers. Services to smallholders
are also provided by the Sugar Settlement Organization, some of the sugar
companies and private contractors.
Distribution, Marketing and Pricing Policy
31.        Sugar distribution is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, which buys all sugar produced in Kenya, determines import require-
ments of sugar for household consumption, makes purchases abroad, allocates
all sugar locally and participates in the formulation of price policy.
32.        The Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) which is under the Ministry
of Commerce is the sole distributor of sugar to regional depots. KNTC dispatches
sugar from factory warehouses to its warehouses scattered across the country
from where marketing is done through the private trade. In general, this
system has performed satisfactorily though some improvements are needed,
particularly in the sugar allocation system and transportation and marketing
research. The Government has agreed to prepare a plan for improving the dis-
tribution and marketing system and submitting it to the Bank by December 31, 1978
(Section 3.12(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
33.        All prices and margins for sugar and sugarcane are fixed by the
Government upon recommendation by KSA. The price of sugarcane delivered to
the factory has increased rapidly over the past few years and in 1976 stood
at KShlO5 per ton. However, because of deductions for transport and other
charges, the net price to farmers was much lower and cane prices need to be
increased in order to encourage farmers to use modern production inputs and
to adopt better husbandry practices. The Government increased the price
to KShl35 per ton in March 1977 and has agreed to fullv adiust this price for
inflation in 1978 and 1979 and add an additional incentive margin of at least
6% in each of those years. It will continue to review its price structure
and set prices at levels which will give adequate incentives to farmers and
which will enable the factories to meet their financial obligations (Section
3.12(c), draft Loan Agreement).



-12-
Sugar Development Strategy
34.       The performance of the existing sugar industry is relatively poor.
Because of the involvement of a number of diverse organizations, coordination
of services is lacking, the farmers are not receiving proper advice as to
planting, weeding and harvesting, and cane supply to the factories is uneven.
This has led to underutilization of factories and some of the private factories
have shied away from long-term reinvestment in plant and equipment. Overall,
Kenya's sugar industry, in recent years, performed at about 40% below capa-
city at a time when the country was faced with mounting requirements of
expensive sugar imports. The preparation of a rehabilitation project which will
deal with the existing plants and outgrower areas is receiving high priority
and the Government has requested the Bank's assistance for this project.
'5.       In an effort to save foreign exchange by utilizing domestic resources
and to provide employment opportunities in rural areas, the Government has also
given high priority to the development of the country's potential for sugar
production. In line with this, the Government commissioned a survey, financed
by UNDP with the Bank as executing agent, to formulate an investment program.
In addition to the rehabilitation project, the survey report recommended
implementation of three high-priority sugar projects: the expansion of the
Mumias plant to about double its present capacity; the establishment of a new
factory at Nzoia in the Western Province, and the proposed South Nyanza Project.
36.       Depending upon the schedule of implementation of these projects,
the degree of success in their operation, and the pricing policies adopted,
there may be a surplus production for a few years which would be marketed in
deficit countries in Eastern Africa. The Government has agreed to continuously
assess the projected consumption and production of sugar in Kenya and inform
the Bank of the results and also of any plans to invest in any substantial
additional sugar milling facilities (Section 3.12(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared for the Government by the Mehta
Group International, Ltd., which prepared a feasibility study in 1974. In
1976, the Government requested Bank assistance, and an appraisal mission
visited the area in May/June 1976. An appraisal report entitled "South



-13-
Nyanza Sugar Project," No. 1418-KE, dated March 4, 1977, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.   A Loan and Project summary is provided
as Annex III to this report. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held
in Washington in mid-February. The Kenyan Delegation was headed by Mr. Simon
Gathiuni, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Representatives
of the European Investment Bank attended as observers.
38.       The proposed project would, over five years, establish a sugarcane
production and a sugar processing complex and strengthen the Kenya Sugar Author-
ity and the country's sugar research capability. Specifically it comprises:
(a) development of a 3,410 hectare nucleus estate and 9,000
hectares of land for farming by outgrowers;
(b) a sugar factory, capable of producing about 60,000 tons of
sugar a year initially, expandable to 90,000 tons;
(c) general management and administration for South Nyanza Sugar
Company and provision of project staff, vehicles and equip-
ment;
(d) construction of staff houses and ancillary facilities and
provision of social amenities;
(e) construction and maintenance of roads and tracks in the
nucleus estate and outgrowers' areas;
(f) provision for agricultural research in the project area and
strengthening of the National Sugar Research Station;
(g) training for agricultural, factory and administrative
personnel, and overseas training to meet current and future
industry manpower needs; and
(h) strengthening of the Kenya Sugar Authority through technical
assistance, and special sugar industry studies.
Project Area
39.       The project would be located in South Nyanza District in the western
part of the country, a relatively underdeveloped district contrasted to many
areas in the central part of the country. The South Nyanza district borders
Tanzania in the south and Lake Victoria in the west. The only major town in
the area is Awendo which is 35 km from Homa Bay, the district capital. The
total population in the project area is approximately 95,000. The average
family size in the project area is seven persons and the average farm size is
about six hectares, which is relatively large, but often less than half of



-14-
the farm is cultivated. Most crops grown are for subsistence and include maize,
millet, cassava, sweet potatoes, beans and groundnuts. Sugarcane is the main
cash crop and is grown for processing in local jaggeries.
40.       A nucleus estate of about 3,410 ha with a net cane area of 2,650 ha
would be established around the town of Awendo. A drainage system would be
installed in the entire estate area. The estate would displace some 500 to
600 families. Apart from receiving cash compensation for their land, crops
and houses, the displaced farmers and their families would be given priority
in recruitment by the Company during the construction phase or as agricultural
or factory workers. The Government, through the District Commissioner, would
assist displaced persons in settling in the outgrower areas, monitor the
Company's performance in hiring displaced persons and assist those not settled
in the area in finding suitable houses and work elsewhere (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Under the project, 9,000 hectares of outgrower land would be
developed for sugarcane production over a period of six years and would
involve some 4,500 smallholders. Seed cane would be produced in nurseries
to be established in both the nucleus estate and outgrower areas in order to
reduce transport cost,and transport services would be provided to outgrowers
by the Company on a cost basis.
Sugar Factory
42.       A new sugar factory capable of producing 60,000 tons of mill-white
sugar a year would be constructed near Awendo. It would be expandable to an
annual capacity of 90,000 tons of sugar. The factory would have cane hand-
ling facilities; a milling plant, juice clarification, evaporation, boiling,
cooling, curing, sugar drying and bagging facilities; a steam and power
generating plant; factory and agricultural workshops; a laboratory; auxillary
equipment and spare parts for the factory equipment.
South Nyanza Sugar Company (Company)
43.       The South Nyanza Sugar Company, Ltd. (Company) would manage the
project. The Company, which was incorporated under the Companies Act of
Kenya in July 1976, will be owned 95% by the Government and 5% by a private
consortium headed by the Mehta Group International, Ltd., Bermuda. A share
subscription agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, will be concluded as a
condition of effectiveness.    Mehta  Group will provide management
services to the Company for 10 years for a fee which would be financed under
the proposed loan for the first five years. The management arrangements,
which are satisfactory to the Bank, were discussed at negotiations and it
was agreed that in the event the existing agreement is terminated, the terms



-15-
and conditions of a new agreement would have to be acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
44.        The chief executive officer of the Company would be the General
Manager who would be provided by the Mehta Group under the management agree-
ment. He would be assisted by department managers of the Company's four main
functional departments, namely, the Agricultural, Factory, Finance and
Administration, and Personnel and Industrial Relations Departments. The
appointment of the General Manager, the Controller and the Agricultural
Department Manager would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(e)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Infrastructure
45-       To facilitate easy access to fields from the factory, approximately
735 km of roads and tracks would be built or improved. About 190 km of these
would be in the nucleus estate and about 545 km would be in the outgrowers
area. Most of the roads to be built (650 km) would be at relatively low
but adequate standards. The cost of maintaining these roads over the project
implementation period has been included in the project. The Government has
agreed to continue to provide adequate road maintenance funds (Section 3.13
of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The project would provide about 830 housing units for the Company's
permanent factory and agricultural workers, ranging from the general manager
to unskilled workers. To provide accommodation needed by some estate laborers,
rondavels (traditional style housing) would be built at several locations
within or adjacent to the sugar estate. Amenities to be provided in the hous-
ing complex include a guest house, a dispensary, mother-and-child center, and
Company store as well as social and recreational facilities. The proposed
standards are acceptable to the Bank.
Research
47.       Under the research component, a research unit would be established
within the Company and to improve the effectiveness of the national research
effort the National Sugar Research Station would be strengthened through the
provision of 22 additional staff, vehicles and equipment. The additional
staff to be provided would include a production economist, an agronomist/
engineer and an irrigation/drainage specialist. The Government would, by
July 1, 1978, submit a comprehensive research program for the National Sugar
Research Station to the Bank (Section 3.12(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Training
48.       A training program would be instituted for agricultural, factory
and administrative staff to facilitate a smooth start-up of the Company,
prepare for future staff replacements, and make a contribution to industry-wide



-16-
manpower development. The local program would include apprenticeships in
existing sugar companies, training at industrial training centers, and on-
the-job training supplemented by work-time classes within the Company.
In addition, to meet industry-wide needs, overseas training in business
administration and sugar technology would be provided under KSA's manpower
development program. KSA would assess the sugar industry's present and future
manpower needs and availability and prepare an industry-wide training program
which would be submitted to the Bank before December 31, 1978.
Kenya Sugar Authority
49.       The project would strengthen the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
through the provision of 7 additional professional staff, vehicles and
office space and equipment and assist its reorganization to enable it to
play a wider and more effective role in the development of the sugar industry
and to make it the Government's principal instrument for overseeing the in-
dustry (para 29 ).
Project Implementation
50.       The overall responsibility for implementing the agricultural com-
ponent of the project would rest with the Company. The nucleus estate component
of the project would be executed by the Company's agricultural department
through its Nucleus Estate Division. The Division would establish nurseries
under the supervision of the Company's research unit, and would be responsible
for all aspects of the estate's sugarcane growing activities including harvest-
ing and transporting of cane to the factory. The Company would also be respon-
sible for the construction of staff houses, access roads and tracks, while the
Ministry of Works would be responsible for the construction of major roads. The
research and training program to suit the Company's needs would be executed by the
Company's own staff. The national research effort, however, would be the respon-
sibility of the National Sugar Research Station of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The project's training components not directly related to the Company would be
implemented through the Kenya Sugar Authority.
51.       Agricultural management of the outgrower areas would be the responsi-
bility of the Company's Outgrower Division. Services to farmers would be
provided by the Outgrower Division under "contract growing" arrangements to
be agreed on between the Company and individual farmers. For efficient and
economic land preparation, farmers would be required to form blocks of cane
land of sufficient size for efficient production (at least 10 ha). While
farmers would be required as far as possible to clear their own land as an
indication of their interest and intent to participate in the project, the
Outgrower Division would arrange for subsequent land preparation and provide
seed cane and other inputs as well as implements on credit at 11% interest
per annum. In addition, the Outgrower Division would furnish full extension
advice. The Division would also be responsible for arranging harvesting,



-17-
transport and replanting of cane. Farmers would be responsible for cane husbandry
between land preparation and harvesting, including planting, replanting, weeding
and fertilizer application. The farmers' family members would also be able to
participate in harvesting cane as day workers employed by the Company. The full
cost of all services rendered by the Company would be deducted from the farmers'
proceeds from the sale of sugarcane to the factory, based on a predetermined cost
recovery schedule adjusted annually on basis of actual cost. An Outgrowers Commit-
tee, composed of representatives of the Government, the Company and outgrowers will
be established for the purpose of promoting harmonious relations among the three
parties and deal with any complaints or problems that may arise (Section 8 of the
Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
52.       The factory would be supplied as a turnkey package by four companies:
Buckau R. Wolf of Germany, Buckau Wolf New India Engineering Works, Ltd., Agrima
Project Engineering Consultancy Services, Ltd., and the Mehta Group International,
Ltd. A supply contract between the four parties and the Company has been signed.
The management services would be provided by the Mehta Group, one of the four
suppliers. It is not unusual in the sugar industry to have the supplier manage
the Company. During the negotiations, however, the matter of potential conflict
of interest was discussed and it was agreed that a consultant or firm of consult-
ants satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed to monitor performance under
the factory turnkey contract. The consultant would have full access to records,
accounts and the staff of the Company and report directly to the Chairman of the
Board of the Company. The consultant would be retained until the acceptance test
for the factory has been successfully completed (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$78.5 million, excluding
$10.0 million of duties and taxes; the foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$53.9 million, or 68% of the total. Interest during construction of $16.8 million
brings the projectts total foreign exchange requirements to $70.7 million. Physical
contingencies of 10% and price contingencies totalling US$11.5 million have been
included. Details of project costs are given in Annex III.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million to the Government would finance
32% of project cost net of taxes and duties plus interest during construction on
the Bank loan. The Bank loan and other external loans, together totalling $60.7
million, would cover 86% of the project's foreign exchange costs including interest
during construction. Of the Bank's contribution, US$15.9 million would be passed
on to the Company as a loan at 10.5% interest over 20 years with 4.5 years grace
and $5 million equity to complement the Government's own equity contribution; the
remaining US$4.1 million would be retained by the Government for project components
under its responsibility. The execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement satis-
factory to the Bank covering the financing terms from the Government to the Company
would be a condition of effectiveness. An additional US$36.7 million external financ-
ing has been arranged of which the European Investment Bank is providing $13.2 million,
African Development Bank $5.5 million,East African Development Bank $2.4 million,US
Exim Bank $2.6 million and suppliers credit $13.0 million. The balance of US$33.6 mil-
lion or 35% of total costs would be provided by the Government ($23.7 million),



-18-
Bank $2.6 million and suppliers credit $13.0 million. The balance of US$33.6 mil-
lion would be provided by the Government ($23.7 million), self-generated funds
by the Company ($8.7 million) and a private consortium headed by the Mehta Group
($1.2 million) (see Annex III, p. 2). It would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Bank loan for this project that financing satisfactory to the Bank covering
the investments from the European Investment Bank and the African Development
Bank have been arranged (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
suppliers credits have already become effective.
Procurement
55.       For the Bank financed portion, procurement for vehicles, equipment,
office machines and furniture would be bulked as far as practicable and orders
of US$100,000 or more would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Orders for less than US$100,000 and
fertilizer, fuels and lubricants would be procured in accordance with existing
Government procedures which are satisfactory. Civil works (other than for con-
struction of access roads and tracks) costing not less than US$200,000 would be done
by contractors selected following international competitive bidding, in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. In the evaluation of bids for civil works, prequalified
local contractors would have a 7-1/2% preference margin. Civil works contracts
costing less than US$200,000 would be carried out by contractors selected in accord-
ance with Government procedures which are acceptable. The construction of access
roads and tracks would be undertaken by the Company's Road Construction and Mainten-
ance Unit or to the extent the Unit's capacity is exceeded, by local contractors to
be selected.  Draft tender documents for all contracts estimated to cost in excess
of $300,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval. The factory turn-key con-
tract to be financed by suppliers credits, the European Development Fund and the
East African Development Bank has been awarded on basis of competitive biddine
in member countries of the European Economic Community.
nisbursement and Accounts
56.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against the expenditures
for the Company's agricultural development, research activities, management,
and administrative overhead; the Government's road construction program and
additional support for the National Sugar Research Station; the strengthen-
ing of the Kenya Sugar Authority; and the Authority's overseas training
program and special studies. Disbursement categories and percentages are
listed in Annex III. Disbursements would be fully documented with the
exception that expenditures for fertilizers, fuels and lubricants, salaries
and KSA training activities and special studies would be reimbursed against
statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be submitted
to the Bank but retained by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions.
Expenditures under these categories are likely to amount to US$12.2 million
equivalent, of which US$9.8 million equivalent would be eligible for reimburse-
ment. For the period between July 1976 and the date of signing of the Loan



-19-
Agreement, reimbursement of up to $500,000 expenditures for start-up activi-
ties of the agricultural development program is recommended to be financed
retroactively out of the proceeds of the proposed loan.
57.       Separate accounts would be kept by all project entities.    The
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The accounts' and auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months from the close of the fiscal year, except that the Company's
accounts would be submitted within four months.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The rate of return of the project is estimated at 25%.    The project
would increase sugar production in Kenya by about 60,000 tons per year by 1985
and, if expanded from 2,000 to 3,000 tons of cane per day capacity, by 90,000
tons a year by 1988. By substituting for sugar imports, the project would
produce an average annual foreign exchange savings for the decade starting
in year 6 of about US$30 million (in constant 1981 prices). Annual Government
net revenues from the project would be about US$26 million (in 1981 prices)
by year 16. The project would provide salaried employment for about 4,000
Kenyans and increase the incomes of about 4,500 smallholders (7,900 small-
holders with factory expansion). It is estimated that the average per capita
income on project farms, (all farm and subsistence incomes but excluding
non-farm incomes) now at about US$29 per year would increase to about
US$82 (compared to the national average per capita income now at US$220).
59.       The proposed location of the factory takes into account the prevail-
ing wind direction to minimize any annoyance of the nearby community through
factory odor and smoke. Fly-ash arresting equipment would be installed to
keep ash dust precipitation to an acceptable minimum. The proposed factory
process would require relatively few and harmless chemicals; the industrial
lime to be used would be disposed with the filter mud as a soil conditioner
in the cane field. The major factor in polluting the effluents would be
leaks of sugar solution into factory drains. Equipment and facilities to
be provided for controlling effluents from the factory would include a treat-
ment plant with mixing chambers and a series of evaporation ponds. The
Company has agreed to implement the factory with due regard to environmental
factors (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
60.        The project faces a number of risks.   These include uncertainties
surrounding the availability of sugar cane for the factory if there are more
frequent and severe droughts than have been assumed in the yield projections.
The drought risk which would become apparent before the planned expansion in
year 6 - 8 could be dealt with by cancelling the expansion of the factory
and producing sugar only within a shorter distance from the factory and on
the best soils to cushion the drought impact on farmers' incomes through
high yields and savings in transport costs. Furthermore, the Company could



-20-
investigate the possibility of providing supplementary irrigation in selected
areas. To avoid or minimize outgrowers' problems, a suitable price policy
providing adequate incentives to farmers would be established designed to en-
sure a harmonious company-outgrowers relationship. Moreover, the Kenya Sugar
Authority will study the possibility of introducing incentive-oriented payment
systems for sugarcane including, for example, a bonus system, quality premiums
for cane, profit sharing arrangements with the Company, etc.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the South Nyanza Sugar Company,
the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. Special conditions of loan effectiveness include the execution of the
Project Agreement, the execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the
Government and the Company; satisfactory evidence of the availability of loans
from the European Investment Bank and African Development Bank; the reorganization
and expansion of the responsibilities of the Kenya Sugar Authority; execution
of a Share Subscription Agreement between the Company and the Mehta Group Inter-
national, Ltd.; and the appointment of the General Manager, Chief Financial
Officer and the Agricultural Manager of the Company.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 16, 1977



ANN= I
TABLE 3A                                    Pag- I of 4 Pages
KENYA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU XN2 -------------------------------------------
KENYA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOrAL      582.6                                     MOST RECENT
AGLC.         ..                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE          TANZANI A     xOsn, REP. OF  MAURIT1US 
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                     80.0      1N0.0       220.0             120.0      27O.0       350.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (N10-YR. MILLION)            8.3        11.2      -13.3              12.91/      31.4        0.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE Km.                       14.0       19.0        23.0              14.0       19.0      408.0
PER SQUARE KM. AOlIC. LAND          1i8.o .0                                  23.0      1320.0      729.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        48.5        bs.o       48.7              50.5        35.0       35.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         19.8       17.0       16.0              23.0        11.4        a.9
INFANT MORtALITY RATE (/THOU)                   55.04        .-              160.0b        ..        58.5
LIFE EXPECtANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)       42.5        17.5       50.0              b1.8        57.7       63.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.4         3.4               1.2         2.6        2.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                 3.0        1.1         3.5               3.0 /a      2.3        2.4
URBAN                                 5.8        6.5         6.1               5.6         6.4        4.9
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)            7.3        9.9       11.3               6.0        L1.2       4A.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
9 TO 14 YEARS                       46.0 Li b  48.4         ..               44.        42.1        41.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                       49.2 4.    48.C         ..               53.0       14.6        54.5
65 YEARS 6140 OVER                    4.8 3a 1.6              *-               2.61        3.3        3.6
AGE DEPENOENCT RATTO                    1.0         1.1         ..0.9                        0.8        0.8 
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1-3         1.11 l1 .21.tb                           1.4        1.5 1
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..        66.1      246.6
USERS (I Of MARRIED WOMEN)             .4 ..                 ..                 ..        h2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3300.0     5100.0/c    5400.0/a          5600.0 LO4CC.0          250.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (K)           ..         0.o70     86.0 Ea           91.0 1a     50.5 a     30.0
UNEMPLOYED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)            ..          ..         ..                ..         5.O7      17.0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
Z OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
mOIBSi' 5% OF TUSEHOMS            *       -      2Z0.2           .- 33.5                  17.1
HuIMET 20% OF HDPMBos*                           52.6 *d                      6 63.3      b4.5
IWET 20S OF HOUSOLD                              19                           2.3         7 1
LST     409; OF H CBUS                 *.        11.7L        ..               1.8        17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS             ..          ..         ..                ..        28.0
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 1OZ OWNERS           ..         ..          ..                ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            IIOOO.a10     830.0/6   5800.0 ,j        z1570.0 1    2210.0     4090.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1610.0@. 1d470.0       1300.0 g          4890.0   a 17(0.0       a 800.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           810.0      810.c       760.0 /b          100.0 1    1920.0      250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRENENTS)        103.0      101.C       102.0              13.0       103.0      104.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              75.0       71.0        67.08 14          41.0        65.0       5K.0
-0F WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         32.0       Z9.0         ..               23.0        19.0       19.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..          ..
EOUCATION
ADJUsTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       -7.0 /      64. 0/     74.o/e             36.0/f    104.0        79.0 c
SECONOARY SCHOOL                      2.0        9.o        i ' .t1 0          s.0o       41.0       35..  f
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0        13.0              13.0        12.0       14.0
AOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(Z OF SECONDARY)                     12.014      2.0 a       2.0 If            10.0 ,d    16.0        1   4oA
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                  ..        30.0       40.o                ..        87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              2.5 La       *-         *.                           2.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATEl (1)                        ..         ..          ..              30.0 4.c.   80.0 1d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..          ..                ..        10.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECIRICITY (l)                     ..         ..          ..                ..        30.0
CONSUNPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          9.0        48.0       40.0               11.0      126.0      102.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           8.0         9.0        9.0                3.0        2.0       15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           50.0        68.0       86.0               31.0 Li   307.0      271.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.4         0.5        0.6                0.1        3.4         0.r
-----------------_--                                                    ------------     ---- I---------------
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANlNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pag.o
NOYrES
Umlam: Oth msi.. noted, date for 1960 refer to any year bets,ee   1959 and 1961, for 1970 betsa- 1968 aod 1970. and for Moot R.-et Eatimats between
1973 ad19;75.
-Maurition has bee. selected as an sneopl. of a predmoimatly ogricultora1 econoy, ,hi.h Lo followi.g eon        aolieht-od politi.o d..igood to div--ify
prodoctin and premote accelerated industriali-atimo.
KENA                 1960    Ia1962;     lb  Ba..ed on -nplate .nonratiom   of mon-Afri... populatia onad of urban Afri... population, aod O5      10 percent
_____       ____     __  sam~.ple of rural African population aed 0-14, 15-59, and 60 yacra and ooer, reep.ctively;     Ic  Ratio of ppolattio   umder
IS and 60 and Over to total labor force;     Id  Registered, mout all practicing in the coutry; morn ig Pernonnel inciuden
miwvsadascamid           id,vo      Ia51       ern of age;    If  Total cecondary imolodec teachebr training at the third
1970    /aRgiotered only;       /b  Ratio of popolIation under 15 and 65 and ovr to labor forte agc 15-59 year;       I   Labor force
ae15-59 yearn;   7d   urban ;  /5  Regiotered, mot all practicing in the coutry;      If  5-11 year- of age;    /j Total
aecon-dary imclud.s teacher traiming at the third leve.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;     /a  1971:   tb   1972;   /c  Registered,..mt all practicing io the .-otry;      /d  1969-71 wavrage;    /0  5-11
years of age;    If Total a..condary includes teac.her training at the third level.
TANZANIA             1970    Ia Mainland Tansania;     /b  1967;   Ic  Households,    /d  1965;   I   Urhen only;    If  7-13 and 14-19ryears of age renpectively.
KOREA, RP.P OF       1970    Ia  An percentage Of emPloYment;    lb  gegiotered;    Ic  Regi.tered, cot all practiciLg in the.   - utry;   Id  Watr- piped Inoide.
MAURSTrUS            1970    /a  Ratio of population noder 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;       lb  Enciuding te-ho- training;     /c  5-12 and
13-18 yearn of age respectively.
R9, Auguot 19, 1976
0EPSNTTIOI OF SOCIAL nINDICATORS
2
L, d Ar- Ithl,                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Population par nursing person - Population divided by num,ber of practicing
TtlTtlsurface area comprinsing land area and imland vetern.                       male and female gradmate -moeo, "trained"I or 'certified'    lumses, and
Anti. - Mont recet atimate of agricultural are     used temporarily or per-             auxiliary persnneel. with training or experience.
naetly for crope,pacturna, market & kitchen gardan or to lie fellow.                  POpulation par hospital bed - Population divided by numbher of honpita1
GNP par capita CUSS   - GNP par capita en.timaten at currnt market prices,                beds availablo in public and Private general and opeciali.ed hospital
caliolated by nam   convrnion method     Worl Rank Atlas (1973-75 basia);               and rehabilitation cenero; ...ciodes -or ing homa    and establi.lmmto
1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                               for custodial and Preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories CE of requirements) - Computed fro
Population and vital atatiatica                                                           energy equivalent Of net food supplies -avalable in country per
POPulation (mid-yr. milin     - An of July firat: if not available, average               capita per day; avaIabl.e opplien cepries demestic production, Imports
of tun end-year Isincc       90, 1970 and 1975 data.                                    le.. exports, aod change n, to tok; not supplica eanlude anima     feed,
nends, quatitien used in fond Processing and iosoeo in distribution;
Population don.ity - per anoare he - Mid-year population per square kilo-                 requirements were eoti,oted by FAO ba...d on phynilogica1 neada for
meter  (100 hectar!a) of .total ara.ormal activity and health considering envirosmamtal temperature, body
Peuaion de.. it,   pr    ore s ofatric. lend - Cnipoted on above for                   we ight`,age and osr diotributions of population, and allowing 101 for
agricoltura1 land only.                                                                 waste at household levo.1
Per apia nonlyof  rotin (crame Por day) - P-otin contant of per
Vital statistics                                                                           capiPtanetTopply opf fon  perday; ne     .spply of food in defined an
Cruds birth rate par thousand -iAnnual live birthn per thousand of mid-year                above; requirements for all coontrien establiahed by RIMA Ec-onmic:
population; ten-year arithsntic averagen ending in 1960 and 1970, and five-             Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 g-mo     of total
yea  averge en     ingi  1975 for most recent estimate,                                 protein per day, and 20 graoe of animal and pulse Protein, of which
Crde det -aepr thouand -' Annual deaths Par thoouand of mid-year                        10 grab ahould he animal prntoio ; chose standards are losr than
population; ten-year crithm,stii averages ending io 1960 nod 1970 and                   thone of 75 scoe   of tot1 p-.-n end 23 St-m      of animal protnicno
.f!:ve-year avrgeedigi        1975 for mOot recent estimate.                             noavrage for the world, prupaed by PAO in tho Third Ucrld Poond
Infan  mortlityrate f/thou) - Annual deaths of Wnants onder one yeqr of               S-nvOy.
age. per thouscod live births.                                                        Per caieooennocyiaaial and pulae - Protein supply of
Lifa  aeoac     atbirth (yr.) - Average nunbr of years of life rea.ining                  fod derived (tnaiml         ndplesi       gr-   per day.
rt birth; snally,fiv--year averages ending io 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                 loath roem (thou5 agan 1-4 - Annual death     per thounond in age group 1-4
developing counries.                                                                    yearn, to childre   in thin oge group,. sggeoted an no indicator of
IroonreprouctI  rat  A-Avrage nonber of lIve daughter  awua    willmantio.
bear in her noMalI reproductive Prio    if she eoperienc.ee  present age-
specific fertility raten; usually five-year averagen anding in 1960,                  Education
1970 and 1975 for developing countrisa.                                               Adlunted   srn la    t rti   Pr -rmr  school - Enrollmnt of all ages an
Population growth rate  1     total -  Cempoud annual growth raten of mid-                percentage of primrU    oholaepopulation; includes childreo aged
yearY population fo   906.1960-70 and 1970-75.                                           6-11 years but adjusted for different lengtho of primary education;
fon,uAi-asR-th at.i1z..nrke       - temputd like growth rat    of total                 f or  ourinwith oniv-rna1 education, enrollm       t nay ec-od 1001
la -       different definitions of urban areas may affect cospara-                   since none pupils are below, or above the Official school age.
bility of data among countries.                                                       AdJusted enr,ollment ratio - secondary school -Cmue        oaoe
Urbanpopuation(1 o  totl) - Ratio of urban to total population , diffe-              ....ndary eduction requires at leant four yearn of approved primary
rent deinitions of urban aonan may affect compamebility of data among                   mntruction; proiden general, vocational or teacher training
countries.                                                                              isotrstion   for pupil. of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correpond-enc
Aite  tM=  _cent)- Childmnm (0-14 yearn) , working-age (15-64 years),               coursen are generally excluded.
adrtrd(5 yearn and over) as percentages of mid-year population.               Yearn of schoolinR provided (first and scond levels) - Total yearn of
Age darndgi     -. Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to                  schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may he partially
tha  fae  5 thruh_64.                                                           or inopletey Yesiluded.
tf    :  e-deey             Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over               Vocational enrollment CZ of secondary) - Vocational inotituti_n
toth   aor force in ae group of 15-64 yearn.                                        morlude technical, industrial or othmer programs which operate inde-
Family Plarming -   cetor    (Mmulative, thou) - Cumsulative nunber of                    pendently or as dparUsts o      seodar     inttto
acceptors of birthconrol1 devics under auspices of national famIly                    Adul lieayrt         M   - Literate adul ts (able to read and write) an
planning program since ince Ption,                                                      percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
Famly laming- uer   Cl of married women) - Psrcentages of married
w~  fcidbearing age (15-44 ynr    -wh    as birth-control deviceo             Hous ing
to all mArried wonen in sane age group.                                               Persons par coo  (average) - Average number of person    per roo  in
occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; deItingn eeclude mon-
pooanet oucure  ad. unoccPied part..
tItlFbrM    farce (thousand) - Economoically active Persona, Including                  cupddelis            thut pined water C)-Occupied conventional
armed forces and unemloyed hot excluding housewiven , students, etc.;                   dwellings in urban and mural area   without inside or  toutide Piped
definitions in various countries eon not compareble.                                    water facilities an percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Labor force in agtriculture (1  - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                 Acces  to elecricit   (1 of all dwellings) - Convaotional dwellings with
forestry, huntingm an    fihn)a     ecntg       fttllbor force,                        elcrct        nlvn     qurters asPercent Of total dwellings in urban
Unmloye07d Mof labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined an persons                   and rural areas.
who are able and willing to take a Job, out of a job on a given day,                  Rural dwelfin   onomomcted to electricity C)-Conputed a. above for
remained out ofa job, end seeking work for a specified mninino    period                rural dwellg    only.
not exceeding one week; nay not be comoparsble between countries don to
different definitions of unmployed and soure of data, e.g., employ-                   Consumoption
mont office statistics, sample survey., conpuloory oneploymot inaurancs.              Radio onceiver  Coo thro pop) - All types of receivers for radio brod-
casts to gemerl pubicpr thousand of Population; ealdea onlicensed
mcoeme dimetribution - Percentage of private income (both In cash and kind)               receivers in, countries and in, yearn when registration of radio sets wan
received by rioheot 51, richest 201, poorest 201, end pooret 401 of                     is effect; data for recent yearn nay ant be comparable since mot
houaeholds,                                                                             countries abolished licensing.
Passenger cars (per thou nop) - Pasoenger cars comprise motor car seating
Distribution of lend ownorhip       ecnae      of land owned by wealthiest                lens them eight persona; encludes amhulamces, hearen end military
101 and poorst    0  of land so   ers. a svehicle..
Electricity (huh/yr Per is    -Annual conasumption of industrisl, c-r-
Health and Nutrition                                                                      cial, public end prilvate electricity in kilowtt hours Per capita;
Popuatio  norphvician - Population divided by nmisber of practicing                  generally based onproduction data, without allowance for looses in
phynician    qualified frcn a medicsl school at univerity level                          grids but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Newaprint (kg/y   per Cap)   Per capita annual consumption im kilograms
entimeted iro d,.Itic productiOn Plus met Imports of newsprint.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
1972
Actual                               Prelim.     1967       1972      Share of
1L967 1/       1970 l/       1972       1973       1974      1975       1970       1975         GOP
NIATIONIAL ACCOUNTS
NIL US I at 19 72 Pric..
CDP                                       1257.3         1527.9        2044.0     2200.2     2333.2     2333.4      6.7      4.5         100.0
Gain. from TT                                3.4            12.1           -         I0.6    - 74.2     - 79.2       -         -            -
GDY                                       1261.3          1540.0       3044.0     2210.8     2261.6     2254.2      6.9       3.2         100.0
Import,                         ~~~~~~         ~~~380.1  483.4  650.8   644.0      672.8      572.4      8.3     -3.4           31.8
Emport: VImne                              37.             4.            8.        590.0      615.7      585.5      6.0      0.2          28.4
Eaport. Total Adj.                         374.4          454.3          580.9     600.9      541.5      506.3      6.7     -4.1          28.4
Re... rceGap                                 5.7           29.1           70.0      44.0      131.3       66.1       -        -            3.4
Total Consumption                         1012.2         1228.1         1639.7    1759.0     2006.9     1936.6      6.7      7.3          80.2
loveotmOflt                                254.2          340.9         449.4      495.9      383.6      383.6     10.2     -4.2          22.0
National Sayingo                           211.9           300.2         368.5     384.2      193.5      267.4     12.3     -2.1           19.0
Dmnetic Savings                            249.0          311.8         405.0      451.9      252.3      317.5      7.8     -4.1           19.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                             Anua   Da ta at Current Pr"ce                                      A. Percen.t of Total
1967         1970         1972       1973"      1974       1975               1967     1970    1975
Import.
Capital Good,                               105.5          122.4         174.7      187.1     265.2      277.5             31.4     27.7     29.7
Intenmdiate Good. (eacl.fuels)             118.3          173.2          184.8     240.7      407.0      268.6             35.2     39.2     28.7
Fuel,aod related mat-ra.                    35.0            41.3          57.4      65.6      225.6      351.1             10.4      9.3     26.9
of hbich:   Petroleom                     (34.3)         (40.2)        (56.6)     (64.4)   (224.3)    (249.8)           (10.23    (9.1)   (26.7)
Conaooptio. Good,                            77.4          105.5         117.9      128.9     ,164.7     137.2              23.0    23.8_    14.7
Total Notc. Import. (Cil)                  336.0          442.4          534.8     622.3     1062.5      934.4            100.0    100.0    100.0
Export.
Prim,ary Products (emcl. fuels)            111.2           144.2         178.4     245.3     276.8       259.4             49.8     50.0     45.2
Poole and related aateriala                 32.1            40.3          54.9      60.7     127.7       156.4             14.4     14.0     27.2
of whlh:    Petroleom                    (32.1)          (40.3)        (54.9)    (60.7)   (127.7)     (156.4)           (14.4)   (14.0)   (27.2)
Manufactured Good,                           79.8          104.1         113.4      157.0    172.7       158.2              35.8    36.1     27.6
Total March. Eaporte (fob)                 223.1           288.6         346.7     463.0     577.2       574.0            100.0    100.0    100.0
Tourism Receipto                             41.2           51.7          74.3       69.3     75.6        86.4
Merchandio, Trade Indices                                                   1972       1973       1974      1975
Export Price Indee                                                      100       114        154        0
Import Price Indem                                                     100        114        179        212
T-co   of Trade Indemo                                                       10010            86         83
Export, Vol1m,  Index                                                   100       115        111         98
Avoraic Aomu"' Growth Rote,         Perten t of Total
VALUE-ADDED BY SECTO                                                Annual Data at 1972 Price. and Each..ge Rates           1972-73  1973-74    1974-75        197         197E5
A "Icltur                                                                 602        608        618        617             1.0       1.6        -0.2           32          30
I.duatry and   ining0                                                       230        270       284        295            17.4       5.2         3.9           12          14
Services                                                                   1033       1091      1148       1152             5.6       5.2         0.3           56          56~
Total                                                                      1865       1969      2050       2064              5.6      4.1         0.7           100         100
PUBLIC PINANCE                                                         10 Current Pricco and Exchange Rates
(Central Government)                                               71/72     72/73     73/74    74/7   7   5/76
Current Rece Ipt.                                                  396       417       532      633       698
Current Expenditure.                                               360       391       458      580       630
Budgetary 1001080                                                   36   -6             74       53        68
Other Public Sector                                                  ..       .          .        .         .DETAIL ON cENTRAL. GOVT.                                 US$ million
Expenditure in Development Budget                                  145       173       166      264       349                  INVSIIMENT PROGRAM                   At 1976 P'ri...
(Rooloed 3-Year Pormard                    and           Z of
CURRENT EXPENDlITURE 00TA110                                                                                                   augt P7-FY79)                        Ecag       ae        oa
(7. of Total Current Expenditure)
Directly Productive Soctora                462            46.2
Ed-rtion                                                           24.2      26.7      26.2     27.2      27.8                EcOomnic Iofraotru.ttre                    280           28.0
Other Social Se-vice.                                              15.8      16.0      16.0     16.1      15.6                0oc1a1 Infrastructure                      216           21.6
Agrirulture                                                         7.4       7.3       7.3      6.5       7.3                Other                                       41             4.1
OtherE.. Ionoolo Se-ice.                                            7.9       7.6       6.8      6.9       6.9                  Total Requiromnta                        9_99           1007.
Admln. and Def...e                                                 37.1      33.6      34.0      33.0     31.2
Other (ciC    Inter,,t on debt)                                     7.7       8.7       9.7     10.2      11.1                PublIc Sector sOvingo                      365           36.5
Total Current Expenditure                                          100o     -1006       o 100   10        100                 POreign FinancLAg (net)                    346           34.6
Dozestio Financing (net)                   268            28.8
Total                                   999            1007.
SEILECTED INDICATORS                            1965-70        1973-74       1975-80
ICOR                                               3.0           3.3           3.2
Import Elanticity                                  1.0           0.5           0.93
Av. Nat. Saving Rote                              18.7          12.3          13.0
Marg. Nat. Saving Rote                             0.22         -1.56          0.12
Icap.rto/GDP                                      29.8          29.1          24.5
LABOR POC    ADTtlL                                     oroceValue Added Pet Worker (1971 -Price                                                    n    ah    Roles)
OTPUT PER  UOKRS                          Ilo,             7  fTtlSeSDolr                                                                      .fAvae
1971                 1971                                               1971                            1971
Agr-Icuture                              4647                   86r-                                               109                               3
Induotry                                  141                    3                                                1426                              475
Derelce                                   301                    6                                                1286                              429
Total                                    5377                  100                                                 300                              100
netovailable
1/ InaCntant 1967-69 E. ACPlA
Nil or negligible.                                                                                                                                            Mrh1.17



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in  Tillions of U. S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                 Estim.                                                                                   Actual
1972      1973      1974      1975                                                                     1972      1973      1974      1975
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Exports (incl. NFS)                  560         697       953       975            Total Debt ODtet. DOD End Period                        348.4     405.4      475.0     520.4
Imports (incl. NFS)                  605        751       1192      1104            Public Debt Service                                      24.9      28.7       30.6      31.4
Resource Balance                     -45         -56      -238      -129              Interest                                               14.5       16.3      18.0      19.4
Other M & L Tecn Debt Service                            25.0      25.0       25.0      35.0
Net Factor Service Income             -34       -103      -101       -99            Total Debt Service                                       49.9       53.7      55.6      66.4
Current Trr.efero (Net)              +39        +23        +17       +21        DEBT BURDEN
Balance on Current Account            -40       -131      -322      -207            Debt Sorvicc Ratio 5/                                     4.4        4.1       3.2       3.2
;   Debt Service Ratio 6/                                    12.3      19.9       14.5      11.7
Private Direct Investment             21          45        46        43
TERMS
Official Capital Grants              ..          ..         11        17
Intrernt on Total DOD/Total DOD                           4.7       4.9       4.6        4.2
public M & L Te.  Loans                                                             Total Debt Service/Total DOD                              8.1        8.5       7.8       6.9
Disbursements                         48          65        89       110
Anorti.ation                           -6        -17       -17       -17        EXPOSURE
Net Disbbromnenst                     42          48        72        93
IBRD Disb/Gross Total Dieb.                              30.4      18.3      12.2       35.0
Other M & L Term Loans                                                              Back Group  Diob./Gross Total Disb.                      38.9       33.8      32.5      40.3
Di bu   mnts                          30          53        81        32            IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        9.4       13.3      14.3      20.4
Aorti.stion                           -11        -10       -10       -10            Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 21.9       30.3      31.4      35.9
Net DiSburseeents                      19         43        71        22            IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      5.6       10.1      14.1      20.4
UDe of IMF Re-ources 1/                -          -         39        59            Bank Group Debt Service/Total D.S.                        6.9       11.8      15.7      22.3
Short Tern Capital Transactions        6          15        29       -11
Capital Trsnsaction    EI             24          -         -         -                                                                         Oattaading Dec. 31. 1975
Change in Reserves                    -24        -20       +54       -19        EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                Aoount                 Percent
(- increase) 2/
Foreign EXchange Reserves            202         233       193       174            IBRD                                                      106.0                   20.4
End of Period 3/                                                                Bank Group                                                187.2                   36.0
Other lobltilotersl                                         2.8                    0.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                              Governments                                               277.7                   53.4
of which Ca-trally Planoed Economies                     - 
Official Grants                       ..         ..         11        17            Suppliero                                                   10.5                   2.0
Total Public M & L Term Loans          97        101       161       369            Financial Institotions                                      18.3                   3.5
IBRD (TW)                         29          34        10       194            Bands                                                      22.0                    4.2
IDA                               28          -         34        26            public Debt, NEI                                            2.0                    0.4
Other Multilateral                 -           I        -          4            Tot.1 Public M & L Term Debt                               520.4                 100.0
Govermeents                        23         66       120        74            Other Public M & L Term Debt
of which Coot. planned 4/        -          -         -         -              Other M & L Tern Debt                                     300.0                  57.7
Soppliers                          -          -         -         48            Total Public Debt (incl. Undioburned)                     1071.0                 206.0
Financial Inotitutions             17          2        -         23            Total M & L Term Debt (incl. Lhdishuesad)                 1371.0                 263.7
Bonds                                        -                    -
Public Loans NEI
Other M & L Term Loans (priv-te)   -
Not available.                                                   2/ Eeluden net Use of IMF R..ourcns which arc             5/  Debt Service on public debt only.
Nil or negligible.                                                  ohown separately.                                      6/  Debt Service on public debt   other oedium-
1/  Net of "Drawings" and "Repaynent of Purchase" an reported in     3/ "International Reserves" S,osary Table in IFS.             and long-term debt (private), and net
the IFS Slooary Tablcs on Exchange Transactions.                 4/ Includos CMEA Countrien, Peoples Republic of China,        diroot investment income.
North Kores, North Vietnam.
EACPIA
March 16, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at February 28    1977
Loan or
Credit #   Year   Borrower       Purpose                    Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and ten (10) credits fully disbursed.
fully disbursed.                                          96.0    46.0
185        1970   Kenya          Education                            6.1      .8
224        1970   Kenya          Road Maintenance                   12.6      2.0
276        1972   Kenya          Highways                            22.0     2.7
826        1972   Kenya          Nairobi Airport            29.0              2.9
932        1973   Kenya          Highways                   29.0             17.1.
946        1973   IDB           DFC                          5.0               .6
463        1974   Kenya          Population                         12.0      9.3
477        1974   Kenya          Livestock                          21.5     20.1
993        1974   Kenya          Tea Factories              10.4              7.6
1093       1975   Kenya          Group Farm Credit           7.5              7.5
537        1975   Kenya         Group Farm Credit                     7.5     7.5
1105       1975   Kenya          Site and Service            8.0              8.00
543        1975   Kenya          Site and Service                     8.0     6.8
565        1975   Kenya          Agriculture-Forestry                10.0    8.5
1132       1975   Kenya          Agriculture-Forestry       10.0             8.1 2/
1133       1975   Kenya          Transportation-Pipeline    20.0              7.3
1147       1975   TRDC           Hydroelectric Development  63.0            37.5
1148       1975   IDB            DFC                        10.0              6.4
1167       1975   Kenya         Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply              35.0            34.8
1184       1975   Kenya          Education III              10.0              9.98
650        1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development                       10.0    10.00
1303       1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development               10.0            10.00
1304       1976   Kenya          Wildlife & Tourism         17.0            17.00
651        1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads                   4.0     4.00
1305       1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads          4.0             4.00
TOTAL                    363.9   159.7   261.6
of which has been
repaid                 10.0     0.3
TOTAL now outstanding    353.9   159.4
Amount sold      5.1
of which has
been repaid    4.5         .6      .0
TOTAL now held
by Bank & IDA           353.3   159.4
TOTAL undisbursed        188.3    73.2   261.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $6.6 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.  Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at February 28, 1977
Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor                 Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1968 &
1973     Kenya Hotel Properties     Hotels               5.2       2.7      5.9
1970 &
1974     Pan African Paper Mills    Pulp & Paper        11.9       5.7     17.6
1972       Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4        -       2.4
1975       Rift Valley Textiles,
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3       2.8      9.1
Total Gross Commitments              25.8       9.2     35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                           7.4       1.7      9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                        18.4       7.5     25.9
Total Undisbursed                     9.0        .7      9.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.    Projects in Execution   1/
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $61 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Effective Date: Auzust 5. 1970: Closinz Date: December 31, 1977.
The Droject is practicallv nompleted; only one school, thp Nveri
Secondary Technical School is behind schedule. It is now under construction
and making satisfactory progress    Nearlyv al  fiirnituire and eqnnipment have been
installed and are in use. Current estimates shows a modest cost overrun of about
TjUS$n -5 millinn- The Clocincr nnfat wnas eotenderld fromn nDrcmbnr 31, 1975 tn
December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is going well, though its final completion may be
delayedu Ll         1977 - some 18    Lk months behinu Lchedule  T Ie uelay is m-ainly
due to a slow start in construction of regional workshops on account of
unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition of sites and procurement
of steel. These difficulties have now been resolved and no further major
problems are anticipated on this project. Tne Closing Date was postponed from
June 30, 1975 to June 30, 1977.
Credit 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 19/2; Closing Date December 31, 1977.
The project has suffered heavily from recent inflation, with
estimated cost overruns amounting to 60% of the original appraisal estimates.
The Government has, therefore, proposed that the two outstanding items, the
Thuchi-Nkubu and Kissi-Mogonga road improvements be deferred until the proposed
Highway Sector Loan and the funds released are redirected to meet foreign
exchange cost overruns under the present project. Work is progressing satis-
factorily, after earlier delays on the other works included in the project.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Loan 826-KE - Nairobi Airport:   $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, while approximately 70% complete, has now reached a
point where further progress is in jeopardy. The current situation results from
a total project cost overrun of on the order of 79%, mostly arising from the
coincidence of the construction period and that of extraordinary world-wide
inflation. The cost problem was coiapounded by a termination of their contracts
by the principal construction contractors, resulting from a default of the
Government arising from its failure to make timely progress payments. The
Government appointed a special management group, steered at the permanent
secretarial level of the concerned ministries, to resolve these difficult
problems and insure completion of the project. Work is now proceeding normally.
Credit No. 344-KE - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 2, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The project progressed well and the credit was fully
disbursed.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems on organization, cost overruns and pricing. Government requested a
detailed review of the project and a joint IDA/other donors mission undertook an
indepth review. Their draft report is presently under discussion with Government.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into
production in November 1975, January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976 respectively.
Two more factories are now under construction and should be in operation by
November/December 1976. The documentation for three factories is now under pre-
paration and work should commence in early 1977 for completion early 1978. By
June 30, 1978, KTDA will have built 9 factories against the appraisal target of 14.
Because of high construction costs and operating costs, KTDA is studying the possi-
bility of extending existing factories instead of building new ones and designing
future factories to handle more than 1.2 kg/annum. Yields of green leaf are
lower than envisaged at appraisal but with the application of fertilizer from a
Commonwealth Development Corporation loan, improvements are expected.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Recruitment of staff has been slow, and selection of farms is
in progress but slow particularly for the mixed farms. The project is estimated
to be about 6 to 12 months behind schedule.
Credit 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Key project staff have been appointed and project execution is
proceeding satisfactory. The construction works for the first 1,000 site and
service plots have been substantially completed. All plots have been allocated
and the first occupants have now moved on to their plots. Design and
engineering for the remaining areas of the project are being completed by
consultants. The four studies financed under this project are progressing
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3, 1975;
Closing Date: February 1, 1979.
Contract negotiations for equipment and services obtained through
Japanese supplier's credits have been prolonged by cumbersome procedures and red
tape. This has delayed implementation of the project by about 6-8 months, but
the completion schedule can still be maintained if equipment suppliers hold to
promised delivery dates. Civil works are well underway. A 9% project cost
overrun is presently indicated. The economic return is still conservatively
estimated to remain above 20%.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Development of nurseries and preparation for planting is now well
underway. However, the drought has caused a setback in the plant-
ing program. Higher minimum wage for the forest workers and general infestation
has increased the cost of the project. The Land Use Committee has now been
established under the Ministry of Lands and Settlement whose members are composed
of the permanent secretaries of the Ministries involved with the use of land.
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
actual expenditure for the project amounted to 26% of the total estimated comple-
tion cost as of June 1976. As a result of the devaluation of the Kenya currency
in October 1975, the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan pounds, is expected to
be about 3% higher than the appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0 million
Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7, 1975; Closing Date:
July 1, 1979.
Project commitments are well under way.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan of
October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Progress is slower than anticipated. The initial equipment supply
contracts have been awarded, but the award of the major pipe supply and pipeline
construction contracts only recently took place and the project is now some 6-8
months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of December 31,
1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed, a
survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broad-
casting and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision are
being established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to review the
NCEOP report took place in January 1977.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10 million Loan and $10 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
This credit and loan were declared effective on March 15, 1977.
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project commitments are well under way.
Loan No.  1305-KE/Credit No.   651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:  $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:   October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project commitments are well under way.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
D. East African Community
There are six projects under execution.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railwys Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of con-
sultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues.
Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their
asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than 95%
complete.  The Closing Date    has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contracts, which have been awarded. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA, will have to be
deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters
financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been increased accordingly
from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port labor productivity has
stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-put has declined considerably.
General cargo through-put has increased above appraisal forecasts for
Dar-es-Salaam, where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been
completed and are being used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved
with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979.
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the relocation of the headquarters. Because of the
long lead time required for,-the microwave equipment, the project is expected
to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been
postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
E. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1977
(US$ Million)
No.         Year     Borrower     Purpose                    Amount less cancellations
Bank      Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                     75.0
638 EA      1969    EAHC          Harbours                     35.0         1.7
674-EA      1970     EARC         Railways                     42.4          9.3
l/
675-EA      1970     EAPTC        Telecommunications           10.4          0.0-
865-EA      1972     EAHC         Harbours                     26.5          6.8
914-EA      1973     EAPTC        Telecommunications           32.5          8.0
1204-EA     1976     EADB         Development Finance          15.0        15.0
Total                                           244.8        40.8
of which has been repaid                       36.9
Total now outstanding                           207.9
Amount sold                  24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4                 0
Total now held by Bank2/                        207.9
Total undisbursed                                40.8
1/ $8,481.87 remains undisbursed.
2/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:             Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:               US$25 million
TERMS:                Terms of 20 years including 4.5 years grace with
interest at rate existing on the date of loan
approval. About US$15.9 million of the proceeds of
the loan would be relent to the South Nyanza Sugar
Company for 20 years including a grace period of 4.5
years with interest at 10.5 percent per annum, $5.0
million would be passed on as equity and the remaining
US$4.1 million of the proceeds of the loan would be
used by the Government to finance project components
under its responsibility.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  South Nyanza Sugar Project: The Project would be implemented
over a 5-year period and consists of:     development of a
3,410 ha nucleus estate and 9,000 ha outgrower land; sugar
factory; construction of roads and tracks in the estate and
outgrowers' area; construction of staff houses and ancillary
facilities; strengthening of the National Sugar Research
Station and provision for sugar research by the Company;
overseas training to meet industry-manpower needs; strengthen-
ing of the Kenya Sugar Authority and special studies related
to its sugar industry.
COST ESTIMATES:       The estimated total cost of the project is about US$88.5
million including local taxes and duties estimated at
US$10.0 million.
US$ Million (Equivalent)
Local     Foreign     Total
Agriculture                         7.1        7.9        15.0
Sugar Factory                      9.2       29.0        38.2
General Management and
Administration                   2.1         1.8        3.9
Roads                              2.6        3.9        6.5
Housing and Social Amenities        3.7        1.9       5.6
Research                           0.6        0.7        1.2
Training                           0.2        0.2        0.4
Kenya Sugar Authority              1.5        0.7        2.2
Base Cost Estimates               27.0       46.1       73.1
Contingencies - Phiysical          1.8        1.8        3.6
Price              5.8        6.0       11.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    34.6       53.9       88.5
Interest during construction       --        16.8       16.8
GRAND TOTAL            347n       70.7      105.3



ANNEX III
Page 2
FINANCING PLAN: The project costs, excluding taxes and duties of $10 million,
would be financed as follows:
US$ million
World Bank Loan                    25.0
Suppliers Credit - Germany          6.8
Suppliers Credit - India            6.2
European Investment Bank           13.2
East African Development Bank       2.4
Eximbank                            2.6
African Development Bank            5.5
Government of Kenya                13.7
The Mehta Group Consortium          1.2
Company Self-generated Funds        8.7
Costs net of taxes
and duties                         95.3
Taxes and duties                   10.0
Total                   105.3
DISBURSEMENTS:    Fiscal Year       Annual        Cumulative
(US$ million)
1978             2.8               2.8
1979             3.9               6.7
1980             6.1              12.8
1981             6.7              19.5
1982             4.6              24.1
1983             0.9              25.0
Against appropriate documentation, the Bank would disburse on
the following basis:
(a) The South Nyanza Sugar Company
(i) 100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles, equip-
ment, office machines and furniture; 80% of the local
cost of imported items when purchased locally or, if
procured from local manufacturers pursuant to inter-
national competitive bidding, 100% of ex-factory cost
(US$2.40 million);



ANNEX III
Page 3
(ii)  30% of total expenditures for access roads and
tracks, including engineering, construction,
supervision and maintenance (US$0 .90 million);
(iii)  100% of the foreign cost of imported fertilizers,
fuel and lubricants; 80% of the local cost when
purchased locally (US$1.35 million);
(iv)  80% of Company salaries, excluding wages and
salaries of workers employed in the operation
of the factory, but including factory management
and administrative salaries and all non-factory
salaries and wages of the Company (US$4.50 million);
(v)  100% of foreign expenditures for the management fee
(US$0 .70 million);
(vi)  80% of total expenditures for houses and social
amenities, including architects' fees (US$5,00
million);
(vii)  100% of interest payments and the commitment fee
on the World Bank loan due on disbursements under (i)
to (vi) above from the date of signing of the loan
agreement and accruing before March 4, 1983
(US$3.04 million);
(b) The Government and the Kenya Sugar Authority
(i)  30% of total expenditures for roads other than access
roads and tracks, including engineering, construction,
supervision and maintenance (US$1.40 million);
(ii)  100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles and
equipment, fertilizers, fuel and lubricants and of
staff salaries plus allowances and recruitment
expenses for the National Sugar Research Institute;
80% of the local cost of items purchased and staff
hired locally (US$0 .70 million);
(iii)  100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles, furni-
ture, equipment, fuel and lubricants, and of staff
salaries plus allowances and recruitment expenses
for the Kenya Sugar Authority; 80% of the local cost
of items purchased and staff hired locally (US$1.20
million);
(iv)  100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training
(US$0.25 million)



ANNEX III
Page 4
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures of studies undertaken by the
Kenya Sugar Authority, including consultancy services and
related salaries; 80% of local expenditures (US$0.3
million).
PROCUREMENT:     For the Bank financed portion, procurement for vehicles,
equipment, office machines and furniture
fertilizers, would be bulked as far as
practicable and orders of US$100,000 or more would be
procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In the evaluation
of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Orders for less than US$100,000 and all incremental fuels and
lubricants would be procured in accordance with
existing Government procedures which are satisfactory.
Civil works (other than for construction of access roads
and tracks and civil works contract costing less than
US$200,000) valued at US$12.9 million would be carried out
by contractors selected following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In the
evaluation of bids for civil works, prequalified local
contractors would have a 7-1/2% preference margin. Civil
works with contracts or items costing less than US$200,000
would be done by contractors selected in accordance with
Government procedures. The construction of access roads
and tracks (US$3.6 million) would be done by the SNSC's
Road Construction and Maintenance Unit or to the extent
that the Unit's _apacity is exceeded by local contractors
selected in accordance with Government procedures. Architects
for the housing complex, and road engineering consultants woIldi
be recruited    in accordance  with   Bank  guidelines.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in
excess of US$300,000 would be submitted to the Bank for
approval before invitations are issued, and bid analysis for
comment before contracts are awarded. For project components



ANNEX III
Page 5
financea Dy tne other co-financing organizations,
procurement would be in accordance with their
guidelines.
MANAGEMENT AND    The Mehta Group International, Ltd., would provide management
CONSULTANTS:      services to the South Nyanza Sugar Company for the implementa-
tion of the project. The Agrima Project Engineering and Con-
sultancy Services, Ltd., would provide consultancy services
for the establishment of the sugar factory. Consultancy
services would be needed for the following:
(a) survey of roads and supervision of the road construction
program;
(b) architectural work for the housing program;
(c) Kenya Sugar Authority's special studies; and
(d) Clerk of Works to monitor progress under the turnkey
contract.
RATE OF RETURN:     The rate of return of the project is estimated at 25%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 1416-Kh dated march 4, 1977 entitled "Kenya -
Appraisal of the South Nyanza Sugar Project".
MAP:                Bank Map Nos. 12374, 12375, 12344 and 12431.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
KENYA
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            About two years
(b)  Preparation by:                           Mehta Group InternationaL
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank;             1974
(d)  First Bank Mission:                       October, 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:               May - June, 1976
(f)  Negotiations:                              February 10 - 14, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            August 1, 1977
II. SpeciaL Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1. The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) that the Government had taken all actions necessary to expand
the membership of KSA and to authorize it to carry out its
newly enlarged functions (para 62);
(b) an agreement satisfactory to the Bank covering the financing
terms between Government and the Company had been executed
(para 62);
(c) that evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the availability of



ANNEX IV
Page 2
the loans of the European Investment Bank and the
African Development Bank had been provided (para 62);
(d) a share subscription agreement satisfactory to the
Bank between the Company and Mehta had been entered
into (para 62); and
(f) the Company's General Manager, Controller and Agri-
cultural Department Manager had been appointed (para 62).
2. Other covenants of particular interest include:
(a) orderly resettlement of farmers displaced by the nucleus
estate (para 40);
(b) the continuous review by Government of the production and
consumption of sugar in Kenya, the reporting to the Bank of
the results of the review and of plans to market all sugar
produced in Kenya and of plans to invest in additional sugar
milling facilities (para 36); and
(c) the adjustment of the price of sugar cane for the years 1976
and 1977 and the annual review by Government of the prices
of sugar and sugarcane for the years 1978 and 1979 and the
annual review by the Government of the prices of sugarcane
(para 33).



IRRD 12374
C /                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA
S U D A N    -    -7  0o1                                            EY
S U D A N  7  4                       ~~~SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR PROJECT-
T-  H 0 PPRESENT AND POTENTIAL FUTURE
SUGAR CANE GROWING AREAS
X .To Add, i~b.         a
TURKANA                                                          MANDERA   j
MARSARIT  / 1                              /
R I  FFT T 
- E A   T E R N>
UGANDA             V A   L L E Y                   . *              N Q  I,,
ES. P/55y'>0K       SM:.B'' .  \~f-A ......     X N  0 Y R'.T I_H
MT ELGON               I         'a   ~~~~~~~~~~~ SO~)MALI
i/ESTERNa  } E~~ARINGC '';S,_FLO                     
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E A   S -T E R N
o                       t<_t ~~~~~~~~~~AI / T A   -     -                     0, 01  40 _ 44
NDI Eq                                                                 P U I  C \
rrA'K3yw      CHO      iLp     /\9hitV,2
T    K   Th
A               .                TATIKA RIVER ACM
LOThOO~~ A     L                                                        LL
kw~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0o               A   S TF /\ V\Y95
EXISTING- SUGAR AREAS-
SUGAR BELT              T/SoaIT
MIWANI
CHEMELIt
MUHORONi     *  UtmltplI>                    \  -   - 
2 MUMIAS                                                               IVIA     C-A
3  RASMISI                                              ,i .a   5-      N      OC
0   M  O0 CIaaalla9W KILIFI                         Ma0
FUTURE SUGAR AREAS.   ly IN aaa&o              a.
4  EALA .aadl         0M/
5  BUStA            d,
6  NZOIA          0Cilwo,s                      TArTA
7  KANO PLAIN     4\-!
a  SOUTH NYANZA  _   PTaa,tia olaaaleS
9  MERU.                                                                      AFI
10 EM1U    .   ......                        NI ...-1iiA                         9 .  -  / C AV
il  TANA RIVER  -_   NsalTEaa,T  ;                     KW E   { /                 0EI000 V'
0   00   *  ITO~12  600
010,0ElR5                                  \|                              'Y
0  TO 0  y t  40  ItO
MITTS              ,m 04109a0 TfOne8H5W~L9w5IWa         t  



IBRD 12375
|  | r   <   t rRA  <   { _ , ARA K V; t 1.      t>,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPTMBR 97
!  | |  t  ;   s m - *|   n         :  SMob /    @A/ GEYC
M   p  5-   I                             c. S  <                   F/2<:tgE eenyoKTAL  T. .li
W  L,,  H m       X   '              m         <    C K        t    X;MARKWr 
>1g;                                              (>  ;)  S  \  \ SjNe KAKA/EGA4 :/apsubel esXmwoson (d4~~~~~~~~y_
-                ~     t    'WF"r'll WNonJdl HgTRA i  NZOIA
K~~ .. k....
vt.;.;~~                                         S -> F  - 0 
_,  _-  4  v  ~~~~~~~-          -,     <                                4. ,: ~~~~N,
y'W';         t-\_j..            _ ~~~~~ 1            UAMEG
_ 61,..:., 1;'!li  >   \NA
i   *   s 1e ,. !'1 7lrn a . 1; l . 1-ll-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ T.  . 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-a
3X | SL    s           =       X Z!   s*s'' - -  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lf R        Na s x lz s-- 



IBRD 12344
SUDAN         OCTOBER 1976
'7   '7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S                                                                ,       ETHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPIA
UGANDTA
-.  ~~~~S  ~~~>7'v'e ~~~~~K E NYA
K        -    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d NAIROBI
0'                       ~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA 
*                                                 ..          .,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-            ,~~~~~~~~~~7e7e~~~~~~~~~~~v'77I  Bvv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deves'  7v*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fl   I h.......
Ax~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... .~pv- 
/  7  I          .                * I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roet  r.Bonw
..............  ..  ........ .......                                                 .. ....Ir   e ed Ro d
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /  ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~......   c.    od
oo~~~~~~~~~~~~-"K,  0  0  T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed. od
~~~   .  ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~I                                          Pr~~~~~~-   ollectiAre R oa nds arGy l  t nd r
*  7'~~~~                                                                             /         '5         5      ///////,7r'pow   7~Co UnsurvepedoAreatoeMuIrIn TyRood I
--  ,  /                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EWITIGUROADS LA5FIDRCD
5.,                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access RoodSands r
U(:  ~ ~ ~ ~~~/           /Feeder Road Stdd
ST                                                 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Ollcto Royds 111o2 Grael Standard
I                                               .                                     F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  OcWory pBte  see(2  Stun,erd tard r
*                                                               .                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xsgRacces RotdRetoirOW Typo,
/                                                           0                  Blt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l nRd ursenSodr
0  ,,Y  ~~~~~~~~~~\7r  W651 /                                                                         EXISTING UPGRADED CLASSIFIED ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~md~  1 2 
4S                            K--.--4-                                                                                                 A   2es Roa Stadar
KENYAFedr od tndr
SOUTH     NYANZA    SU     WA TPeROJ( GaElCrTdr
7''                                                                                  *        -    MOW Type II (2~~~ BltvesPROJStandOrd



-C
'IL,               'C          <477 ii
________________                            - a a       5 HVI
a'  -
<-F                               a                 >0>
/ 
/
A7
N ______________________________________



