CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1389 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(South Nyanza Sugar Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out in part by the Borrower
and in part by the South Nyanza Sugar Company, Limited (herein-
after called the Company) and in part by the Kenya Sugar Authority
(hereinafter called the KSA) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Company and KSA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(C) by agreement dated July 15, 1976 (hereinafter called
the Factory Erection Agreement) among The Mehta Group
International Limited, Maschinenfabrik Buckau R. Wolf
Aktiengesellschaft, Buckau Wolf New India Engineering Works
Limited, Agrima Project Engineering and Consultancy Services
Limited, the Company, and the Borrower, the parties thereto other
than the Company and the Borrower have a3reed to extend credit
to the Company in an aggregate amount equivalent to about


﻿-2-
$21,000,000 to assist in financing as much of Part B (1) of the
Project as will be required on the terms and conditions therein
set forth;
(D) the Company intends to contract from: (a) European
Investment Bank a loan equivalent to about $13,200,000 to assist in
financing Part B (1) of the Project; (b) East African Development
Bank a loan equivalent to $2,400,000 to assist in financing Part
B (1) of the Project; and (c) United States Export-Import Bank a loan
of at least $2,600,000 to finance agricultural equipment for Parts
B (5) and B (6) of the Project; and
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank a loan equivalent to $5,500,000 to assist in the
financing of Parts A (1) and B (2) of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith.between the Bank and
the Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Company" means the South Nyanza Sugar Company, Limited,
a private company limited by shares established and existing under
the laws of Kenya;
(b) "Company Subloan" means the loan from the Borrower to
the Company described in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(c) "Factory" means the sugar factory to be constructed
under Part B (1) of the Project;
(d) "KSA" means the Kenya Sugar Authority, a body corporate
established by the Kenya Sugar Authority Order (Legal Notice
No. 32 of 1973), as amended;


﻿-4-
(e) "Nucleus Estate" means the area designated as such on
Map number IBRD 12344 to be acquired by the Company for its
operations;
(f) "Project" and "Parts" thereof mean the projects and
parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes the schedule to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(h) "Project Area" means the area of about 77,000 hectares
designated as such on Map number IBRD 12344; and
(i) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant
to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated in, and in accordance
with, Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the Company to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Company to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn for Part B of the Project, other than proceeds withdrawn
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, available to the
Company under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include
those set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement unless the Borrower
and the Bank agree otherwise.


﻿-8-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall cause KSA to carry out Part C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, administrative and financial
practices and provide KSA, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(f) Without limitation to its obligations under the
preceeding paragraph (e), the Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn for Part C of the Project available to KSA,
promptly upon their withdrawal from the Loan Account.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in surveying
areas shown to be unsurveyed on Map number IBRD 12344 and in
engineering and supervising construction of the roads included in
Part A(l) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-9-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
Parts A and C of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
inritallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to KSA, as
the case may be, to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services for Parts A and C of the
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Parts A and C of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Parts A and C of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
cut of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in Parts A and C of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's


﻿- 10 -
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Parts A and C of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A and C of the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices t:he operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part A of the Project.


﻿- 11 --
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause KSA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of KSA.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KSA to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts, financial statements and expenditures in respect of Part
C of the Project of KSA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall provide for the orderly
resettlement of all persons displaced by the Nucleus Estate and
shall for this purpose designate the District Commissioner of
South Nyanza to: (a) assist such displaced persons who wish to do


﻿- 12 -
so in settling in the areas in which the Company will assist
outgrowers of cane, (b) monitor the Company's performance in
hiring such persons pursuant to its obligations under Section 2.08
of the Project Agreement and (c) assist such persons who are not
so settled or hired in finding suitable homes and work elsewhere.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall appoint a consultant or firm
of consultants satisfactory to the Bank by October 15, 1977, or
such later date as the Bank may approve, who: (a) shall report to
the Chairman of the Company's Board, (b) shall monitor the
performance of the Company under the Factory Erection Agreement
and the construction of the Factory (Part B (1) of the Project)
and shall, for this purpose, have access to all records, accounts
and staff of the Company, and (c) shall devote full time to the
performance of the foregoing duties until the acceptance tests for
the Factory have been successfully completed.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all action within its
power to ensure that the Bank is afforded an opportunity to comment
on any proposed appointment or replacement of the chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, agricultural manager, personnel
manager and factory manager (in each case, however described) of
the Company.
Section 3.11. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that:


﻿- 13 -
(a) KSA prepares a training program acceptable to the
Borrower for the sugar industry and submits such program to the
Bank for its comments by December 31, 1978 or such later date as
the Bank may approve;
(b) the membership of KSA is expanded and KSA carries out
the functions and expands its staff, in each case in accordance
with Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c) KSA submits to the Bank a plan for its long-term
financing, consistent with its functions described in such Schedule
by July 1, 1979, or such later date as the Bank may approve;
(d) the Bank is given an opportunity to comment on any
proposed appointment or replacement of KSA's planning officer,
agronomist and sugar technologist;
(e) KSA and the National Sugar Research Station, Kibos,
decide jointly on research priorities in the sugar sector;
(f) KSA operates and maintains its facilities in accordance
with appropriate agricultural and maintenance practices; and
(g) KSA carries out a study of the feasibility of increasing
inc'entives to farmers to grow cane by means other than increasing
the factory-gate price of cane.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall submit a comprehensive
research program for the National Sugar Research Station, Kibos,
and a timetable for its implementation to the Bank for comment
by July 1, 1978, or such later date as the Bank may approve.


﻿- 14 -
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank a plan for the
improvement of sugar distribution in Kenya and sugar marketing by
December 31, 1978, or such later date as the Bank may approve,
together with a schedule for its implementation which shall
include actions to be taken to improve (i) sugar market research
and analysis, (ii) domestic sugar allocation system, (iii)
organization of sugar transport, (iv) storage facilities, and (v)
accounting procedures for the Borrower's national sugar account.
(c) The established factory-gate price for sugar cane
shall be increased for each of the calendar years 1978 and
1979 by (i) adjusting it for inflation by reference to a price
index acceptable to the Bank and (ii) after such adjustment,
increasing such price by a further incentive percentage which
shall not be less than six per cent. The prices in Kenya for sugar
cane and for sugar shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower, and
the Bank shall be provided a report on the outcome of such review,
promptly after its completion. To the extent that such prices are
subject to the Borrower's control, they shall be set at levels
which will permit the Company to meet its obligations under
Article 4 of the Project Agreement, assuming efficient
operation of the Company.
(d) The Borrower shall keep the projected production and
consumption of sugar in Kenya under continuous review and shall


﻿- 15 -
furnish the Bank and the European Investment Bank at least annually,
a report on the results of such review and its anticipated
investments in Kenya's sugar sector for the three-year period
following the date of such report and its plans for marketing all
sugar estimated to be produced in Kenya in the next three years.
The Borrower shall inform the Bank and the European Investment
Bank of any plans of the Borrower to promote or invest in any
substantial additional sugar milling facilities and shall afford
the Bank and the European Investment Bank an opportunity to
comment on such proposed promotion or investments.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall maintain all roads and
tracks constructed or improved under the Project other than roads
and tracks owned by the Company in accordance with sound
engineering practices and shall make adequate budgetary provision
for this purpose in its recurrent budget.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Negative Pledge Covenant
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿- 17 -
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the
East African Community securing a debt of the Community where the
amount of the debt service on such debt in any financial year
together with other debt service on other debt of the Community
payable from such General Fund in such financial year does not
exceed 2% of the average customs and excise duties collected by
the East African Customs and Excise Department in the three
financial years preceding such incurrence. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "debt service" shall include payments of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, debt; and any
reference to incurring of debt shall include the assumption and
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension of modification of
the terms of the debt or of the assumption of guarantee thereof.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,


﻿- 18 -
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Company shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Company will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of the Company
or KSA or for the suspension of any of their operations;
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Company, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Company's business or the Company's financial situation or the
efficiency of the Company's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project;
(e) the Company shall be unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby
any of the property of the Company shall or may be distributed
among its creditors;


﻿- 20 -
(f) the acceptance tests for the Factory shall not have
been satisfactorily completed in the manner prescribed in the
Factory Erection Agreement (as such Agreement stands on
February 1, 1977) by February 1, 1980;
(g) the Kenya Sugar Authority Order (Legal Notice No. 32 of
1973), as amended pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement,
shall have been repealed, cancelled or abrogated or the same shall
have been further amended in such a way as to-impair substantially
the capacity of KSA to carry out its functions and responsibilities
without the Bank's consent;
(h) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or the Company, as
the case may be, to withdraw the proceeds of
any of the loans described in paragrapIs (D)
and (E) of the Preamble to this Agreement
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
therefor, or


﻿- 21 -
(C) the Borrower shall have failed to obtain the
right to withdraw the proceeds-of such loans from
the European Investment Bank or from the African
Development Bank by September 1, 1977.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination, prematuring or failure is not caused by the
failure of either the Borrower or the Company, as
the case may be, to perform any of its obligations
or fulfill any conditions under any such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or the Company, as the case may
require, from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of the Company under the
Project Agreement; and
(i) a representation made by the Company in or pursuant to
the Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Bank in making
the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.


﻿- 22 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (g), (h) (i)
(B) or (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Company has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Company, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c) all action necessary to expand the membership of KSA as
described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and to authorize it
to carry out the functions described in such Schedule has been
taken;
(d) evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the availability of
the loans from the European Investment Bank and the African
Development Bank described in paragraphs (D) and (E) of the
Preamble to this Agreement has been provided;
(e) appropriately qualified persons have been employed by
the Company as general manager, chief financial officer and
agricultural manager; and


﻿- 24 -
(f) the Company and the Mehta Group International Limited
have entered into a share subscription agreement satisfactory
in form and substance to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Company, and is legally binding upon the Company
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
the Company in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the land in the Nucleus Estate (which shall be
described in the opinion covering this matter) is available to the
Company free from any claims of rights of occupancy or use (excepting
rights to use roads) by any party other than the Company, and the
Company may use such land and the water of the Sare River for the
purposes required for carrying out the Project; and
(d) all action necessary to expand the membership of KSA as
described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and to authorize KSA to
carry out the functions described in such Schedule has been
taken.


﻿- 25 -
Section 6.03. The date August 16, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 27 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By Is/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) For Parts A and C
of the Project
(Borrower and KSA):
(a) Engineering, con-        1,400,000       30%
struction and
maintenance of
roads in the
Project Area
(b) Vehicles, equip-           700,000       100% of foreign
ment and operating                      expenditures and
expenses (includ-                       80% of local
ing salaries)                           expenditures
for the National
Sugar Research
Station, Kibos
(c) Vehicles, equip-         1,200,000       100% of foreign
ment, operating                         expenditures and
expenses (includ-                       80% of local
ing salaries) and                       expenditures
consultants' fees
for KSA
(d) Consultants' fees          300,000       100% of foreign
for studies under                       expenditures and
Part C (3) of the                       80% of local ex-
Project                                 penditures


﻿- 29 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(e) Overseas training          250,000       100% of foreign
for sugar industry                      expenditures
(2) For Part B of the Project
(Company):
(a) Vehicles, equip-         2,400,000       100% of foreign
ment and furniture                       expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures or, if
procured from lo-
cal manufacturers
pursuant to inter-
national competi-
tive bidding,
100% of ex-factory
cost
(b) Engineering, con-          900,000       30%
struction and
maintenance of
roads in the
Project Area
(c) Fertilizers, fuels       1,350,000       100% of foreign
and lubricants                          expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(d) Salaries of man-         4,500,000       80%
agerial and ad-
ministrative
personnel and
of other personnel
not employed in
the Factory
(e) Management                 700,000       100% of foreign
assistance                              expenditures


﻿- 30 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(f) Design and               5,000,000       80%
construction
of staff housing
and common facil-
ities for staff
and guests
(g) Interest and             3,040,000       Amounts due
other charges
on the Loan
withdrawn under
category (2),
accrued on or
before March 14,
1983
(3) Unallocated                   3,260,000
TOTAL        25,000,000


﻿- 31 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "lociil expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of paymento made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿- 32 -
of $500,000 may be made on account of withdrawals under Category 2
for paymnts made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 15, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 33 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿34-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts, which will be
carried out by the parties indicated below:
Part A (to be carried out by the Borrower):
(1) Construction, and maintenance during the Project
implementation period, of about one kilometer of
bituminized factory access road, 7 kilometers of
bituminized collection roads, 25 kilometers of
gravel collection roads, 112 kilometers of gravel
feeder roads and 41 kilometers of access roads
including all necessary bridges and either an
underpass under, or a bridge over, National Highway
A.1 at the point it meets the access road to the
Company's factory (see Map number IBRD 12344).
(2) Strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's National
Sugar Research Station, Kibos, by providing seven
additional professional staff, adequate supporting,
non-professional staff, eleven vehicles and adequate
laboratory and field equipment.
Part B (to be carried out by the Company):
(1) Erection of a factory near Awendo Township for the
manufacture of mill white sugar, having the capacity to


﻿- 35 -
mill 2,000 tons of cane in a 22-hour working day, and so
designed as to be capable of being readily expanded to
a capacity of 3,000 tons of cane per day. The Factory
will include cane-handling facilities; mill; equipment
for juice clarification, evaporation, boiling, cooling,
curing, sugar drying and bagging; steam and power
generating plants; factory and agricultural workshops; a
laboratory; all standard auxiliary equipment; and an
adequate supply of spare parts for the foregoing.
(2) Construction and improvement, and maintenance during the
Project implementation period, of about 150 kilometers
of gravel access roads and about 400 kilometers of gravel
or earth access tracks (see Map number IBRD 12344). The
location and standards of the roads referred to in this
paragraph are subject to the agreement of the Bank and
the Company.
(3) Construction of housing for 11 managerial staff, about
35 other supervisory staff, and for about 780 laborers
near the factory referred to in Part B (1) above and
social facilities including guest housing, dispensary,
child day-care center and stores together with utilities
and waste disposal facilities and streets.
(4) Training agricultural, Factory and administrative staff
for the Company as required.


﻿- 36 -
(5) Planting about 2,650 hectares of cane in the Nucleus
Estate and constructing about 60 kilometers of cross
drains and about 43 kilometers of main drains in
connection therewith, within four years from the date
of this Agreement.
(6) Development in the Project Area of about 9,000 hectares
of cane to be grown by farmers with the Company's
assistance outside the Nucleus Estate within six years
from the date of this Agreement.
(7) Providing management, staff, office facilities, vehicles
and equipment to accomplish the foregoing and carrying
out research to improve sugar production in the Project
Area.
Part C (to be carried out by KSA with the Borrower's assistance):
(1) Strengthening KSA by providing 7 additional professional
staff, adequate supporting, non-professional staff, three
vehicles and additional office and research equipment.
(2) Preparing and initiating implementation of a national
training program for Kenya's sugar sector.
(3) Carrying out sugar sector studies which have been approved
by the Bank with the assistance of consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1982.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1982
through   September 15, 1996                 805,000
On March 15, 1997                                 850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 38 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8.50%


﻿- 39 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Goods and civil works will be bulked to the maximum extent
practicable for the purpose of attracting bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for fuels, lubricants and fertilizer; contracts for
other goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent; and
contracts for construction of civil works and for Company housing
and social facilities estimated to cost less than $200,000 may
be awarded following local competitive bidding and in accordance
with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
2.   Contracts for items not subject to bulking or bulked packages
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be awarded
pursuant to such competitive procedures as are appropriate under


﻿- 40-
the circumstances, provided that the aggregate cost of contracts
so awarded shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
3.   The Company may construct access roads and tracks for which
the Company is responsible (see Part B (2) of the Project) by
force account to the extent the Company's capacity to do so is not
exceeded in the opinion of the Bank; but to the extent it is,
contracts for the construction of such roads and tracks may be
let following local competitive bidding in accordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures.
C.   Procurement Responsibilities
1.   Procurement for the National Sugar Research Station, Kibos,
shall be carried out by the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
2.   Procurement for the Company and the KSA shall be carried out
by the Company and KSA, respectively.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be


﻿- 41 -
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Kenya equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 42 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 43 -
E.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Categories 1, 3 and 8 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and


﻿- 44 -
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
F.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed
Awards and Final Contracts by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
-adescription of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines


﻿- 45 -
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for sich determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 46 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms to be Included in Subsidiary
Financing Agreement
(Section 3.01 (c))
1.   Of all amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account for purposes
of Part B of the Project under Categories 2 (a) through (f)
inclusive:
(a) until such time as the aggregate amount withdrawn
reaches $5,000,000 equivalent, the amounts withdrawn will be
provided, promptly upon withdrawal, to the Company in exchange
for its shares, which shall be held by, and for the benefit of,
the Borrower; and
(b) thereafter the amounts withdrawn shall be Jent to the
Company, promptly upon withdrawal, on the terms hereinafter
provided (the Company Subloan); provided that any such amounts
as are agreed between the Borrower and the Company to be allocable
to construction, improvement and maintenance of roads which
are, or are to become, the property of the Borrower shall be
provided to the Company as a grant.
2.   The Company Subloan shall be denominated and repayable in
Kenyan shillings. Provision shall, however, be made for the
Borrower to pass on to the Company a share of the risk of fluctuation
in the values of currencies borne by the Borrower on the Loan
proportionate to the amount of the Loan relent to the Company.


﻿- 47 -
3.   Interest on the Company Loan shall accrue, from the
respective dates amounts lent to the Company under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement have been withdrawn from the Loan Account or
added to the principal amount of the Company Subloan as provided
below, at the rate of 10-1/2% per annum and shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, provided that amounts
owing on such dates shall not be paid by the Company but shall be
added to the principal amount of the Company Subloan on each such
date until such time as the amounts so added aggregate the greater
of the equivalent of $3,040,000 or the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account under Category 2 (g).
4.   Charges on the Loan which are allocable to amounts of the
Loan withdrawn for Part B of the Project other than interest and
commitment charges shall be paid by the Company to the Borrower
semi-annually in arrears.
5.   The principal of the Company Subloan shall be repaid in 31
substantially equal semi-annual installments of principal
on each March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 1982 and
ending March 15, 1997.
6.   The Company shall be prohibited, without the Borrower's
consent, from granting any mortgage or creating any lien on any
of its assets or taking any other action which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of any creditor in the


﻿- 48 -
allocation, realization or distribution of the Company's assets,
excepting: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
7.   The Company shall undertake to fulfill all its obligations
under the Project Agreement and to take such action as is required
on its part to enable and assist the Borrower in meeting its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
8.   The Borrower shall undertake to provide the Company
additional funds, sufficient to enable the Company to carry out
Part B of the Project at least in amounts, to be set out in the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, reasonably estimated to be
sufficient for such purpose on terms consistent with the Company's
obligations under Article 4 of the Project Agreement, provided
that the provision for equity contributions by the Borrower to the
Company may alternatively be covered by a subscription agreement
satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank.


﻿- 49 -
SCHEDULE 6
Program to Strengthen KSA and Improve the Sugar Industry
(Section 3.11 (b))
Functions and Objectives
The KSA shall inter alia:
(a) assist the Government in the comprehensive planning and
formulation of sugar industry development programs
consistent with overall national objectives, policies
and programs;
(b) advise Government on the technical, financial and
economic aspects of projects proposed for implementation;
(c) effectively evaluate and monitor the progress of
implementation of projects and programs undertaken by
various agencies tu ensure that Government is promptly
informed of delays and problems and advised of action
required to achieve the targets in accordance with plans;
(d) recommend policies for Government consideration designed
to promote and foster industry development;
(e) provide effective liaison between the various sugar
industry segments and the Government agencies concerned
with specific problems of the industry;
(f) compile relevant industry statistics in a timely fashion;
and


﻿- 50 -
(g) in consultation with appropriate institutions,
formulate and implement training programs and monitor
training activities of companies operating sugar
factories.
The Board of Directors
The KSA shall be headed by a Chief Executive who shall report
to the members of KSA to be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
in accordance with the Agriculture Act (Cap 318) and the Kenya Sugar
Authority Order. The members of the KSA will include representatives
of:
Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services
Ministry of Lands and Settlement
Provincial Commissioners
Sugar millers
Sugarcane growers
Banking Industry


﻿- 51 -
Staff
KSA shall by January 1, 1978 employ at least the following
staff:
Chief Executive
Planning Officer
Financial Analyst
Economist/Statistician
Agronomist
Agricultural Extension Specialist
Sugar Technologist
Training Officer
Appropriate Supporting Staff


