CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1389 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(South Nyanza Sugar Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO,6TRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED
Dated April 15, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the
Company).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Company agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary financing agreement between the Borrower
and the Company, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Company
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "subsidiary"
means any company of which a majority of the outstanding voting
stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Company or by any one or more subsidiaries of
the Company or by the Company and one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company shall carry out Part B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist in managing the Company,
the Company shall employ, during the Project implementation
period, a management firm whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) In order to assist in designing the housing and social
facilities described in Part B (3) of the Project, the Company
shall employ architects whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower and the goods to be imported for the
construction of the Factory under the Factory Erection Agreement


﻿4
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Company to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Company
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contracts documents (including documents relating to the
Factory Erection Agreement) and construction, cane development
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Company: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the


﻿-5-
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The Company shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Company and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. The Company shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Company shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.


﻿"6-
(b) The Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any
-tondition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Company of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Company shall give priority in hiring
its staff to persons displaced by its acquisition of the Nucleus
Estate.
(b) The Company shall take such action, consistent with its
obligations under the Factory Erection Agreement, as is within its
power to ensure that such persons are employed to assist in
erecting the Factory.
Section 2.09. The Company shall carry out its operations with
due regard to environmental considerations including in particular
appropriate water and air quality standards. In particular the
Company shall install, or cause to be installed, in the Factory
the air and water purification facilities provided for in the
Factory Erection Agreement, as such Agreement stands on
February 1, 1977.


﻿-7-
Section 2.10. The Company shall carry out Part B (6) of the
Project (outgrower development) in accordance with sound
agricultural principles and in accordance with staffing plans and
general principles acceptable to the Bank including, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, those described in the Schedule to this
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. (a) The Company shall carry out Part B of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management
and personnel, and in accordance with its Articles and Memorandum
of Association.
(b) The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Company shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Company by the Borrower or
its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
woU.ld have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.03. If the Company establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Company shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Company hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.


﻿Section 3.04. The Company shall afford the Bank an opportunity
to comment on any proposed appointment or replacement of its chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, agricultural manager,
personnel manager and factory manager.
Section 3.05. The Company shall maintain all its assets in
accordance with sound engineering practices and sbe'll, In
particular, maintain and operate the machinery and equipment in
the Factory in accordance with manuals and directions provid4ed
pursuant to Article 9.6 of the Factory trection Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Company shall maintain its corporate
existence and any licenses and francises required to enable it
tu carry out Part B of the Projee. an. shall not dispose of any
of its assets, except in t'te normal course of business, without
the Bank's consent.


﻿-10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. As used in this Article:
(a) "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories (excluding spare parts)
valued at the lower of cost or market.
(b) "Current liabilities" means all obligations of the
Company due on demand or within one year or whose liquidation is
reasonably expected to require the use of existing sources
classified as current assets. Obligations sh&ll include but not
be limited to accrued taxes on, or measured by, income and current
maturities of long-term debt.
(c) "Capital additions" means the aggregate of all the
expenditures or costs incurred by the Company for the acquisition
and ownership of land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture,
fixtures and all other tangible fixed assets and investments in,
or loans to, other business entities.


﻿- 11 -
(d) "Net worth" means the aggregate amount of the Company's
unimpaired capital, surplus (including any revaluation reserve
attibutable to exchange rate fluctuation but excluding any reserve
allocated to cover specifc liabilities) and reserves out of
surplus determined in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices.
(e) "Adjusted net earnings" means the net income of the
Company computed in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices, after deducting all debt amortization payable
during the applicable period in excess of depreciation for
such period, and after excluding any net gain arising from
the sale or revaluation of capital assets or from the
acquisition, retirement or sale of any securities issued or
owned by the Company and "accumulated adjusted net earnings"
means the amount resulting from netting the adjusted net
earnings of the Company for the year in question with the
adjusted net earnings for each of the fiscal years of the Company
preceding the year in question.
(f) "Commercial Operation Date" means the date on which the
acceptance tests provided for in the Factory Erection Agreement
are successfully completed or, if such tests are not successfully
completed, the date of the first day as of which the Factory has,


﻿- 12 -
for a period of 60 consecutive days, crushed 80% of its rated
cane capacity in the aggregate for 60 consecutive days preceding
such date without allowance for shutdown for maintenance.
Section 4.02. (a) The Company shall: (i) have the separate
acccounts referred to in paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal
year, up to and including the fiscal year in which withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall have terminated, audited, in accordance
with consistently applied appropriate auditing principles, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
(b) the Company shall furnish to the Bank all auch
information concerning such accounts, expenditures and documents,
and the audit of the accounts, as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Company shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)


﻿- 13 -
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four iaonths after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of tIhe Company
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Company represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Company to the Bank.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Company shall: (a) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.07 of
this Agreement; and (b) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Company's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
Section 4.06. The Company shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the


﻿-14-
Company which would materially and adversely affect the Company's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Company, the Company shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any long-term debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the consolidated long-term debt of the Company and
all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than 1.7 times the consolidated capital and positive
surplus of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "long-term debt" means any debt incurred by the
Company or any subsidiary maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the Loan
Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount
of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement, and (B) undef a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into
but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;


﻿- 15 -
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Kenyan shillings
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Company
for the purposes of servicing such debt or in the
absence of such rate of exchange, another rate
acceptable to the Bank;
(iv)  "consolidated long-term debt of the Company and
all its subsidiaries" means the total amount of
long-term debt of the Company and subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or
to any other subsidiary; and
(v)  "consolidated capital and positive surplus of the
Company and all its subsidiaries" means the
aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus
if it is represented by a positive number and free
reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall


﻿- 16 -
represent equity interests of the Company in any
subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Company or
any other subsidiary.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Company shall not, prior to the Commercial Operation Date, make
expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for capital
additions except expenditures, ur commitments for expenditures,
required for the carrying out of the Project and for the purpose
of increasing the capacity of the Factory to up to 3,000 tons of
cane per 22-hour day; and, for the three year period following
the Commercial Operation Date, the Company shall not make any
such expenditures or commitments except:
(a) expenditures, or commitments for expinditures, required
for carrying out the Project and operation of the Factory, or
repair, maintenance or replacement of assets and for the purpose
of increasing the capacity of the Factory to up to 3,000 tons of
cane per 22-hour day and correspondingly expanding outgrower
development; and
(b) investments in short-term marketable securities solely
for the purpose of temporarily employing funds at the time not
required to be held as cash; and


﻿- 17 -
(c) other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000 in any
fiscal year.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, all
depreciable assets of the Company shall be fully depreciated in
conformity with appropriate accounting practices applied on a
consistent basis and, without limitation thereto, the depreciable
fixed assets included in the Factory relating to manufacturing
operations shall be fully depreciated with a period of fifteen
years starting at the close of the fiscal year during which such
assets are placed into service.
Section 4.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Company shall not take any of the actions referred
to in paragraph (c) of this Section until the expiry of a period
of two years from the Commercial Operation Date;
(b) the Company shall not declare any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its share capital except out
of its accumulated ajusted net earnings; and
(c) the Company shall not pay any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its share capital (other than
dividends or distributions payable solely by way of the transfer
of additional share capital of the Company to its shareholders in


﻿- 18 -
proportion to their holdings of the Company's existing share
capital at the time) or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire,
directly or indirectly for any consideration, any of such share
capital, or such additional share capital, or otherwise reduce its
outstanding share capital or prepay any long-term debt if, after
giving effect to such action, the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities would be less than 1.5:1.
Section 4.11. (a) Except at the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Company shall take such action as shall be necessary: (i) as
from the Commercial Operation Date, to maintain a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of at least 1.5:1; and (ii) as from
the Company's fiscal year in which the third anniversary of the
Commercial Operation Date occurs, to meet out of its sales and
interest revenue in each fiscal year its full operating,
administrative and distribution expenses including adequate
provision for maintenance, depreciation, taxes, surcharges and
other levies and interest on long-term and other debt, and to
earn in respect of each such year a reasonable rate of return,
after taxes, on its net worth.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section
and Section 4.09 of this Agreement, the assets of the Company
shall be revalued in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Company thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify the Company of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
%"de 4heu it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Company:
South Nyanza Sugar Company Limited
P.O. Box 41175
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                       Telex:
SONY SUGAR                          22499 "SUCCESS"


﻿- 21 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Company may be taken or executed by
its General Manager or such other person or persons as the Company
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Company shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence ol the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf
of the Company, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Company pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United State of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOUTH NYANZA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE
Outgrower Development
(Section 2.10)
1.   A farmer will be eligible to participate in the Company's
outgrower program only if the farmer has, or has together with
other farmers agreed to form, a block of land of sufficient size
for the efficient production of cane (which, until the contrary
is established, shall be taken to be at least ten hectares)
suitable for sugar cane on which sugar cane will be cultivated.
The Company will enter into contracts with farmers chosen to
participate (hereinafter called "Outgrowers") which will reflect
the principles contained in this Schedule.
2.   Outgrowers will be bound to clear the land agreed to be
cultivated to the extent this can be done by hand, to plant
seedcane and apply fertilizer, to weed the cane and otherwise to
cultivate the cane in accordance with the Company's reasonable
instructions and to sell all the cane they produce on such land to
the Company.
3.   The Company will be bound to clear land to the extent this
cannot be done by hand and prepare the land for planting after
clearing, to provide seedcane, fertilizer and any other inputs
(including small tools) required, to provide adequate extension
services, to harvest the cane, to transport it to the Factory and
to purchase all the cane the Outgrower produces on the land
covered by his agreement with the Company.


﻿- 24 -
4.   The Outgrower and his family will have the right to
interplant appropriate crops in cane fields in accordance with
the Company's reasonable instructions and to be employed by the
Company to harvest his cane at wages prevailing in the Project
Area for such labor.
5.   The Company will establish a loan account on its books for
each Outgrower in which shall be recorded the amounts to be
charged the Outgrower (the "Outgrower Loan") for each of the items
described in paragraph 3 of this Schedule which shall be entered
as of the date the particular goods or services involved are
provided to the Outgrower. The Company will charge intere.'t at
the rate of at least 11% per annum on Outgrower Loans. Interest
will accrue from the respective dates principal amounts of the
Outgrower Loan are entered as provided above. Amounts of
principal and interest due on the Outgrower Loan will be deducted
by the Company from payments to the Outgrower for cane harvested
in such a manner as to spread the burden of repayment reasonably
evenly over the initial, and subsequent ratoon, harvests. The
net amount due the Outgrower will be paid promptly after delivery
of his cane to the factory.


﻿- 25 -
6.   The amounts the Company charges for the items described in
paragraph 3 of this Schedule, and for any other goods or services
provided by the Company to Outgrowers, shall be set at levels
reasonably estimated to ensure that the aggregate of such amounts
for any year does not exceed the costs to the Company of providing
such goods or services. Such costs to the Company will be
determined on the basis of sound cost accounting principles and
will include, in addition to the Company's direct costs in
servicing Outgrowers, a reasonable portion of the Company's
general overhead expenses but shall exclude any provision for
losses on Outgrower Loans.
7.   The Company will establish and maintain a cost accounting
system adequate to serve this purpose and to reflect in general
the costs of the Company's operations. The Company will furnish
the Borrower and KSA an annual report within four months from
the end of each of its fiscal years covering (i) the estimates
made for the past fiscal year of the costs to be covered under
paragraph 6 above and the basis therefor, (ii) the amounts
charged Outgrowers for the items described in paragrpah 3 above
during such year, (iii) the Company's actual costs in providing
such items and (iv) the amounts to be charged Outgrowers for such
items in the then current fiscal year and the basis for setting


﻿- 26 -
such amounts. In the event that outgrovers are substantially
overcharged or undercharged for items provided by the Company
in any year, appropriate steps will be taken to rectify the
discrepancies involved.
8.   The Company will establish and maintain an outgrower
committee, the members of which will be representatives of
the Borrower, the Company and outgrowers. Representatives
of outgrowers will be chosen by methods adequate to ensure
fair representation of their interests. This committee will
meet regularly for the purpose of promoting harmonious
cooperation among Government officials, outgrowers and the
Company.


