Report No. PID3812
Project Name                     China-Liaoning Urban Transport Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transportation, Urban Transport
Project ID                       CNPE41890
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal
Project Office (LUCPRO)
Mr. Zeng Juequn, Director
No. 282 Danan Shenhe
Shenyang 110015
Liaoning Province
Tel:   (86 24) 481 2920
Fax:   (86 24) 481 2392
Projected Appraisal              December 1998
Projected Board Date             March 1998
Country and Sector Background
Liaoning Province has proposed a project to support urban transport
development in the three cities of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun, all located in
the center of the Province within 1-2 hours drive of each other. The cities
have urban populations of approximately 3.9, 1.6 and 1.4 million respectively,
which rank them all among the largest cities in China.
2. All three project cities of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun face common issues
with respect to the development of their urban transport systems. These
include:
Inadequate Road Network. A major obstacle in each city's road network is the
division of the central area by rail lines. Other factors include:
underdeveloped primary road system within the road hierarchy; missing links in
the road network causing poor network connectivity; and inadequate budget and
institutional arrangements for road maintenance.
Loss of Public Transit Mode Share. Several factors contribute to declining
mode shares for public transit including increasing motorization of travel
with rising affluence. Other issues facing public transport include: slow bus
operating speeds (slower than bicycle travel, ranging from 5-8 km/hr); poorly
developed route networks and transfer points; popularity and growth of minibus
services which have poor operational discipline causing congestion at stops;
underdeveloped regulatory capacity to manage competition and the entry of new
participants; and ongoing reform of operations within a context of fixed
public operating subsidies and fare structures.
Chronic and Recurrent Congestion. Slow operating speeds and safety incidents
are caused by a number of factors including lack of proper control and
management of mixed traffic; inadequate mode segregated facilities; limited
enforcement of road use. Moreover, there is insufficient technical capacity to
undertake needed traffic impact analysis, circulation plans, and safety
analysis.



Fragmented Policy-Making. Policy-making within the sector suffers from poor
institutional coordination and low technical capacity to support decision-
making.
The urban transport problems found in Liaoning are not uncommon in China. In
many cities, the main issues facing the urban transport sector in China stem
from increasing motorization of the vehicle fleet, (fueled by rising incomes
and industrial policies which promote the development of the domestic auto
industry), combined with rapid urbanization and inefficient public transport.
Increasing motor vehicle use is leading to worsening traffic congestion,
environmental degradation and increases in accidents in urban areas. In
response to the need to address these conditions comprehensively, a symposium
was held in Beijing in late 1995, to discuss China's Urban Transport
Development Strategy\1, sponsored by the Ministry of Construction, Ministry of
Finance, the People's Bank of China, the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank. Considerable agreement resulted from this event bout the actions and
reforms needed to promote balanced and sustainable development of China's
urban transport systems.
Project Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to improve urban transport system
quality and productivity to facilitate economic and social development. Within
this overall objective, the project will focus on more limited, but
achievable, targets, including (a) the alleviation of infrastructure
bottlenecks, (b) improved road maintenance, (c) improved safety and
operational efficiency of the road network, (d) increased efficiency and
effectiveness of public transport services, (e) environmental sustainability
of project investments and and (f) strengthened local capacity in urban
transport system planning, development and management. Specific and
monitorable objectives will be developed during preparation.
Project Benefits
Benefits are expected to accrue to the project in four principal ways: (a)
improved passenger and freight traffic conditions and reduced traffic
congestion in and around the city centers, (b) improved environmental
conditions (including safety), (c) improved quality and operating efficiency
of public transport services resulting from priority treatment and improved
management of bus services, and (d) increased institutional capacity to manage
the city transport system. The economic evaluation would focus on changes in
travel time and cost brought about by the project for motorized users and the
quality of the travel environment for non-motorized users.
Project Risks
Three main project risks are identified in the project, along with actions to
mitigate them. First, to counter the risks of generated traffic in the
project, studies of parking and vehicle emissions control will be undertaken
to develop appropriate policies and strategies in these areas. Next, to
ensure the balanced and successful implementation of project investments,
public transport and traffic management studies will commence at the start of
the implementation period. Finally, commitments will be sought, and technical
assistance offered, on the continued reform of public transport and road
maintenance arrangements.
Project Description
Six project components have been provisionally identified with Liaoning for
further preparation, as follows:
- 2-



Infrastructure construction. All three cities have identified specific highway
components for inclusion in the project based on city development plans, as a
means to address existing congestion and develop capacity for future growth.
These include development of high-grade facilities in the road network,
improving connectivity through the provision of missing links and better rail
crossings, and general road upgrading, .
Traffic Management and Safety (TMS). This component seeks to improve the
amenity, efficiency, and safety of the road systems in the three cities. A
major emphasis of this component is to separate modal traffic and develop
integrated bus priority, non-motorized and general road networks. As such, the
component includes activities in road channelization, junction re-design,
signalization and control, enforcement, bus corridor development, and road
safety.
Public Transport Improvements. The objectives of this component are to improve
the quality and financial viability of public transport services, principally
the existing municipal bus systems but also the Anshan trams. Municipal public
transport services are the subject of much debate in China at the present
time, and municipal experiments in reform and restructuring, including the
introduction of private sector competition, are being encouraged from Beijing,
and undertaken in all three project cities. This component seeks to develop
public transport services and guide the reform process in the three cities,
through investments in bus corridors, equipment, and construction of depots
and terminals, as appropriate.
Street Maintenance. All three cities suffer from inadequate street maintenance
to the extent of impeding the smooth and safe flow of traffic. Poor street
maintenance also leads to economic losses through eroded infrastructure. A
component combining institutional development and investment in improved
equipment with technical assistance and training is proposed to provide the
necessary support to sustain adequate street maintenance levels. The
establishment of appropriate funding for street maintenance programs is viewed
as a pre-condition for project investment in major highway infrastructure.
Technical Assistance. Technical assistance (TA) would be required to support
the implementation of all project components identified above. In addition,
other TA is proposed to assist (a) project tendering and construction
management, (b) development of a motor vehicle emissions strategy, and (c)
planning public transport priority and traffic control schemes, and (d)
development of a parking control strategy, and (e) studies to support
sustainable maintenance and public transport development.
Project Financing
A World Bank loan of $150 will be made to finance total project costs of $386
million.
Project Implementation
The local arrangements for, and local ownership of, the project development
and preparation process are particularly strong. On behalf of a Liaoning
Project Leading Team, LUCRPO have overall responsibility for organizing the
project preparation. They are very familiar with Bank requirements since they
are administering two other Bank projects in Liaoning Province, and enjoy
strong support at the highest level of the provincial government. Special
project offices, each with some technical staff, have been set up in each of
-3 -



the three cities to coordinate the inputs of all the city agencies involved.
These local agencies are represented on the Project Leading Team, and include:
Planning Committees, Financial Bureaus, Construction Commissions,
Environmental Protection Bureaus, Auditing Bureaus and Public Security
Bureaus. The project offices have also established links with the Public
Utility Bureaus (public transport). Transportation Management Committees have
additionally be established to guide urban transport policies during
implementation.
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability will depend on the quality of project implementation,
including project impact mitigation measures, the success of institutional
reforms and the adequacy of available finance to support ongoing project
operating and maintenance costs. Continued reforms in public transit, road
maintenance and sector coordination are especially critical to ensure long-
term benefits of the project. Sustainability will also depend in part upon the
compatibility of local land use planning and pricing policies, which are
outside of the project's direct scope.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
Bank-wide, the following lessons from previous urban transport assistance have
been identified: (a) institutional reform is critical to obtaining sustainable
improvement, and demonstrated commitment to these reforms must be obtained
prior to project implementation; (b) there must be a commitment to an overall
transport strategy; (c) counterpart funding must be assured; (d) financial
mechanisms must be identified to support proposed Government expenditures
and/or subsidies; (e) capacity building is important through a combination of
appropriate training and technical assistance; and (f) an integrated approach
to transport planning is required.
Issues of financing [items (c) and (d) above] have not arisen on urban
transport projects in China, but the other points do apply. More specifically,
implementation of previous Bank-financed urban transport projects in China has
indicated that: (a) municipalities have strong capability in civil works
design and construction, often requiring little Bank assistance; (b)
involuntary resettlement is normally well planned and managed, (c) techniques
for environmental analysis are fairly well developed, but there is little
experience in carrying the findings through into civil works design or the
design of coherent motor vehicle pollution reduction strategies; (d)
techniques for transport planning and investment evaluation (operational,
environmental, economic and financial) are in their infancy and as yet provide
an uncertain foundation for transport development programs; (e) traffic
management is mostly seen in terms of equipment installation (traffic signals
and monitoring cameras) with little recognition of the importance of traffic
management planning (defining road hierarchies, defining and designing road
user priority schemes, designing junction layouts) or the need for inter-
agency coordination; and (f) reform and restructuring of municipal bus
operations is complex and must be managed as part of the overall municipal
reform process.
The overall characteristics of project implementation -- strong on civil
works, weaker on institutional aspects -- are shared with many other
infrastructure projects in China. In particular, the move to the market,
municipal reform, rapid economic growth, and the recent advent of the motor
car in large numbers, is confronting urban planners and city leaders with a
range of unprecedented problems which make institutional reforms both pressing
but also hard to accomplish.
-4-



Poverty Category
Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
The project is proposed as environmental Category A with environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) required for all infrastructure construction subcomponents.
EIA and EAP have been prepared for all three project cities. Some of the
components would involve involuntary resettlement for which Resettlement
Action Plans have been prepared.
Program Objective Category
The Program Objective Category is environmentally sustainable development. The
Poverty Category is not applicable to this project.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 5 -



